I want to call to order the September 21st, 2021 City Council. Recording in progress. Okay, let's start again. I want to call to order the September 21st, 2021 City Council meeting. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Here. Petty? Petty. Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Gutierrez? Here.
 Jones. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, thank you all. The first order of business we have tonight is the Consent Agenda.
 Number one, approval of the August 24th, 2021 Special City Council Meeting Minutes and the September 7th, 2021 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $413,169 to appropriate additional funding for the purchase of jet fuel through the end of 2021.
 Number three, a resolution authorized the mayor to sign a construction contract with Emory Saffron Sons Incorporated in the amount of $5,565,491.44.
 for the runway pavement and lighting rehabilitation project at great field to authorize the mayor to execute task order number three with garver llc in the amount of 235 000 for construction phase services to approve project contingency in the amount of six hundred and thirteen thousand five hundred and eighty five dollars and forty four cents and to prove budget adjustment
 4. A resolution to authorize the application for an 80-20 Arkansas Department of Aeronautics grant in the amount of $352,181.75 to fund the rehabilitation of the fuel farm.
 Number five, a resolution authorized the acceptance of a state drug crime enforcement and prosecution grant for state funding of the Fort Judicial District Drug Task Force in the amount of $91,319 and to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign all necessary documents to receive the grant funds.
 Number six, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to convey a 2,494 square foot general underground utility easement to Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation and Ozarks Go LLC to provide electrical and data service across the western side of Centennial Park.
 Number seven, a resolution to authorize the use of existing cooperative purchasing agreements or bids through the Arkansas Office of State Procurement, City of Federal Purchasing Division, or Sourcewell, as well as local dealer match pricing for the purchase of new vehicles and options on an as-needed basis and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read.
 Oh no. I move that the consent agenda is read. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Jones? Yes. Warren?
 Okay, thank you all very much. Let's move along to unfinished business. Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-056, located at 2699 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard for approximately 0.43 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and RA Residential Agricultural to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 Okay. So moved. Guess we will leave it right where it is then. Or else I can just read the body. That makes it pretty simple. Okay. Be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and RA Residential Agricultural to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial. And Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Now, Kit, that officially puts it on the second reading, correct? It is now on the second reading. All right.
 Jonathan, I believe you have this. I do, Mayor. Thank you. Jonathan Kurth with the City's Development Services Department. I don't have any new information or updates on this item. As a brief reminder, the Council chose to leave this item on the first reading since the applicant was unable to attend the meeting.
 staff is recommending denial of the request. However, the planning commission did forward it in recommending approval. And I'm happy to take any questions you may have. And it appears Julian Aponte is here as the applicant. So the staff did not recommend the rezoning, did you say? Yes, mayor. Okay, okay. But the applicant like to speak for the council. They have 10 minutes. Hello, are you guys able to hear me? Yes.
 Okay, thank you for your time. So, yeah, so when I spoke with the council previously, we understood that it would be an uphill battle with the flood ordinance to be able to get any kind of approval.
 However, we know that it has to take a first step and we are going with what the city of Fayetteville is looking to do, which is, you know, trying to continue to develop and have future plans for the area that we're at. Having it as agricultural residential. Right.
 It's a very outdated zoning, especially since that area is a very high commercial area. They have houses in the back, but that whole land is not being used for agriculture anymore.
 We know that it's going to be a lot of process, but that's why the rules are where they are. We know that we have to obey those rules in order to do anything further, but the first step we know has to be to rezone it. We can't be able to do anything unless it is rezoned and then be able to go on with the next steps to follow the ordinance that is in place currently.
 Our neighbors have already done that. They are also on that area where it has the flooding. And, you know, they were able to get their property rezoned and then follow the proper procedures to be able to get it fully up to code. And we will be following those footsteps as well. But we believe the first step is to be able to get it commercial. I think that's pretty much all I have to say on that subject. I don't know if there's any questions for me.
 OK, Jonathan, would you care to explain why the staff did not support this? You have 10 minutes.
 Certainly, Mayor. What it came down to was that the property that's being proposed to be rezoned is fully encumbered by floodplain. We did not feel, despite the fact that Fayetteville does indeed have some fairly robust standards for floodplain development, we did not feel that it was appropriate to even set the land use entitlement stage to allow development there, even under our existing standards. It's at the headwaters of a protected stream. It's in FEMA floodplain.
 And we did not feel that it was appropriate and that perhaps could not even be developed sensitively with those standards in place. Okay. All right. What questions do we have from the city council on this? No? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak.
 You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on the topic. The topic is the rezoning at Martin Luther King Boulevard. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those that are participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those here in person in the council chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom?
 Mayor, there's no one. Okay. Who would like to address this from the Council, I mean from the Chamber? And the topic is the rezoning on MLK. Anyone? Okay. I will bring it back to the City Council. This is on the second reading. This is an ordinance. What discussion or action does the Council wish to take? Mayor, we'd like to make a few comments.
 You know, at some point we've got to say no more development within the flood zone. And this is at the headwaters of a stream.
 We, climate change is among us. We're seeing it every single day with huge storm events, larger hurricanes than we've ever seen. And I will not be supporting passing this. I think we really start, even though, as Jonathan said, we have some robust standards, I don't think those standards are strong enough.
 And at some point we just have to start planning more diligently for the climate change that is going to be upon us before we know it. Thank you. Okay. I'm also going to be against this. I didn't really hear anything from the applicant other than we need to do this to do this. That's not really a good plan.
 If we're going to be putting high density, which we need in the city, in floodplains, then we need a plan. So this would need to be a PZD for me if we're going to put in a floodplain. So I would be against this. Okay. I also cannot support this. Being at the headwaters of the White River, so it's important to go ahead and protect that stream the best we can at river and floodplain.
 This is some important property that helps protect that. So, and I'm with council member Turk. I think that at some point we have to recognize that if it's in a floodplain, it might be more hazardous now than it was in the past due to climate change and we're seeing it. So it's hard to refute in the way I look at things. I know some people don't agree,
 But, yeah, I can't support this. I support what the city staff put forward. Okay. Any other discussion? This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading right now. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Jones? Yes. That passed.
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-56, located at 2699 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, for approximately 0.43 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and RA Residential Agricultural to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Care, would you please call the roll? Canyon. Okay, I vote no if I don't want it to go, right? You vote no. Okay.
 I just want to be sure sometimes I screw up believe it or not. No. Yeah. Okay. Petty? Scroggins? No. Fudge? No. Turk? No. Pittsburgh? No. Gutierrez? Jones? No. Okay, thank you all. Let's go on to number two.
 A resolution to grant the appeal of Councilmember Sarah Bunch, Holly Hershberg, and DeAndre Jones and approve an amendment to constitutional use, I'm sorry, permit CUP 08-2908 to authorize Vaughn Recycling to legally expand its recycling activities to 1236 South School Avenue. Jonathan, I believe you have this.
 Mayor, thank you. Before beginning, I did want to advise the council that the applicant has formally asked that this be re-tabled for the next two weeks.
 I do have, I believe that the, Tripp Halbert as the applicant's representative is present there should the council elect to not table it and move forward with a request to hear from the applicant. I don't have any new information or updates to offer. Thank you. So the applicant is asking to table this for two weeks. This is the recycling one, correct?
 That is correct. Okay, sorry to interrupt. So I've been driving in the area, and I know there was some discussion about kind of how this looks. Most of that road looks about the same. So I don't know if we want to have a discussion about the whole road in general because there's dump trucks across the street. Like the whole area kind of looks different.
 pretty rough. And so there was a council member at the kind of the last meeting that mentioned possibly talking about them going to the industrial area. Well, that whole street looks about like that. So I'm wondering if we can have a have that part of the conversation if we're gonna table it. You know, because I don't want to punish them if they look kind of rough.
 And the whole street looks pretty close to the same. So sorry that wasn't very articulate, but hopefully I got the idea across. Yeah, I do believe that maybe it was Jonathan that
 And Jonathan, I know you will correct me if I have this wrong, but someone said that looking at the entire street, this looked was kind of a seem to be an appropriate use for this area because there were a lot of other uses down there that were, you know, like Sloan said, with dump trucks and there's a tire repair shop and.
 You know, some things like that. You know, I may have that wrong, Jonathan, but I think that stuck in my mind that someone said that it seemed pretty, that as far as the look of it, it looked like it fit with the neighborhood a little bit.
 I believe Council Member Petty asked if it was staff's assertion that it was compatible or not. We feel that it is currently compatible. I think our issue and why staff was not able to support expanding the conditional use permit is because the business had been operating outside of its allowances for almost a decade. We felt it was perhaps appropriate to designate.
 to demonstrate that they could operate within the allowance of their conditional use permit first. But we did, I guess you do remember correctly, we did feel that it is compatible with the way South School currently looks in the area. Perfect, thank you. Okay, so what we have before you is the applicant is asked to table this for two weeks. I move to table for two weeks. I second.
 Okay. All right. We have a motion to second the table for two weeks. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Okay. All right, let's move along to new business. Number one, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a three-year contract with the Grasser LLC to provide third-party reporting services for fire protection systems in the city of Federal pursuing 294.06 of the Federal City Code, KIPP.
 Whereas on June 15th of 2021, the City Council passed Ordinance 6447, enacting Section 94.06 Third-Party Inspections and Reporting System, which requires inspection reports for automatic fire sprinklers, commercial kitchen hoods, and fire alarm systems to be provided to the City through a third-party inspection reporting system. And whereas the Fire Department is requesting a bid waiver for the contract with Briser LLC,
 because BRICER does not require companies to purchase proprietary software in order to use the reporting system, and other companies would charge the City of Fayetteville to use the system as well as require software purchase. And whereas BRICER is the only vendor that will process, email, print, and mail first-class notifications to building owners, which follows the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code requirements.
 and whereas Briser is the only vendor that will require reports to be submitted in the prescribed form and format pursuant to the Fayetteville Fire Department and the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code, and whereas Briser's reporting service is being used by the Springdale and Rogers Fire Departments, which will be efficient for the companies reporting to them to use the same system for reporting to the Fayetteville Fire Department,
 and whereas the city will not incur any expense for using the compliance engine software, and all fees will be paid by the third party inspectors subject to the fee cap provided in section 9406E. Now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas section one.
 that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign a three-year contract with Reiser LLC to provide third-party reporting services for fire protection systems at a cost of $15 per system to be paid by third-party inspectors pursuant to Section 9406,
 third-party inspections and reporting system of the Fayetteville City Code. Chief. Thank you, Mayor and Council. So this, as Kit just described, was passed back in June, June 15th, and it allowed us to go out and use a third-party company for our life safety, life and fire safety reporting systems.
 As Kit said, there is no cost to the city. This fee is already charged by most of our fire safety vendors that do the inspections. So there's really no additional fee to anybody. Mainly we're wanting to enter into an exclusive contract with Brycer. Chief Ashley, our fire marshal, he looked at all the vendors available and they offered the best program and that's why we're asking that you support this.
 I'll be happy to answer any questions and I have the fire marshal here if you'd like to talk to them. Okay, what questions do we have from the City Council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. The topic is the Brasser contract for
 So, please no rude behavior. Give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person in the council chambers. After that, who do we have on Zoom, Lisa? Mayor, there's no one on Zoom. Okay, who would like to address us from the public on the bracer contract? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is an ordinance. What discussion or action would the council like to take?
 If there's no comments, Mayor, I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Adjourn us the way for petty bidding and authorized Mayor Jordan to sign a three-year contract with Briser LLC to provide third-party reporting services for fire protection systems in the city of Fayetteville pursuant to section 94.06 of the Fayetteville City Code. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Carriage Police Call Room. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. I announce the waive competitive bidding and authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a three-year contract with Briceford LLC to provide third-party reporting services for fire protection systems in the City of Fayetteville pursuant to section 94.06 of the Fayetteville City Code. Okay. What final comments do we have from the City Council? Let's try to do this right. Kerridge, please call the roll. Kenyon?
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 21-059, located at 740 West Stone Street for approximately 0.24 acres from RMF 40, residential multifamily, four units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate, or KIPP.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RMF 40, Residential Multifamily 40 Units Per Acre, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville reflected zoning change provided in section 1 Jonathan Thank You mayor This property is west of downtown Fayetteville. It includes two parcels of land on the north side of Stone Street about one block east of Fayetteville high school between Hill Avenue to the east and Duncan to the west and
 It has remained undeveloped since the single family home on the property was demolished in recent years. The request before council is to rezone the property from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units breaker to RIU, residential intermediate urban. The applicant has made the request, in their words, to develop more contextually scaled residential homes.
 When considering the request from a land use standpoint, staff did find it to be compatible. There is a, as you can see on the map here, the allowance that the zoning entitlements in the areas for very high density and intensity residential development. RMF 40 allows everything from single family to large multifamily buildings.
 But if you've ever been in the area, you know that that's not necessarily the character of the area. There's a fairly diverse mixture of different types of housing.
 And I found that the Riu zoning district more readily speaks to the existing land uses in the area than the existing zoning the residential intermediate urban zoning district does attempt to break down building sizes With with height and bulk allowances that are more similar to what you see in the neighborhood minutes mostly single-family homes from a long range
 planning perspective. Staff did find the request to be consistent with our long range plans and our planning tools. The city neighborhood area encourages higher densities and higher intensities. This property is very close to the high school, the main university campus, trails.
 parks a number of things it's got acts ready access to transit as well all these combined seem like a very complimentary request to to develop more housing in close proximity to these amenities
 Staff has not found any issues with the request and we are supporting it. The Planning Commission agreed and forwarded it unanimously to the City Council. Comment was fairly brief at the Commission, mostly just regarding the compatibility of the request with existing land uses and adopted plans similar to what staff found.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And to date, staff has not received any public comment throughout the item. And I believe Sashi Sundaram is available online to take any questions as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council? They have 10 minutes. Okay. What questions do we have from the city council? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on the topic the topic is the rezoning at 740 West Stone Street please no rude behavior give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are present in the council chambers after that who would like to address this buzzer mayor no one has their hand up okay
 who would like to address this in the council chambers okay i'm going to bring it back to the city council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading so what discussion or action would the council like to take and so mayor i just want to let you know that the audio is not coming through very well you're not able to hear me it cut off almost all of your sentence okay well let me start again
 This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. So what discussion and action items would the council like to take? Did that come through? Cool. Maybe the mask kind of muffling things a little bit. I move to suspend rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. And in order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-59 located at 740 West Stone Street for approximately .24 acres from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 this is the second read this it's an ordinance it's on the second reading of what discussion and action items would the council like to take uh i moved to go to third and final reading second the motion in the second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call the role i have council member scroggins as the first and who will be the second i will be second okay thank you okay kenyon yes
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, and you're going to resolve that property described and resolving petition R. Z. N. 21 dash 059 located at 740 West stone street.
 for approximately 0.24 acres from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. What final comments do we have in the council? Care which please call the roll. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number three. An ordinance rezoning that property described rezoning petition RZN 21-060 located at 699 West Wheelock Street for approximately 1.43 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. Kip.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville Reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 now. Okay, Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in South Fayetteville, just southeast of I-540's intersection with South School, West Willock, where the property can be found as a dead end street that extends eastward from South School, going gradually uphill to a dead end. The property in question includes two parcels on the south side of Willock. They're currently developed with a single family home.
 Otherwise, they're mostly characterized by a large area of tree canopy, of which the majority of the property is within the hillside hilltop overlay district. The request, as Mr. Williams noted, is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RSF8.
 When looking at this request, staff did find the proposal to be compatible. Both the RSF 8 and existing RSF 4 zoning districts allow single family homes as the only by right use, with the exception of the properties just north of this one.
 all properties on the street are single-family zoned with a variety of lot sizes. Staff felt that rezoning the property to RSF8 would allow a little bit more, allow sensitivity to the existing land use and pattern in the area, while also giving some more flexibility to a property that's in the hillside hilltop, where narrower lot sizes would allow
 uh buildings to be placed more towards the front of the property perhaps space back from the property if necessary to to avoid trees given the conventional setbacks of the rsf zoning district
 When looking at it, the request from a long-range plan perspective, staff's findings were somewhat more mixed. The future land use map indicates that this property is designated as a city neighborhood area, which is intended, of course, for higher levels of intensity and activity and density. But the infill score for the property is fairly low. The three it earns is partially because of that future land use map designation and also because of the...
 existing water and sewer on the street, which are generally considered baseline necessities for development.
 Other issues staff considered was a somewhat active recent history of rezonings for a street at this part of Fayetteville. Again, to the north side of the street, there's a former church that was rezoned to RIE 12, residential intermediate 12 units per acre some years ago. Staff, the commission, and the council all supported that request.
 Immediately to the east, a request to rezone a duplex to RMF 12, residential multifamily 12 units breaker, was not supported by staff, but the planning commission and council both saw fit to support it. Even more recently, there was a request to rezone the church again to RIU, residential intermediate urban. The planning commission ultimately denied that request and it was not appealed.
 and so that brings the request today which again staff found to be an incremental increase and in line with those recent approvals the other consideration of course is infrastructure on willock the council may recall from the recent request but it is again a dead end street it is fairly narrow the asphalt's uh
 not in the best of condition, but staff did find that again, the minor increase in potential density did not represent a burden that could compromise the streets ability to serve the existing residents or future ones. All told, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The planning commission concurred voting eight to zero to forward it to the city council.
 As I noted earlier, the Commission felt a similar or agreed to the notion that allowing narrower lots would accommodate the terrain and would be in line with other rezoning actions that have occurred in the area. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. Staff has not had any public comment to date. And I believe I have Brian Teague available. I think he's online as the applicant for the item. Thank you.
 Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay, what questions do we have from the city council? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic, which is the 699 West Wheelock rezoning. Please, no rude behavior. Give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those that are in the city council chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Lisa.
 Mayor, there's a phone number that ends in 775 that had its hand up right after you asked about the applicant, and I just want to check to see if that person still wants to speak. Okay, if that is the applicant, we will allow the applicant to speak for the council. They've put their hand back down, so I think they changed their mind. Okay, all right. So do we have anybody else on set? All right, who would like to address this from the public here tonight in the council chambers? Yes.
 okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what discussion or action items would the council like to take tonight if there's uh no questions or comments i move i move that we go to the second reading second we have a motion second to go to the second reading here would you please call the run canyon yes grogan yes bench yes third
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-060 located at 699 West Willock Street for approximately 1.43 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre.
 Okay, this is an ordinance. It's on the second reading what action items or discussions with the council like to have I'm every since been the rules and go to the third and final reading do we have a second I said it I have motion Second to go to the third and final read care which police call the roll Kenyon yes Scroggins yes and Yes Eric Yes Hertzberg yes Yeah, yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN-21-060, located at 699 West Wellock Street, for approximately 1.43 acres, from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. What final comments do we have on the City Council? Caravans, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Herzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number four. An Ordinance to Rezone that Property Describing Zoning Petition RZN 21-061 located at 1428 East Hospital Road for approximately 1.85 acres from RSF4 residential single family unit four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Kipp?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo, from RSF-4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is southeast of downtown. It's on the south slope of Mount Sequoia and includes a parcel just north of Curtis Avenue's intersection with Huntsville Road. It's currently developed as a single family home and an outbuilding.
 It does, similar to the last property, it is fairly sloped with a significant amount of tree canopy. Different from the last request though, only the small portion of the property is designated as hilltop, hillside overlay district in the upper northeast corner of the property. The request is to rezone from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 Staff found that the request is compatible with surrounding land uses. There's a very wide mixture of building types, zonings, and lot sizes in this area, from very, very large lot single-family homes further up the slope of Sequoia to various mix of attached residential housing, both to the east on Fifth Street, south on Erica, and the apartment buildings on Private Silverado Drive to the southeast.
 When it comes to long range plans, staff found the request to align with the future land use maps designation of the property as a residential neighborhood area. This designation is intended to support a mixture of residential uses. The RIE zoning district does allow single, two, three and four family dwellings. I know I've mentioned it on a previous request, but it bears repeating that the RIE zoning districts, one of its main intents when it was created was to allow for residential use
 attached residential dwelling that's of a bulk in size and height comparable to the kind of existing single-family homes you see in several parts of Fayetteville. When it comes to the property's infill score and whether it's appropriate infill, it is a bit more of an edge case. At this location it does have good fire response, access to water, sewer, parks and transit.
 that those only score a five, however. Staff felt that being on a major connection street like Huntsville Road and in such close proximity to downtown ultimately carried the request staff size and that we did find it to be consistent with our long range plans.
 Some other issues that staff identified in looking at this is the limits of the rezoning. I did want to clarify some incorrect information I shared at the agenda session. I think I said that the limits of the request were cutting off the rezoning before it hit a ravine on the western portion of the property.
 What was actually correct is the western portion of the property was subdivided or created into a completely separate parcel. And so while it was not false that the dividing line is that ravine, it was in fact two separate pieces of property. I just wanted to clarify that. I apologize for my confusion on that.
 another item worth noting is that this portion of Huntsville Road does have a fair amount of accidents for for its designation as our classification of a road staff did have concerns about this but ultimately felt that many of the street changes in the larger area we're gonna have a significant effect on traffic flow throughout the
 This portion of Fayetteville Highway 16 going along 15th Street is having significant widening to handle more volume to traffic. Similarly, the Park Meadows project further to the west is improving Morningside Drive to make it more capable of carrying traffic than it was before. And between those two, staff anticipates that traffic will disperse more throughout the area rather than being concentrated on Huntsville Road like it is today.
 Lastly, we did receive some public comments in advance of the Planning Commission meeting. These were largely inquiries, curious about what was being requested, no statements of opposition or support. At the Planning Commission meeting itself, there was one resident who did express support for it, but did feel that the area needed some sort of coherent vision and wanted to encourage the city to consider a neighborhood or corridor plan along this portion of Huntsville
 And with that, again, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission agreed, voting unanimously 8-0 to forward it to the City Council, recommending approval. Their major comments were similar to what I already said. They felt it was compatible with the surrounding area and the potential development, and also that the traffic issues that are seen today will likely be resolved by area street modifications. And I'm happy to take any questions the Council has. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Jonathan? Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, I believe the applicant is here online. It's Chris Bakunas. I'm sorry, Mayor. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Good evening, Chris Bakunis here with McClellan Consulting Engineers. I don't have anything further to add, but I am happy to answer any questions if you have them. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions for the applicant or for Jonathan on this from the council? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. The topic is the rezoning on 1428 East Huntsville Road. Please, no rude behavior. Give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. And then those that are in person in the chamber after that. Is there anyone by Zoom?
 No, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone here in the chambers like to address this on this rezoning? Yes, please. Now you may take your mask down while you speak at the podium. My name is Dr. James William Smith. I'm from highway 12759 South Highway 265 in Prairie Grove, Arkansas and I just have a statement I'd like to read. We hold these truths to be self-evident
 that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by our Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.
 We stand here and pledge allegiance to the flag, one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. However, you seem to have forgotten that we are one nation under God. Last week, you violated my liberty to choose what is right for my body and replace justice with injustice. Okay, Mr. Smith, Mr. Smith, you have to stay on topic. Today I come before you and before this crowd of witnesses to serve you notice that you do not represent the people of Basel.
 You do not represent this great nation arresting me to make mass vaccinated, socially distanced individuals feel safe. Demonstrates that you don't look at the mass workers that your vaccines work or that your social distancing policies work. The mass are nothing more than a control inside your own body. Mr. Smith, you'll have to remove yourself from the podium.
 Okay, it's time to... Please shut the microphone off. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 and the pursuit of happiness will not be tolerated. Your abuses of authority and violation of basic human rights ministries of this city council and the mayor are resorted to despotism, and as such, it's our duty to throw off such government and to provide new guards for our future security. So I'm demanding that the mask ordinance be dropped, that mandatory testing of asymptomatic people be dropped. Any future... Mr. Smith, Dr. Smith, it's time. Okay, it's time to...
 We will not comply. As a result of your action, I will be filing a lawsuit in federal court to prevent such tyranny from taking hold in our nation. God bless the people of the United States. God bless. Okay. Who would like to hear him speak? Okay. No, no, no. Okay. Okay. Who would like to address us on the rezoning? Okay.
 Okay, I guess we don't have anybody else in the chamber that would like to address us on the rezoning. Yes, please. I missed the beginning. What do you need from me? My name or what? Yes, please give us your name and address. I'm right here in the beginning, sorry. My name is Paul Caldwell. I live in Sodom Springs. Do you need my address exactly? No, that's fine. I just wanted to continue what he was saying already. No, you may not.
 You have to step down from the podium. This is about the rezoning over on East Huntsman. This is a limited public forum, and so you can only speak to the agenda item that is before the council at this point, not on something that's not before the council. Thank you. Who else would like to address this on the rezoning? All righty, Dan. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion items or action would the council like to take?
 Are we on the first or second reading? You know, I kind of lost that for a moment. I believe we're on the first reading. I would like to move that we go to the second reading. Yes, thank you. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerwich Police, call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe rezoning petition RZN 21-061, located at 1428 East Huntsville Road for approximately 1.85 acres, from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 Okay, this is on the second reading. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the council? I would like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, inscribe a rezoning petition, RZN 21-061, located at 1428 East Huntsville Road, for approximately 1.85 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RIU residential intermediate urban. What final comments do we have from the council? All right. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes.
 Fudge? Yes. Keep turning it the wrong way. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to number five.
 An ordinance to rezone that property inscribing zoning petition RZN 21-062 located west of the thousand block south Hollywood Avenue for approximately .83 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, exhibit A, and the legal description, exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from C2, Thoroughfare Commercial, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in southwest Fayetteville, just a little ways southeast of I-49's intersection with Martin Luther King. As you head south on Hollywood Avenue past the McDonald's and Fire Station, it is sandwiched behind the several single family homes on South Hollywood and the strip center behind it where Tyson currently has offices along with the locked plumbing supply building.
 It's an undeveloped, somewhat unusually shaped property with a small amount of frontage on Best Way Street to the south and Parnell Drive to the northeast. It's most readily characterized by the trail frontage. A portion of the Sallagee Trail runs along the property's street frontage on Best Way
 The request before the council tonight is to rezone it from C2, thoroughfare commercial, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Staff has not received any shared development plans, either conceptually or in detail, to share with the council. Staff did find the request or does find the request to be compatible with surrounding land uses. RIU can act as a good transition or a good transition.
 or intervening district between lower density uses, such as the single-family homes on Hollywood and those on Bestway and some of the more intense commercial uses, like those found in the strip center to the north and west. RAU, again, allows single, two-, three-, and four-family homes. There is a conditional use allowance, of course, for some commercial uses as well, which could be compatible in this area, given the commercial uses to the north end.
 from a long use plan, long range plan perspective. Staff found that the request is very consistent with our documents. Our future land use map calls this property out as urban center area. This is the most dense and intense, or densely and intensely anticipated area of development in the city. It has a fairly high infill score. Again, there is trail on the frontage, has access, albeit on the other side of 49 to Finger Park.
 Ramey Junior High is just north on the other side of MLK. Both transit routes serve this area, which is perhaps unsurprising given the large amounts of student housing to the south and east. And of course, it has access to water and sewer.
 and the city has been working on that. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point.
 much higher levels of entitlement for retail and restaurants, whereas the RAU zoning district does not allow that. It's my understanding that the applicant has asked for what they need in this instance, though, and staff does feel it is appropriate and we recommend in favor of that. The Planning Commission agreed, voting to forward it to Council 7-0. They felt it was an opportunity to develop a property that may otherwise remain underutilized, given its unusual location and shape.
 And with that, I'm happy to take questions. Staff has not received any public comment, and Chris Pakunis is also the applicant on this one, and he's attending online. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. I have no additional comment on this one as well, but I'm happy to answer any questions if you have them. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have for the applicant or staff on the rezoning on 1000 Block South Hollywood?
 Mayor, I have a question. This is such an unusually, unusual shaped property. I'm just kind of wondering, to the south you have the bike trail.
 And I see to the north, there's a road that comes in there, but this is such a long, slender piece of property. I'm just wondering kind of how that would be developed. And if, you know, we don't have a trail overlay plan yet, but Jonathan, would access be given on to the trail, to cross the trail potentially if we rezone this?
 Legally, the property has some right to access any adjoining street, and that does include Best Way Street across the trail, unless there was some agreement as a part of right-of-way dedication for the trail, which I'm not aware of and could not find when I was looking into that exact question. That's the only instance where we can really restrict those crossings of trails. Otherwise, the property, of course, the alternative would be to go north to Parnell Drive.
 Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the council? Okay. All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one. Turn it to Mike. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. The topic is the rezoning on 1,000 residents.
 block south hollywood no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating what by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those that are in the city council chambers after that who do we have on zoom no one has their hand raised mayor okay anyone in the chambers would like to speak to us about the rezoning okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 This isn't ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion or action items would the council like to take? Anybody got any thoughts? What if there's no questions or comments? I move we go to the second reading Second we have a motion to say and go to the second reading care which police called row Kenyon. Yes Scroggins yes Turk yes
 harrisburg yes jones yes an orange to rezone that property described in reasoning petition rzn 21-062 located west of the 1000 block of south hollywood avenue for approximately 0.83 acres from c2 third fair commercial to riu residential intermediate urban okay what's the wishes the council here can we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carowinds Police, Calden Road. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-062 located west of the 1000 block of South Hollywood Avenue for approximately 0.83 acres from C2 TheraPair Commercial to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. What final comments do we have from the council? Mayor, I have a comment. Sure.
 You know, I bike through there all the time, and that's a really, really nice stretch of the trail that is really not broken up with, you know, cars accessing the trail on that north side. And I really think that we're going to have more issues like this where you're going to have potential breaks, you know.
 access issues that may cause safety hazards. And we're putting a lot of money into our trail system. And I would just encourage staff to work a little, work on a trail overlay plan so that we have some clear rules and guidance about issues that are gonna come up more frequently than they have in the past with this. So those are just my comments. Thank you. Okay.
 Any other final comments? Okay. Keravich, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's move to number six.
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 21-023 for property located at 793 West Dixon Street to vacate portions of Alley Right-of-Way.
 street right-of-way kit whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454 dash 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of an alley right-of-way and a street right-of-way are not required for corporate purposes now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the city of faithful Arkansas section 1
 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby vacates the portions of street and alley right-of-way as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's agenda memo
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached as a given A to the planning department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage to or relocation of existing utilities or existing facilities removed.
 shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, a general utility easement shall be dedicated over the vacated right-of-way for Whiteside Street to ensure existing utility infrastructure can be accessed and maintained. Okay, Jonathan?
 Thank you, Mayor. This right-of-way is located west of downtown. It includes a portion of Whiteside, which you see as the wider and bottom of this backwards-facing L. It also includes a portion of Alley Right-of-way, which currently bisects the University of Arkansas's Nanosciences, or Nanoengineering, I'm sorry, I forget which building, on the southern end of their main campus.
 If you're not familiar with Whiteside, it's currently effectively the southern boundary of the University of Arkansas's main campus, between that and Evergreen Cemetery.
 Well, it was dedicated as street right away in 1908. Staff does not have any indication necessarily that it has ever been used as street. In looking at aerial imagery and other records, the closest we can find is in the 1960s. It does look like there may have been some use of it. However, it could have just as easily been used.
 runoff of some sort down the hill if you've not visited the property it is a about a 20 slope running down from the existing dead end of whiteside on its western end and duncan at the bottom of the hill to put that into perhaps more visual terms if you're familiar with rock street just southwest of the city hall building it's approximately about as steep as that if it were to be built that is to say fairly steep and exceptionally steep even for fayetteville
 That said, you can see a more clear indication of where the right-of-way is now as it relates to the parking lot and the University of Arkansas's building. Again, the wider piece that runs east-west is the portion of Whiteside being proposed to be vacated, whereas the narrow piece is the alleyway that's currently a part of the University of Arkansas's parking lot there.
 The main issues for staff when evaluating any right away vacation is the potential that the right away represents for connection or connectivity. Again, and as my comments were not foreshadowing enough, we do not find that there is a lot of feasibility for it. The area is extremely steep and the connection that it could offer would not necessarily offer the benefits that already exist with Dixon to the north and Center to the south.
 Similarly, we don't feel that it will be keeping it in the public's interest to preserve this piece of right of way. Almost all or all the immediately adjoining property owners are the University of Arkansas. Evergreen Cemetery to the southeast is the other major user in the area.
 And we did hear some comments from them just today. They did have concern. They felt they misunderstood and thought the entire right-of-way was being vacated. When that was explained to them that it was just a portion of it, they did not express any opposition to the request.
 With that, staff has also received all the necessary consent documents from the franchise utilities and our city departments to consent to the right of way being vacated. As a result, we are recommending in favor of the vacation being approved.
 the Planning Commission felt at ease enough with it to put down their consent agenda and forwarded it to the City Council accordingly recommending in favor of the request and but that I'm available for any questions the council has and I believe I have Allen or Jay young Available as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay with the app can like to speak for the council you have ten minutes. I
 Yes, thank you. Jay Young with DCI. I have no further comments at this time, but am available if you have any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or staff? Okay. Let's take some public comment. If I get one turn to speak, you have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Okay.
 Yes, the topic is the vacation. Please no rude behavior. Give us your name and address. Zoom participants will be allowed to speak first and those that are in person in the chamber after that, who would like, is there anyone by Zoom? No, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone here that would like to speak to this that's in the chamber? Okay.
 I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What action or discussion would the council like to take? This is a vacation. Well, not exactly. Anyway. Don't all speak at once now. Yes. I know this is a... I move we approve the vacation. Well, we got to go to the second reading. Oh, I'm sorry. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Yes. Second. Thank you all. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 And New Orleans approved the AC 21-023 for property located at 793 West Dixon Street to vacate portions of an alley right-of-way and street right-of-way. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Care which police call the roll. Ginnion. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bench. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes.
 Jones. Yes. And your order is to approve VAC 21-023 for property located at 793 West Dixon Street to vacate portions of an alley right-of-way and street right-of-way. What final comments do we have in the council? Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Thurk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number seven. An ordinance to approve vacation 21-024 for property located at 959 East Dogwood Lane to vacate a portion of a general utility easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo.
 Section 2, that a copy of the ordinance duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Jonathan?
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is on the north side of Mount Sequoia property. As you can see in the aerial here, it's a dual frontage property. Fronts Dogwood Lane to the north and Missouri Way to the south.
 it was created as a part of a lot split in 2010 and the house was subsequently built on it in 2012 as a part of that 2010 lot split substantial areas of utility easement were dedicated around the property and you can see here where the existing house outline is and the proposal in brown where they'd like to build a deck which unfortunately
 with a significant area of utility easement, which is what's being proposed to be vacated today, tonight here in pink. Staff found it to be a pretty straightforward request. All the facilities
 relevant utilities have signed off and consented on it. And there's only the one condition of approval that Mr. Williams noted, that any damage or relocation of existing utilities in the easement are at the applicant or property owner's expense. We are recommending approval with the submittal of all that information. And I'm happy to take questions the council has. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the city council on this?
 and i'm sorry mayor the uh the applicant is uh i believe alan reed here uh virtually excuse me okay um would the applicant like to speak for the council you have 10 minutes
 uh yeah this is alan reed we concur with all the staff reports and i really don't have any other comments to add i will answer any questions though if you have any thank you okay thank you what questions do we have from the council for the applicant or staff do we need to add anything um so that the conditions are applied or does it automatically apply if we pass it
 i'm sorry uh can you repeat that sorry um because there's a condition of approval is is it automatic if it's passed that that's the condition that we approve or do we have to add that yes this is a standard condition or approval just to make sure that if there's any problems that come about because of this vacation that the developer or owner is asked that it will be the developers or owner's responsibility to pay for the any damage rather than someone else like the city
 okay thank you and i assume that the owner understands that oh yeah i'm sure okay so any other questions from the council okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic which is the vacation on dogwood lane
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Zoom participants will be allowed to speak first and those that are in the council chambers After that we have anyone by Zoom? No one on Zoom Mayor. Alrighty. Alright, I'm gonna bring it back to the City Council This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading what discussion or action items would the council like to take? If there's no questions or comments, I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Second. Okay, we have a motion, second to go to the second read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to approve DAC 21-024 for property located at 959 East Dogwood Lane to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. And so...
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carol would you please call the roll. Canyon. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turt. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes.
 And ordinance approved the AC 21-0 to 4 properly located at 959 East Dogwood Lane to vacate a portion of a general utility easement What final comments do we have from the council on this? Care which please call row Kenyon. Yes Scroggins yes, but yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes Jones yes
 Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number eight. An ordinance to approve Vacation 21-025, property located south of 240 East Rock Street, to vacate a portion of a water sewer right-of-way grant kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following inscribed portion of a water sewer right-of-way grant is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of water sewer right-of-way grant as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Section 3 this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities Shall be at the owner developers expense Okay, Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is immediately east of downtown Fayetteville and just southeast of the Yvonne Richardson Center. It includes two parcels just south of Rock Street. The easements in question tonight total about 2,200, 2,300 square feet, which you can see here in the aerial image.
 The property abuts Ralph Buddy Hayes Park to the west, and there are actually three easements on the property, which you can see here. The first of which is shown in yellow on the northernmost parcel, which extends southward as a separate easement at red. And then there is a third easement on the property, which you see here in blue. For the purposes of the request tonight, the yellow and red easements are those being considered and proposed for vacation.
 The blue easement, which is the larger of the three, is still, is not being proposed. There's currently an eight inch sanitary sewer main that runs within it.
 As far as evaluating the request, it's a water and sewer easement, so the consent of the utility department was the only one necessary, and they have provided that. And accordingly, staff is recommending approval of the request with the standard easement vacation condition of approval that any damage or relocation will be at the developer's expense. As Mr. Williams read in the ordinance, that is a part of that, or as it's written today.
 I'm happy to take questions. And I don't see her in attendance online, but I believe Tommy Flowers Davis is maybe there in person as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Yes, would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have ten minutes.
 Good evening, Mayor, Councilmembers. I'm Tommy Flowers-Davis and of course I'm here asking your request to vacate the two lines that are in question tonight. I don't have any additional input. I do support what the Planning Commission has presented this evening and I'm available for additional questions. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the City Council for the applicant or for staff? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, which is the vacation of Rock Street. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address.
 uh those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those participating in person in the council chambers after that do we have anyone on zoom no mayor okay all right um anyone from the council chambers would like to speak to us on this topic okay gonna bring it back to the city council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading
 What action items are discussing with the council like to have? I would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Inyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Butch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Jones. Yes. An ordinance shall approve VAC 21-025 for property located south of 240 East Rock Street to vacate a portion of a water sewer right-of-way grant. I would like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 Yes. Herk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. And your order is to approve AAC 21-025 for a property located south of 240 East Rock Street to make it a portion of a water sewer right-of-way grant. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council on care which police call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Ter? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jem? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number nine. An ordinance to annex that property describing annexation petition ANX21-002 submitted by Kutak Rock LLC on behalf of North Star Construction.
 for property located at 1287 North 54th Street containing approximately 10.25 acres kit. Whereas North Star Construction has properly secured the Washington County Judge's authorization to annex 10.25 acres located at 1287 North 54th Street. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby confirms the annexation to the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas of that property described in Exhibits A and Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby zones the newly annexed property R.A. Residential Agricultural. Section 3, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official map and zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to recognize this annexation
 And Section 4, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arcs are hereby assigns this 10.25 acres to Ward 4 of the City of Fayetteville. John. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in West Fayetteville on the west side of Interstate 49. More specifically, and as you can see on the map here, it's just about 2.2 miles from where Weddington Drive and Interstate 49 intersect.
 It's at the north end of 54th Avenue, and as the mayor and Mr. Williams noted, it includes about 10 acres of land there, which is currently surrounded on three sides by incorporated city of Fayetteville property land.
 The zoning districts in the area and the land uses in the area are fairly varied. Immediately to the west is the Heritage Village subdivision, which includes a mixture of single and two-family homes that is accessed off Weddington Drive. To the east is a piece of land that was annexed into the property fairly recently at the beginning of 2020. It includes cobblestone farms.
 and was annexed into the city with the intent of developing it with a mix of residential uses and services out towards Weddington to serve varying income levels. As you can see on the blue dashed line on this map, it is also recognized as being an area where connectivity further to the east will be beneficial to the city.
 In looking at annexations, there are a number of issues that staff looks at in evaluating a request. The first of these is services, of course.
 when we think about the services staff first generally thinks of emergency services at this location there are automatic response agreements with the other emergency responders for this property which include fire volunteer fire departments in the county and the sheriff's department uh they while the police and fire chiefs can most certainly more ably describe what an automatic response means uh in a nutshell uh
 It means that any areas or it means the city will serve areas to which it can respond to more rapidly, which is all but assured at this location. If you're familiar with it or saw in the staff's report, Hamstring Creek is immediately to the north of this property, which effectively cuts it off from any sort of connection to unincorporated areas. And with the city's fire department on Bruple Road, it is almost certainly the first responder to this property as it is today.
 When it comes to water and sewer, this property does have immediate access to it through the Heritage Village subdivision to the west. Also there is water and sanitary sewer in Weddington which can be extended north along 54th Avenue if necessary. When it comes to considering the request in terms of whether it will more effectively or create a more effectively served boundary for the city, staff asserts that it will.
 Again, it is surrounded on three sides or it is bordered on three sides by existing incorporated property. It's a peninsula of unincorporated land jutting into incorporated areas and annexing this into the city will create a more coherent boundary for provision of services. When it comes to sensitive areas.
 Staff did not find this particular property to include those. If you visited the property or are able to consider an aerial, you can probably see that there's been a fair amount of grading on it over the years. Further north from this property is where it becomes much more environmentally sensitive. It slopes downward fairly rapidly to the Hamestream Creek corridor.
 That said, staff does generally tend to advocate however annexing lands when possible to subject them to our city's development standards, which tend to be much higher than those found in the county. And last but not least is consideration of whether an annexation will have positive or negative fiscal impacts.
 This is unusual that some of the annexation requests the council has seen recently in that there is not a concurrent rezoning being considered tonight. This is purely an annexation request. If it is annexed into the city, it'll be zoned RA, residential agricultural, which will have minimal fiscal impacts on the city. At 10 acres, it can theoretically be developed with five units at this time, which staff does not anticipate possible.
 or anticipate being realistic, but even if it were, the amount of infrastructure associated with that, that the city would be responsible for would be fairly limited to
 that said and as i shared at the agenda session last week there was a rezoning request following on this annexation request coattails to rezone this property to ri 12 residential intermediate 12. that was however denied by the planning commission i've not heard anything since about uh whether that will be appealed or if the applicant's exploring a different request
 And with that, staff did find the annexation to ultimately be in the city's interest. We are recommending approval. The Planning Commission unanimously agreed, focusing primarily on that the annexation will create a much more logical boundary for the city to serve. And with that, I'm happy to take the council's questions. And I believe J.R. Carroll is here virtually as the applicant for the item.
 Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. This is Jerry Carroll for the applicant. I think Mr. Kirk has done a fantastic job explaining the situation. This is simply a peninsula of county property that is approximately exactly halfway between the city limits to the west and 49. It has approximately 20 acres of RU that abut to the east.
 and 40 acres of RI-12 that have busted to the west. And not only that, I think it just streamlines the city limits by annexing this property and prevents a peninsula of which the city does not have any control.
 The only other thing I would add is there was no public criticism whatsoever or comments regarding this annexation. Otherwise, I'll take any questions that you may have. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or staff on this?
 I don't necessarily have a question but I'd like to voice my support for this. I think it's very practical and makes a lot of sense and it's in my ward so I will be supporting this. Okay. Anything else from the council before we take public comment? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member.
 Stay on the topic, which is the annexation on 54th Street. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the council chamber after that. Is there anyone on Zoom, Lisa? There's no one. All right. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. Okay.
 What discussion or action items would the council like to take? I would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Warren? Yes.
 in order to waive that an ordinance to annex that property described in annexation petition anx 21-002 submitted by kutak rock llc on behalf of north star construction the property located at 1287 north 54th street containing approximately 10 and a quarter acres okay what's the wishes council this is on the second reading this is an ordinance i would like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Jones. Yes. An ordinance to annex that property described in the annexation petition ANX 21-002 submitted by Kutok Rock LLC on behalf of North Star Construction for a property located at 1287 North 54th Street containing approximately 10 14 acres. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Kenyon.
 Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to number 10. An ordinance levying a tax on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas.
 for the year 2021 fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund 2.5 mils for the federal public library operations and 1.2 mils for the federal public library expansion and certifying the same to the county clerk of washington county arkansas kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that a tax is hereby levied on the real and personal property within the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, for the year 2021 to be collected in 2022 for the following purposes at the following rates. Real and personal property purpose general fund operations to levy as 2.3 mils.
 Fayetteville Public Library Operations, 2.5 mils. Fayetteville Public Library Expansion, 1.2 mil. Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mil. Fireman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mil for a total of 6.8 mils. Section 2, that the real and personal property tax so levied,
 and the rates provided, therefore, are hereby certified to the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas, to be placed in the tax book and collected in the same manner that the county and school district taxes are collected. Section 3, that the City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this ordinance in the Office of the County Clerk for Washington County, Arkansas.
 Go ahead, Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. We discussed this at the agenda session. I want to make this very, very clear, especially for members of the public. This is not a budget request. This is a request for the real estate property taxes and the levy for those taxes, which will be collected next year for the support of the budget. I presented a general fund budget
 simply as a manner to show you the need for levying these taxes. So it was to identify with what the needs of the general fund supported by the mayor were at this time. We're going to discuss the budget in November. So this is not a budget discussion. The general fund appropriations that we talked about will be discussed again in November, and it was merely done to demonstrate the need for this levy.
 When we discussed the levy and what you're being asked to approve tonight, 6.8 mills. All but 2.3 of those mills were approved by referendum. So you're duty bound to approve those. The 2.3 mills is to fund the general fund would result in approximately $4.4 million based on the assessed value I received from the county at this point in time.
 This is not a property tax increase. This is the same levy that we've had for several years, same levy we had last year. So it's no increase in taxes. It's not a budget request. It doesn't authorize us to spend any money. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. OK. What questions do we have for Paul on this? This is merely the extension of the present tax that exists right now, correct, Paul? That's correct. OK.
 So the decision for the council is whether they want to increase the tax or leave it the same. Is that correct? This is not an increase in taxes. It's the same taxes we had last year. That's correct. Okay. What questions do we have for Paul from City Council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those that are in person in the council chambers after that. Is there anyone by Zoom? There's no one. Is there anyone here that would like to address this in the chambers? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion would we like to have?
 Here I have a comment. I haven't seen much press about this item and you know it's a tax issue so it's you know obviously involves money for everybody within the city and I'm just wondering if it wouldn't be a good idea to leave this on the first reading so that people our citizens have enough information to know that it's on our agenda even though it's keeping the tax at the same rate
 Right. So I'm putting that out there to my fellow colleagues. So you'd like to hold it for two weeks? I would support that. Okay. All right. We can let it just sit here for two weeks and then come back and look at it in two weeks. That's fine. But we do have to have something decided by the second meeting of October. Is that correct, Paul? On the tax. That's the correct line. Although what the law reads is we have to have it.
 to Washington County by the end of October. Our final meeting in October would be a second meeting in October. So we can certainly delay it to the next time. That's fine. Right. It's just that we have to make a decision before the end of October. And if we don't do it the next meeting, then I would have to call probably a special city council meeting to decide that. I'm kind of special meetinged out right now. So we'll leave it right here. We'll leave it on the first reading.
 Teresa and so we'll move on to the next one. Thank you. I just want to make sure the public is aware of this item. It's fine. I mean, I don't have any issue with that. All right. Number 11, an ordinance to amend the 71.065 general speed restrictions of the Federal City Code to establish a default speed limit of 20 miles per hour in residential and business districts. Kip.
 Whereas section 71.065 general speed restrictions of the city code says default speed limits of 20 miles per hour for business districts and 25 miles per hour for residential districts. And whereas recommendations from the League of American Bicyclists, People of Bikes and the 2019 Fayetteville Mobility Plan all advise lowering speed limits to 20 miles per hour on minor residential streets.
 and whereas staff recommends unifying the statutory default speed limit of 20 miles per hour in all residential and business districts, and whereas this amendment will immediately change the speed limit for streets without posted speed limits and speed limit signs and will be changed on other appropriate streets over time. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the city council of the city of fayetteville arcs are hereby repeal subsection b in section 71.065 general speed restriction and enacts a new subsection b as follows quote subsection b where no special hazard exists speeds of 20 miles per hour in any residential or business district shall be lawful
 But any speed in excess of such limits shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful. Okay. Chris.
 thank you mayor this item comes to you by way of the transportation committee it's been been reviewed by the transportation committee actually last year the previous committee and this year's committee as well they voted 4-0 to recommend approval of this ordinance
 And as Kit mentioned, it would simply unify the default speed limit, if not otherwise signed, from 20 miles per hour in business districts and 25 miles per hour in residential areas to 20 miles per hour in all areas of the city.
 This is recommended by the various industry groups that Kit mentioned. And it also matches up with our desired operating speeds included in city plans. So those residential type streets, the recommended operating speeds are 15 to 20 miles per hour. In answer to Council Member Turk's question about the costs, we've got about
 Estimated 12 to 1500 of these 25 mile per hour signs in residential areas. So changing those all out, the cost of materials would be in the range of 20 to $25,000. That doesn't mean we have to change those out. It just means that
 If this default is changed, then all of those areas that are signed for 25 would remain at 25 until we either take the sign down or replace it with a 20 mile per hour sign. So with that, I'll answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Chris on this? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Okay.
 All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on the topic, and that is reducing the general speed limit in residential and business districts to 20 miles an hour.
 Um, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Okay. Do we have anyone here in person that would like to address us on this? Okay. I will bring it back to the City Council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion or what action items would the Council like to do tonight? Okay.
 Mayor, I have some comments. Like the previous item that we discussed, this affects everybody in Fayetteville. I really, I know that most of the complaints that I get are really about people speeding, not going too slow. So I feel certain that most people would support lowering the speed limit. However, I think we should give the public an opportunity to
 We're not, we didn't have anybody speak up tonight and just make sure that they have a chance to state their opinion. So I'd like to hold it if we could again, just so that there's more public notification and input and since it affects the entire city. Thank you. Okay, what other comments do we have? Anybody got an opinion? Okay, so I'm going to turn it over to the board.
 it went through the transportation committee right holly are you on that transportation committee yes mayor it went through the transportation committee and we approved uh we recommended it to go to the city council could i ask some of the other council members that's on that transportation committee of how did it go or what was how was the discussion and what are you all thinking or okay then they're sad um mayor every um i think holly was it unanimous it was unanimous
 Okay. So the Transportation Committee as a whole did not have any issues with this? No, we didn't have any issues with it. Okay. Well, let's see. I move to suspend rules and go to second reading. Okay. Do we have a second? I second. Yeah, we have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Here, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Kenyon?
 No. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. That motion fails. Okay, well, I guess we'll leave it right here and we'll pick it up in two weeks.
 All right, let's go on to number 12, a resolution to grant the appeal of 3V Development LLC for ADM 21-0057 and determine that requiring the construction of a sidewalk
 that conforms to the 171.13 of the Unified Development Code along the properties located at 743, 755 and 769, South Washington Avenue exceeds the rough portionality of the impact of the development. Jonathan Ely, I believe has this. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'll get my screen shared here. You have 10 minutes, Jonathan. Thank you.
 All right. So as you mentioned, this resolution for your consideration tonight is an appeal by Mr. Niederman for the sidewalk requirements at 743, 755, and 769 South Washington Avenue.
 This property is located in South Fayetteville on the west side of South Washington Avenue, just south of 7th Street. It contains about 23 acres in total, split between three separate lots, and just south of MLK and east of College, for those of you that are familiar with the area. All right.
 Mr. Neiswander applied for building permits on the property back in late March, early April of this year, and planning two single-family homes, two accessory dwelling units, and one duplex for the property. This type of development is permitted by building permit, only with no development review. And here's a site plan showing the proposed site.
 The building permit review under the Unified Development Code, Section 171.13 requires the property owner to construct sidewalks or contribute cost of sidewalks.
 um whenever building permits are issued you can see the requirement here showing on the slide basically pretty straightforward requires the property any property or abutting a public street or highway for which a sidewalk is required by the city's master street plan shall construct a sidewalk in accordance with this chapter along that street or highway
 upon receipt of the billing permit mr ely i'm sorry for the interruption it doesn't look like your slides are advancing i'm sorry okay i will uh i will back up here and i should still be able to get it covered can you see that right now yes okay well i will uh catch my slides up to where i was at in the presentation
 Okay. So as we were discussing, the requirements of UDC 171.13 are to, for the property owner to construct the sidewalk at the time of building permit.
 When the building permits come in, the engineering staff reviews the permit for the applicability of this code section. One thing we look at is, is the density increasing on site? Next thing we would look at is, is there an existing sidewalk on site? If so, does this meet the master street plan requirements?
 Also, we would look at the site feasibility. Is it actually feasible to install a new sidewalk on the Master, according to the Master Street Plan or are there physical features in a way such as steep terrain, utilities or drainage features that we get in the way of constructing that sidewalk? So, on this site, going back to the property information.
 uh it's about 0.3 acres and going back in the aerial images there was an existing house here back in 2017 on this site there's no structures here currently it looks like that that structure was demolished sometime in 2017 and again here's the proposed improvements for the site showing two single family homes two adus and one duplex totaling 10 bedrooms and eight parking spaces
 So once the review of determination of impact is done and completed, the next step is to review the site for the existing sidewalks to determine if they can close the Master Street Plan. This is a preview image of the existing sidewalks.
 on the site of 4 foot existing walk at the back of her. I've also got a comparison to our master street plan to go section which requires a 6 foot sidewalk with a 6 foot green face there in the top left of that line. So you can see what that looks like this is part of either residential link 3. 3.
 and uh so the the actual sidewalk requirement uh for this would be of course that six foot sidewalk with six foot green space beyond the master street plan 171.14 also requires a minimum effective width of sidewalk to be five feet
 and so including a shy distance for a sidewalk at the back of the curb the sidewalk to comply with the back of curve requirement at this location would need to be five and a half feet wide so in this case the existing sidewalks not meeting either one of those requirements again supporting the case for removal and replacement of new sidewalks
 as with any recommendation or requirement for street or sidewalk improvement the requirements must bear net rational nexus and must also be roughly proportional to the impact created
 That's where we've shared the sidewalk requirements, site conditions, the impact being proposed for the site. Next, we look at the rough cost of what those improvements would be if we were to recommend sidewalks. So on this site, we're talking about about 100 feet of property frontage along Washington Avenue. If we were to take a six foot wide sidewalk, that would be 600 square feet.
 and typically we see about five dollars per square foot for construction costs which would put that at around three thousand dollars of uh sidewalk improvements and of course you know we know that doesn't include everything that doesn't include the removal of the old sidewalk but just as a ballpark more more than anything um for where where we're seeing these costs at
 So moving on, just to compare a few examples, these are recent projects. I'll run through a few slides here where sidewalks were recently completed under our codes and requirements. This is along the north side of Martin Luther King, Junior Boulevard. It was completed just this year. There were two duplexes and one single-family home constructed on this site, where there was previously, I believe, maybe two single-family homes.
 There's about 100 feet of sidewalk again. You see the cost there was about $2,600. Looking back at the county sales data for these properties this year, those total property values are estimated to be about $1.2 million.
 So we felt like those requirements for sidewalks were within that roughly proportional impact. Another example, this is south side of East 9th Street. These projects were completed in 2019. Seven single-family homes, about 300 feet of sidewalk.
 $7700 worth of sidewalk improvements based on those, you know, the same $5 per square foot cost. Looking back at these same, you know, county sales data for recent sales when these properties sold was about $1.38 million. So again, we feel like that's within that ballpark of roughly proportional cost. Same neighborhood, this is South College Avenue, the east side of South College, completed a couple of years ago.
 It's about the same size, actually about 100 feet of sidewalk. This was a five-foot-wide sidewalk. It was completed a couple of years ago prior to the current master street plan, so that's why that cost is a little bit different there. Same source, though, on the county data for the sales was about $1.2 million. Okay.
 And just another example, just a little bit further down on College Avenue. So as you can see, we're kind of in the same ballpark with estimated cost of construction for these sidewalks and what we feel like is the ultimate kind of improved value of the property based on the county sales data. And we feel like we're still holding within that same roughly proportional impact based on the project. A separate...
 Point of condition is that the applicant kind of claims that the engineering inspectors routinely failed sidewalk inspections because the sidewalks do not comply with ADA guidelines and that causes new concrete to be removed and replaced.
 This causes delays, increased costs, uses more resources, and puts more concrete in the landfill. Of course, this is never our goal to do any of these things. We try to make all of our standards documents and details and everything publicly available and try to make sure that all the contractors and developers have these.
 requirement painting to them we've actually implemented things like pre-pour inspections on sidewalks to try to check for issues before in concrete board time Jonathan time okay unless the council gives you more time this that's all the time you have understood thank you sir okay mayor I'd like to give him two more minutes if possible it's fine
 how much two more minutes so all right jonathan you have two more minutes to wrap up yes sir so as the appeal letter also goes on to state there's several cases of sidewalk to nowhere claiming that sidewalk improvement
 add significant cost to projects without clear benefit um while that's you know occasionally the case we do feel like over the long term that these sidewalk requirements have improved neighborhoods i'm going to kind of speed up here and just get to for a few examples of these this is
 south street just south of the college in archival yale there's quite a bit of infill development that occurred there over the last couple of years in 2019 the city sidewalk project extended to this neighborhood and provide some activity there highlighted in blue
 Another example of this is Prairie Street. Currently, there was some redevelopment that has occurred there over the last few years as well. New sidewalks have been installed and now the city engineering staff is working on designs for possible sidewalk expansions there and connectivity there.
 Over in the neighborhood of Sang Mitchell and Nettleship, there's been a lot of redevelopment in this neighborhood. And I know some of that has come at other costs, but specifically looking at sidewalks here, there's been a good increase in sidewalk connectivity throughout this neighborhood to the point where we almost have connectivity over to the university.
 yes this is another example on views where sidewalks were connected um
 for the city project. So just in summary, staff is recommending denial of this appeal. The Planning Commission also voted to deny it with a vote of four, three, and one. We did receive a little bit of public comment on it in support of city requirements for sidewalks, but no other public comment has been received. So I will answer any questions you have. Okay, thank you. Next we go to the applicant.
 The applicant has 10 minutes. Thank you. Z with 3D development. I thought I had 20, so I'm going to blow through this. Is T? And Z, if you want to, you can take off your mask to be understood better. Yes, I'm sorry. Yes, you may. I'm going to smile. Is my presentation? Put that for me. Thanks.
 So I know stand up here right now if you're vote right now, I have a zero percent chance of. Winning this appeal, you thought so little of my case that you put me at the very last, even after several items of public business. But I think those were actually in retrospect.
 good timing because they deal with speed limits on residential streets and the taxing of real estate for public goods. And so I feel pretty confident about if you can set aside your preconceived notions and actually think through this issue critically, you'll be in agreement with me. So I'm going to walk you through a little bit of the projects that we've done in the neighborhood.
 You can see some of the pictures of what we have done. Now this won't, you know, convince you that I'm right, but I hopefully it will at least give you a feel for kind of what we've done and the reason why you might want to at least listen to what I have to say.
 Well, actually go back, sorry. So as you can see, we've done a lot of small houses. We have an architect who works on it, well, multiple architects. We take care of what we do. We try to do small things that are attainable housing, right size housing. There are cottages. One of those has an ADU in the back.
 We built some more with ADUs and here's an example of a gravel alleyway that we did. So this is, I forget how many, you know, a couple hundred feet and now there's probably half a dozen owners who can now use that and some of them who actually do.
 And here's some pictures of rain gardens that we built. So this was before the green stormwater protocol that you guys passed. So this is stuff that we did prior to that. That was what we did. In fact, here are some green roofs that we did. And actually, the pink one on the left is the very first residential green roof in Fayetteville.
 So we've been working, doing a lot of things in this neighborhood. And again, all of these are are within several minute walk from the project that we're looking at and. See, so coming back to the green roofs and the, and the, and the, the storm storm water, green storm water protocols now, part of the reason that is.
 rule came about was because when I was on the planning commission, I actually was saying how we were becoming a town of duplexes because of our development code. So I worked hard and eventually turned over to city staff who made the future changes. But I was kind of instrumental in helping get some of those going. As you can see, actually on that left one there is another alleyway that people have future access to.
 Here's another example doing tactical urbanism in the neighborhood. This is something that I was involved in from the beginning. So again, we've also done numerous unique projects in the neighborhood, bringing art to the community. And we've had numerous community events in the neighborhood. And as you'll see, there's people in the street.
 and more community events, more people in the street. And I think that what I want to highlight here is thinking about community being in the street. It's not just about sidewalks, it's about building community. And I'll come to that next. So if you think that I'm against sidewalks, I want you all to know that we donated land here on MLK
 In order to have this sidewalk, it was like a missing piece. And we actually reached out to council members to actually get this installed. So coming back to streets from city plan 2040, it says more than any other feature streets define a community's character. Great streets are walkable, accessible, et cetera. And residential streets are key to livability in neighborhoods. And I, and I, and I think that,
 What I'm trying to highlight here, and this is from a book by Ross Chapin, Pocket Neighborhoods, we should be thinking of streets as rooms. When traffic slows to a walking pace, streets can also become the neighborhood commons, places where neighbors meet casually and children play. And so this idea that we have to have big sidewalks that are separated from the streets,
 i don't think is is necessarily the right right way that we always should think about this so just as we separated commercial from residential years ago when we're realizing what a mistake that was i think that later on we'll say you know building big sidewalks on residential streets so that cars can move efficiently through that may not be really the right approach on all streets now certainly on mlk that's that's
 what we should do. That's a busy street, and you're not going to have that community. But on residential streets, I think we can think differently about it. Here's another picture of kids playing in the streets. And what I want to highlight here is great streets, not sidewalks, they build community. I did want to bring up now sort of the legal side. Mr. Williams sent you a memo. I disagreed with most of it, but there's a couple of things I wanted to highlight here.
 What he said on a couple things were correct, but I think misleading, not with an intent to mislead, but nevertheless, I think they give the wrong context. So first, infill development is not greenfield development. And he said that we had saved a lot of costs because there was existing streets and infrastructure that we didn't need to put in. But we would never have paid the price that we paid for that lot.
 if the infrastructure wasn't there. As Commissioner Winston said, planning commission, when we bought the land, we bought a sidewalk. And likewise, we also bought the water sewer and roads with it as well.
 Another statement is that number of units is not equal density. So while it is true we now have six units where there were one, what we have is a two-bedroom house with a one-bedroom ADU. That's equivalent to a three-bedroom house. It's 1,800 square feet. There's two of those, and then there's a third house which is a four-bedroom which is equivalent to a 24-square-foot house.
 I want to just think about that and now also consider that those are on three individual lots. We had four, we changed it to three. Essentially three houses on three lots. Now on this street on Washington,
 There were there have been I've counted, I think, eight new construction houses all up and down Washington on that side of the street. There's more on the opposite side, but on that side of the street and. Not 1 of those, some of those are ones that we built, not all of them. Some not 1 of them actually had the sidewalk pushed back and made to a 6 or 5 foot setback or sorry.
 Not one was pushed back. So, but we're requiring it here. And I wanna also remind you, this is not a development, this is three individual building permits, three individual lots. And we can look at it as six units, but I think we're doing a disservice to affordability and right size housing when we look at the unit count as opposed to other measures such as square footage or bedrooms.
 I'm going to blow through this legal stuff here because it's going to take a while. I think I have a lot of valid points here, but I'm just going to skip mostly over it.
 What I want to say here is that essentially what we're doing, what the city is doing when they say they want to push the sidewalks back is we have a master street plan. The master street plan says this is what we want. However, a plan without a timeline, a budget or funding. Time set. Oh, okay. Mayor, in fairness to the applicant, I'd like to add two minutes to his talk if other council members are agreeable. Okay. Okay.
 So, all right, you have two minutes. All right, that's the ten minutes I've ever had. All right, sorry. Come back one. So what Mr. Williams says, we don't need to suspend our, to leave our common sense at the door here. And so I think that's an apt statement here.
 What I want to say is the city has never provided an impact. They have never said what an impact is. They've provided a conclusory statement. So due to an increased density and walkable area, it is likely that the development will generate increased pedestrian traffic. Jonathan Ely, that's conclusory.
 Kit Williams, construction of six housing units where before there was one increase in the number of residents, many of whom will likely use city sidewalks. That's the increased housing will have an impact on city pedestrian infrastructure needs. That is conclusory. That is one of the clear things that Dolan versus Tigard says. You can't have conclusory. It needs to be an individualized impact. The city has never provided any sort of individualized impact. And again, they don't show any benefit to.
 to me or the city through this. If I could go, sorry, keep going, keep going.
 This, I want to bring this up. This is city plan 2030. It said long-term, 2013, we will adopt a tiered impact fee system. So looking at, okay, where development happens, where do we want it? This is something we haven't done. We put it, pushed it down the line. I don't have a problem with us pushing it down the line, but that's what we're saying to, that's what we said we want to do because we want to make it easier to develop in areas that are close to downtown. And
 We're not doing that. What I'm doing here, we're putting this as alley-loaded. Next one. This is what it looks like. It's going to be a cottage court. Maybe Jonathan Kurth can tell us how many cottage courts have actually been built in the city. I don't know of many, but here we have two one bedrooms right at the street.
 And I want to just kind of give you an alternative what we could be doing here. This is two four-bedroom houses, college kids. We could even build, if we go next page, we could build it so we have three right here. And I think you could argue that there would be no sidewalk impact because all the kids would be college kids, they drive, park in their garage, and then they drive to college. They wouldn't be using the sidewalks. That's sort of what our alternative is. Tom. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the City Council? For the applicant or staff? I have a question for the applicant. Sure. How do you address the concern about not meeting ADA guidelines or standards? So I didn't address that but, well can you clarify your question a little bit?
 One of the concerns Mr. Williams mentioned in his memo was the not meeting ADA guidelines. And I just wondered how you would address that or how you would remedy that. Well, I appreciate that question. That's a great question. None of the other sidewalk section is ADA accessible. So up and down, there's a new house that is proposed to be built directly next to it. It's a single family house.
 that sidewalk is not going to change the plan. You can look at the curb. I have 100 pictures of the up and down the street where it's not accessible. I have pictures of people in wheelchairs going down the street. So we could build it. That's true. But none of the other section would be handicap accessible. And the city, given that there's already a sidewalk on that street,
 There's no capital plan to build the rest of the street The city needs has so many connections that it needs to build that and it has not shown that that Whole section is a priority because there's already an existing sidewalk there Thank you. So I'm super mode speed mode. Well the questions do have in the council. Do we know how much? We've spent building new sidewalks last year the last two years etc
 Like actual say Probably be either Jonathan may know that or Paul Becker would probably know that I don't have that number available I do think Chris Brown is on he may have that I
 Yeah, I would say it's in the order of several hundred thousand dollars just for materials. We've also allocated about four million dollars in the bond program just specifically for sidewalks in the in the downtown and other areas. So it's it's several hundred thousand dollars per year, which adds up into millions of dollars over the past several years. All right. Thank you. Any other questions? Council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. The topic is the appeal from 3B development.
 Please no rude behavior. Give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first And those that are in the council chamber after that who do we have on zoom? There's no one. All right Do we have anybody in the chamber would like to address us on this? Oh?
 Tommy Flowers Davis, 106 North Willow. I guess I have a question as to how, I mean, if we're spending all these dollars on sidewalks in the city, how are they allocated according to where the money is being spent? Because I know a lot of development is going on in South Fayetteville, but I'm not seeing the...
 Infrastructure with sidewalks and that sort of thing happening in that area So I guess I'm wondering is there plan is there budget is there something to determine? How those monies are spent for sidewalks in the city Chris you can probably answer that I know that it does go to the Transportation Committee Where a lot of these sidewalks are determined where they're going to be located
 Yes, Mayor. We have a master list of requests and staff-generated locations where we'd like to install sidewalks. We do have a scoring system that we developed as part of the mobility plan that looks at things like 
 Density of people and jobs, proximity to schools, a whole list of things that we that we look at and aggregate those scores and then develop priorities based on that scoring system. So typically, since we've started that system, we've seen more projects in more of the densely populated areas, the downtown areas, and maybe less in some of the outer areas
 And I think that system has been working well. We do have many miles of streets, and so sometimes it may not look like we're putting many sidewalks in compared to the number of streets we do.
 that don't have sidewalks, but we do have a significant program and are continuing to work on that every year. So if there's a location that anybody's looking for, we put that on the list, we score it, and then we develop our work plan each year. And then as you noted, Mayor, that does go to the Transportation Committee and ultimately to the City Council to be approved as a work plan each year.
 All right. Anybody else would like to address this in the chamber? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution for the appeal. So, yes, Kit. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to address some of the legal questions, but before I really get into them, I want to make sure the city council realized what's the sole issue today, and it is whether or not...
 the requirement that is in the city code passed by the City Council and also incorporating the master street plan and its requirement for sidewalks and that's what the city staff has to follow whether that is more than the rough proportionality of the impact of mr. Niedermann's development and
 which does have six structures, residential structures where there was one. It has many more bedrooms than where there was one. And so what is the test that the city council must look for? And it is a very general test. The Supreme Court was very clear when they first came forward with this to put restrictions on the cities. And there were arguments at the Supreme Court,
 in the Dolan v. City of Tigard, which was a fundamental case set forth by the Supreme Court. And there was an argument that the court should have a very strong and rigid standard, like the state of Illinois had. And that was a standard that if the local government cannot demonstrate that its exaction, which means its requirement,
 is directly proportional to the property, specifically to a specifically created need, the exaction becomes a confiscation of private property. So the court looked at that and they specifically rejected at that. They said, we do not think that the federal constitution requires such exacting scrutiny.
 and then it came up with its test, which is, even though no precise mathematical calculation is required, but the city must make some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is related both in nature and extent,
 of the impact of the proposed development. Now this individualized determination, what does that mean? That means that the Planning Commission and now the City Council needs to look at the actual development that's under consideration. So they must look at what has happened on this site. This site had a single family home and now it has two single family homes, two ADUs of basically almost the same size, and then a duplex.
 So it has six units where there was one before. And so what does that mean? Does that mean now we have to go out there and have people stand outside and see if people are walking back and forth and using the sidewalk? Obviously, that kind of strict scrutiny is not needed and would be impossible because this is generally applied before anybody moves in.
 So what you have to do is you look at historical situations and also use your common sense. If it has that many more residents at this site, many of those residents are probably going to use the sidewalk. It'll be an impact on our sidewalk, the city's sidewalk infrastructure needs. And therefore
 If you have that large of an increase of the density of a particular project with more housing, more bedrooms, then I don't think that you have to be more individualized than that. You have to look at the particular development. And that's what they meant by individualized determination. The city couldn't just say, every time you have a project, you've got to do this.
 without looking at what the project does. Is it a commercial project? Different considerations there? Residential project? Multi-family? Single-family? You have to look at the project, especially when it's been challenged, and evaluate whether or not what the city is asking for is too much.
 more than the rough proportionality of the impact of that particular development on the infrastructure need under consideration and this time it is sidewalks the City Council has made the determination in passing unified development code and in passing the 2040 plan that they want a sidewalk that is away from the street
 opposed to the old ways where we had built them right on the curb the City Council decided that they did not want it on the curb instead they wanted an ADA capable safe sidewalk compliable sidewalk built away from the street for more traffic safety pedestrian safety there for that or whatever their purposes were but that was what the City Council determined
 They did not, and that is what staff, and that is what the council must continue to evaluate until you change the rules. If you want to eliminate the requirement to have sidewalks, the city council can do that.
 That's what happened in the 60s and 70s when the Rolling Hill development was built. And there in that development you had very broad streets, I think 31 feet wide or maybe even broader, and no sidewalks. That's one kind of development that can be happening. I think after that, the later city councils decided, no, we really would like to have sidewalks. And so the sidewalks have become more and more required and more refined, making sure there are ADA sidewalks.
 But having sidewalks at all is something the city council has the policy power to determine, and they have determined that they want sidewalks. One thing I want to point out to state law, there was some mention, especially in his memo that I just received a
 about an hour before or maybe 30 minutes before the meeting talking about the Arkansas statutes. We are in compliance with the Arkansas statutes. We have great powers over the over the sidewalks. It's amazing. That whole thing I've highlighted is our powers over the sidewalks.
 It is true that it says that the kind and character of sidewalk improvements for the same street and block shall be uniform. Instead of that, we did it for all the same kinds of streets. So if you've got a residential street, you have one requirement. If you have a commercial street,
 a bit much bigger street a thoroughfare you have a bigger requirement so the city has gone even farther the City Council and in enacting requirements depending upon what the street is being used for and how big the street is so we're certainly in compliance with the state law on that and have been for many many years so the only other thing I would say is that the the test and
 that is stated in my memo and was presented also by Blake Pennington to the Planning Commission
 by the, when we quote the Supreme Court, is correct. And you might find quotes from other states, like Connecticut, but they're interpreting their own state law, not the United States Constitution. And even if a state is interpreting the United States Constitution, the test does not change until the U.S. Supreme Court changes the test, and they have not done that. So the test still is rough proportionality,
 which doesn't require a mathematical calculation, but it does require an individualized determination, which is what the city council must be making now, too.
 I'm not telling you what to make. You listen to all the facts, you listen to the applicant, you listen to staff, you use your common sense, you look at the plat of Mr. Niedermann's development, and then you determine for yourselves, is it related both in nature and extent, the requirement of having a 100-foot long sidewalk, is it related in both nature and extent to the impact of his development?
 If you think that it is and it's not beyond the rough proportionality, then you would deny the appeal. If you believe it is too much to ask of Mr. Nederland to build this 100 feet of ADA-compatible sidewalk, well, then you grant his appeal and...
 we better look very carefully at the whole requirement that is now in the master street plan and in the unified development code to see is this going to be too much? Are we asking to build too big a sidewalk? Are we asking to have more green space? We shouldn't have that anymore because that's too much to ask. So you will need to examine your development rules if you believe that this particular development has been asked to do too much in this case.
 and that that's all i have okay all right um it's back to the council now um you've heard from everybody this is a resolution it's um we would have to have a motion and a second and either you would vote for the appeal or against it is that right kit yes in fact there needs to be a motion to grant to approve the resolution
 which takes five affirmative votes. So just like in any appeal, whether it be the conditional use appeal or this appeal, it requires five affirmative votes by the council to grant the appeal. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Okay. So what discussion do you all want to have here?
 So I'll be against the appeal. We need sidewalks in the city. I think that this is a reasonable place to put sidewalks. City has shown that they're spending money to put sidewalks here and in other places. I think that this needs the proportionality. This is around his projects. We're not asking him to sidewalk to his projects or to, you know, a school or anything of that nature.
 So I think this makes sense. I hope we continue to keep the requirement. This is a small cost. We've probably spent more money preparing the documents for this discussion than the sidewalk is gonna cost. So I think we should keep the requirements. So thank you. Okay, what else?
 Yes. Mr. Mayor, I appreciate Mr. Niedermann's
 Niedermann's concerns and his evaluation of the situation there. But I know since I've been on a transportation committee, you know, he brought up the issue of how safe the street was because she'd seen someone, or I think this was what he said, someone in a wheelchair that used the street for access to get around. Well, that, that,
 If I remember correctly, we had someone come to transportation committee that was talking about that same situation and using it to describe how unsafe the street was because there was this person that used a wheelchair on the street because there were no sidewalks for them to use. And, you know, I just feel like this is not it's not impossible for him to do this. And I'm not going to vote in favor of this appeal. Thank you.
 Anything else? I have one small comment. You know, this sets a bad precedent. Mr. Eli showed us all the other developments that had put in sidewalks recently. And so if we make an exception to this, then how do those developers that complied with our code and our master plan feel? So I will be voting against this. Okay. Anybody else?
 keep in mind we will need a motion and a second and then you will vote it up or down yes there needs to be a motion and a second to pass the resolution and then you would vote for that if you wanted to grant the appeal then you'd vote against the resolution if you did not want to grant the appeal yeah i'll make a motion that we grant the appeal second we have a motion in a second to grant the appeal any final comments from the council all right all
 Yeah, please call the roll Kenyon Oh Scroggins no bench No turd no Hertzberg no Jones. Yes Okay, the resolution did not pass and so the appeal is denied, okay Thank you all All right, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? I?
 Mayor, we announced several bulky waste cleanup dates for the fall beginning Saturday, September 25th for Ward 1, 7 a.m. at Shaver Foods parking lot. The rest of the dates throughout October are available on the website. And then just a reminder that we still have our vaccine incentive program. Anyone living or working in Fayetteville.
 who becomes fully vaccinated between August 17th and October 15th can apply for $100. That's it. Okay. Kara, I believe you had an announcement. Thank you, Mayor. Again, good evening, everyone. I'm proud to announce that two of the City Clerk team members have been selected to receive scholarships to attend this year's training through the Arkansas Municipal Clerks Institute.
 These scholarships are at $200 apiece, which is a phenomenal scholarship to be able to receive through our state. By attending this annual training, they increase their knowledge regarding records retention, the Freedom of Information Act, and many other topics concerning public service. I just want to say how grateful I am for my entire team and their eagerness to attend trainings that increase their skills in order to better assist the city of Fayetteville. Thank you.
 Thank you and congratulations. Well done. All right, anything else? All right, thank you all very much. No, you may not speak. Public comment's over. All right, thank you all. We're adjourned.