i'd like to call the city council meeting to order or a special city council meeting for september 29 2015. sundry would you please call the roll shop mark the chair president long gray here marsh here kenyon here petty tenant mayor jordan here would you join me in the pledge of allegiance
 meeting and justice for all. The only thing that we have to discuss tonight is on the agenda is the city council's meeting. The city council's meetings, presentation, reports, discussion items, presentation of the old fireman's pension plan, presentation by PRB representatives. Paul? Yes, Mayor and Council. I'd like to introduce the Executive Director of Loppe and PRB, David Clark.
 who is here tonight, and Jody Carrero, who is the actuary for the PRB. And they're gonna do a presentation this evening to talk about one, the condition of the old fire pension fund. Now this is not LOPI, this is the old fire pension fund that we currently administer here at the city.
 It's been declared actuarially unsound since approximately 2006 or 2007, and they're going to discuss the condition of that fund at this point in time and some potential options for that fund going forward. So with that, I believe Jody is going to be prepared. David, are you going to be doing the presentation? This is David Clarky, again, as the executive director of PRB and Lofty.
 Thank you, Paul. Again, David Clark and Mayor, Councilmembers, we appreciate your time this evening. We've been here before. For several of you, you've not heard any of this information from us. We were here in 2010 to talk about what's called projected insolvent. Under the Arkansas Fire and Police Pension Review Board, or PRB, which is one of the agencies that I work for,
 That board is tasked with identifying local pension funds such as the Fayetteville Fire Pension Fund when they have what's
 projected to be fewer than 10 years of assets left available to pay benefits. And when we were here in 2010, we presented a report at that time to give the local board and then the city council members a good indication as far as what was going to likely happen with the pension fund if there weren't some changes such as an infusion of
 of cash, better investments and so on, changes in mortality. Tonight the report is going to be quite a bit different from the 2010 report and Jody's going to be doing the bulk of the presentation but the primary point of me doing just the intro is letting you all know that we're actually charged as an agency under state law to present this information to you
 and then provide some possible alternatives for your consideration. And then obviously it's up to you then to decide what to do with that information. But with that, we also have, pardon me, in your packet, we have another report that has a LOPFI, L-O-P-F-I. That's the other board I work for, and that's the Arkansas Local Police and Fire Retirement System.
 Part of Jody's report is going to really dovetail into some of the information that's in that report, and that talks about consolidation. Pardon me. And that's where you assign the administration of the local fire pension fund over to LOPI for administration of the pension fund.
 and there are costs that come with that, and that will be part of, again, Jody's report. But you're gonna see both his report and then the cover letter with LOPI and then the report from the LOPI actuaries behind that cover letter. And so with that, I'm gonna go ahead and hand the presentation off to Jody. All right, and the report that I'll be going through and hitting highlights in this PowerPoint will be the one that says,
 The one that says Fayetteville Firefighters Pension Fund Special Report presented today. I got our Osborne Carrero and Associates and I have a few extra paper copies of that if anybody wants that, but I understand that you already have that electronically, so if anybody in the audience needs that, they can just sneak up behind me and grab one of those. Our firm has been the actuary for the Pension Review Board.
 for several years now. And as part of that job, we do the annual valuations that the city gets for the old local funds, which are firemen and policemen that were...
 hired before 1983 are in this old fund. So as you have already kind of guessed, everybody that's in this old fund or local fund, as I may call it, have already retired. And these are the ones that we're trying to make sure that we have that funded so that they can receive all of their benefits. So the purpose of what we're going to try to do the next few minutes then is to give you some ideas about the current status
 as far as financially, actuarially of the pension fund. What has changed since the last report, as David mentioned? We were here in the fall of 2010 and had a similar discussion. I'm sorry, I don't remember how many of you were on the board five years ago and how many of you are new. Some of you, this may be brand new stuff. I know the pension board guys have probably heard this several times.
 You may have to stop me and slow me down because I may blast on. But then we'll look at the projections, what we can expect the current fund to do, and also what the projections of a lofty consolidation might look like. First off, I'll show you just some recent valuation results. Here are some numbers that are out of the valuation reports from the last five years. You see the market value of assets.
 have continued to decline over the last five years, but the unfunded has went down some. So the liabilities, we expect the assets and the liabilities to be coming down, but the assets are going down too fast. And you see that the assets only cover now about 24% of the liabilities of the plan.
 Also, from the valuation report, not the report in front of you, but we always calculate a contribution amount, which is the old funds are, and we'll talk assumptions all the way through here, but the key assumptions that are different between the old plans that are local plans that are still locally administered and the local plans that are under LOPFE,
 administration, the big one is the interest assumption. You've got a 5% per year interest assumption in the old plans, but under LOPFI administration, since you're under the bigger umbrella, there's an 8% interest assumption. Under that 5% interest assumption and a five-year amortization, because all of the liabilities should be pretty close to being paid for, you can see that
 The plan would have needed over $3 million a year. The contributions that have went into the plan from the city are made up of millage and premium tax, and those total the amounts that you see there. So only about 24% of the calculated amount has been done.
 In the big report on page 9 and 10, there's a 10-year financial history that has a lot of good information. I'm not going to go through all of those numbers, but there's two or three that I think are worthwhile looking at. At the bottom of page 9, you'll see a number that's non-investment cash flow. That's all the income, less all the expenses before investment income is added. That number 15 years ago was a positive number.
 Now it's a negative number. You see, a few years ago, it went up a couple of years where there were some drop payments that went out that kind of inflated that number. But in the last few years, it's between $600,000 and $700,000. Okay?
 That's the outflow every year that the plan needs. I guess we could do a little quick and dirty math here. We need 600,000 out of investment income out of $5 million. That'd be about 12% a year. Later on, we calculate that more correctly, but you can see that you need quite a bit of investment income for those assets to do that.
 If you also look on page 10, you can see the asset trail. There's a line there that says market value of assets. And if you look from right to left, you can see that the assets have went from $9.6 million, almost $10 million, down to $4.4 million in the last 10 years. Another number that's good to look at is the ratio of assets to expenses, and that's just what it says it is. It's just the assets divided by what the,
 this last year's expenses were, and there's only three years worth of expenses there. You'd want that ratio to be eight or ten to be healthy. The average 10-year market return, you see that down in the bottom right-hand corner of that page, 5.63, but we're coming off of that after one of the best five years in the market, and that's what the plan was able to earn because of the money that was going
 The sources of income, back on page nine, the income that's coming into this plan, there's no longer any employee, employer match contributions. You look all the way back to the 10 year ago numbers, there were still some couple of actives involved in the plan, but it's been zero for several years now, so there's no longer any employee or employer match money coming in. So the big item is the local millage amount
 and you see that in 525,000 in 2014. If you look at the whole 10 years, it's about a little over 3% per year increase. If you look just at the last five years, it's only about 1.5%. Paul and I have been discussing that here recently, and he's going to do some more looking at that to see, but...
 But reasonably, over the last 10 years, 3% millage growth per year, 9% in the early years. But we know things have been ragged since 08. The other thing is the premium tax formula. There was a big change in the premium tax formula in 2011 session. One of the things for those that were around and heard all this discussion at that time,
 We were working with several folks and legislators at that time to try to come up with a new way to distribute premium tax that would help plans that were more poorly funded, and we were able to do that.
 Like anything, it's not perfect, but it did do part of its job, because if you look across that line on page 9, you'll see that the amount of premium tax plus the additional allocation has went up quite a bit. You're receiving in the last three years, this plan is receiving $100,000 more in premium tax than it was at this time five years ago.
 So, premium tax formula beginning in 2012 has been another area that is a positive note. We all know about the past benefit increases, but just to remind us, it's disclosed in the report there are some benefit increases. Then if you want to ask questions about that later, we can come back to that. The one thing I want to point out on this screen is...
 The bottom thing there is that in December 2009, it's been mentioned, the plan was declared by the PRB to be a projected insolvent and we met previously in October 2010 and presented some ideas and nothing really happened from that, but we tried to do our part there and give you some information. Changes since 2010.
 Flip back to the cover letter of my report, and on page two is where I talk about this, and just want to point out that if you went back and studied the 2010 report and looked at what kind of the base projection was for 12-31-2014, the unfunded liability was projected to be about a million and a half more than what it is.
 That sounds like a good thing, but we need to know why it was a million and a half more. There are three pretty good reasons. Number one, we've already mentioned the investment income. The last five years have been very good. We went back and calculated. There's about 900,000 investment income more than what was expected.
 And then, secondly, the premium tax law that I've already mentioned has produced over $100,000 a year more than what you were previously getting, so we've had a gain of over $300,000 because of the new premium tax law. And then the rest of it is what we call actuarial gains and losses. Have to do with a few more people died than what was expected during this particular five-year period.
 and those things, that's kind of in a reasonable range. Those things come and go, but you put all that together and you can explain that million and a half difference. So that's why it is. Now if you look at those things, the investment income being better than expected
 is probably not expected to continue that trend over the next couple of years. We're looking at a pretty tough 2015 right now and a lot of guys are thinking 2016 may be equally bumpy. So we've got that staring at us, so we're probably not going to see that over the next five years. The premium tax formula will continue to produce good numbers for several more years unless the PAM suddenly becomes better funded.
 Mortality, we never know. That's the one that we don't have any control over. So in a forward-looking mode, we do have that extra premium tax. The rest of this is kind of from the backward-looking mode. All right, so where is the plan headed? To look at that, when we do the valuation, we look at a point in time and we say on 12-31-14, here's the folks that are still alive.
 Here's the present value of their benefits. Here's the assets that we have and compare those. And we have this point in time valuation. We calculate funded percentages and all those wonderful things. What we're doing with this report or some of the things that we've done differently here that we do a yearly projection. And so that means a couple of things. Means that we have to project forward
 not only what the liabilities are, what the mortality and interest assumptions are, but project forward the income pieces. What are those going to look like? And then also, instead of just using a single interest rate assumption, we looked at the portfolio of this particular plan and said, okay, if the assets are invested in this fashion,
 then here's all the variations that might do that. Run that through a simulator that gives us a lot of different results. So then to take those results and try to have something to look at, these charts now are in exhibit two, which starts on page three. I think the first chart's on page four. But we got over 2,000 different varieties of results. And so to give us something to look at,
 We arranged all these results from the worst to the best, and then we drew lines that were 5% of them are below this line, and 10% of them are below the next line, and 25%. So we get some range of what that is. And it all ends up looking like this chart, which is, I think, page 4 of your report. And just looking from the bottom left-hand corner, you see the first red line, and that's the worst 5% of the results.
 In the worst 5% of the investment scenarios, the plan runs out of money in about seven to eight years. The blue line, the next line, is 10%, so the worst 10% of the results are there. The green line is kind of the middle. It's kind of the expected line. Half of the results are on either side of that green line, but you notice that it is showing at about 12 years that the plan would use up all of its assets.
 What we learn from that graph, it's kind of a big picture graph. So what's the big picture result? Well, the big picture result is that 80% of those results run out of money at some point in the future. With the current income stream, the current benefit stream, 80% of the time the plan runs out of money. And evidently that's not good.
 We also were able to learn by doing that that you can't earn your way out of it. And we actually went through and calculated what interest rate would have to be, and that interest rate would be 10%, but a 10% that has no risk of variance. So 10% CDs is what you'd have to have to earn your way out of this. So anyone that knows where to get a 10% CD,
 I need to talk to you after the meeting because it doesn't exist, does it? We can't earn that kind of money without that. Plus, as the plan gets closer to running out of money, you have liquidity issues. You can't invest all in the stock market. You have to have enough cash to pay benefits throughout time. You can't be as diverse as you might typically want to be diverse.
 There's two more graphs on page five and six and what we did with those two is to calculate how much money it would take over 30 years every year if the city came up with this many extra dollars, we could be 95% sure that the plan would not run out of money.
 and that number over 30 years was 150,000, the number over 15 years was 200,000. So the bottom line of those two graphs then is that to reduce the risk of running out of money down to 5%, which you want it to be zero, so 5% is about as close to zero as we can get, but
 in the simulation. To do that, it would take $150,000 to $200,000 more city money going into this fund. Evidently, you don't have that. So that's not a way to go about that. So in Exhibit 1, we talk about all the old plan options, page 1 and 2 of the report, and this is everything we've just discussed. If we maintain the current direction or if we add additional contributions,
 Neither of these are good choices. One of them, we run out of money and all of a sudden have to either substantially cut or do away with benefits. The other one needs to add more money than is available to add to the plan. Bottom line is those are not really good options. We have to keep looking at the other options to know what's there. We got to look at the LOPFI consolidation options.
 So when a local plan consolidates with LOPFI, what happens? Well, here's just the quick and dirty version. The plan assets are all transferred to LOPFI for them to administer and invest. The local pension board is dissolved. The agreement would be between LOPFI and the city boards.
 And the city board then would have to sign an agreement with LOPFI, and that agreement basically is, we'll pay the benefits that you told us everybody was getting if you pay the monthly rate that we tell you to pay. And so the city signs on that we're going to pay whatever LOPFI has for us to pay.
 And the benefits from that point then, LOPFI guarantees them. So even if the plan ran out of money after consolidation, LOPFI covers that. They just charge you whatever their rate is as time goes on. So what's the big difference again between LOPFI and how their payment plan works versus what we have with the local plan?
 Here's another big change from five years ago. Five years ago, Lofty had one way to consolidate, and that was to do a 15-year amortization. We already talked about the difference in interest rate going from 5% to 8%. That reduces the liability amount, so that makes things look better, and you have the better investment return of being with the big system. But you only had a 15-year possibility five years ago.
 or a 15-year mortgage was your only mortgage you could buy. But now, LOPFI has added a second opportunity, which is a 25-year. So they can do a 25-year amortization to add on here. So the full story is, to pay your LOPFI bill, here's what it is. Here's the thing. It can be 15- or 25-year amortization. It's a closed period, which means...
 We don't re-amortize for 25 years next year. We go down to 24, 23, 22, on down to zero. It is a level percent of pay. And I got a picture to show you what the difference between level percent of pay versus level dollar, because that's a little different than what we're all used to on an everyday basis. It's based on an 8% interest rate, as we've discussed, and, importantly, a 4% salary growth, overall salary growth.
 for the city, because what happens is
 The LOPFI actuary, we're not the LOPFI actuary, but we know what they do. The LOPFI actuary takes your regular LOPFI rates, you're paying this, and then they take this outstanding unfunded for the old plan, and then they come up with what a cost is, and they convert that to a percent of pay over all of your actives. Well, all your actives are in LOPFI, so it's just over those LOPFI actives. They come up with that rate that you have to pay.
 Now, the one difference I talked about is that it's a level percent of pay instead of a level dollar. All of our mortgages are level dollar. We pay the same amount every month, basically. But a level percent of pay is saying that whatever that additional percent of pay is, if all assumptions are met, that percent of pay stays level instead of the dollar stays level. The effect of that is that the dollar amount goes up every year.
 So what it might look like, your level dollar, like your mortgage or something, if it was a 15-year mortgage of a million dollars, you were making payments, you'd have to make payments that total 116,000 a month, a year, and you see that that number stays level all the way across, and the outstanding balance goes down pretty steadily all the way through. With a level percent of pay, here's how it looks different. It's bubbled up a little bit. You see it doesn't go down as quickly.
 It stays high for several years and instead of $116,000 you start off paying a much lower amount. Start off paying $92,000 but that goes up every year and by the end of that 15-year period the dollar amount of the payment is $160,000. So it's important when we look at loft fee consolidation for you not to look just at the first year number but at what the continuing numbers are and we're going to do that in just one moment.
 All right, I'm not going to do this. I'll let Paul go through and check these numbers later. If anybody else likes numbers, I'll send you this slide, and you can go home and go through this. But the idea here is just to show with this that if all the assumptions are met, the percent of pay stayed, in this example, 7.01%.
 Okay, if there was an actuarial loss in the first year Then you're unfunded goes up a little bit and you do that and you would recalculate And your your percent of pay would go up You can see that the second year payment went up and it went up as a percent of pay but what we're going to talk about in just a minute is If you if you met all the assumptions and you made a little extra payment in the early years, so
 So if there was no other gains or loss and you paid more than the rate, you'd be paying down your balance a little faster. That's just an example of how that works. That's kind of how the day-to-day works for them.
 I think we've kind of talked about all of that, except the middle point there is just to keep in mind that we need to pay down a little quicker on the front end. Because the initial numbers in the Lot Fee Consolidation Report, and our report lines up with that, are at or below what the contribution that the City put into the old plan last year.
 We have to look at more than just the first year because of that. Okay, the 15-year amortization option, that's there and we needed to calculate that and show that to you. Exhibit 3 talks about it, scenarios J, K, and L in the very back of the report show you numbers. We're not going to look at those right now unless you just want to.
 We did that with different millage growth assumptions, but even in optimistic growth assumptions, after the second or maybe third year if you were real optimistic, but the growth and millage piece, it doesn't keep up with the growth in the increase in the payment. So you would not, you would have to have additional money.
 Remember what I said, when you consolidate with LOPFI, you're agreeing to pay the LOPFI bill. The LOPFI bill would go up faster than what your sources of income would go up in all of the different ways that I did the 15-year. That's all I'm going to say about 15-year unless somebody wants to talk about it. Mayor. Yes, sir. Yes, John. Go ahead. What would the payment be on a 15-year amortization? Just give us the number. The number was the first year number.
 What's the average? If it's going to be a changing number, what's the average? What's it going to cost us per year? Let me look back at the right page in here, and it's got the numbers in here. And, well, I'm looking at scenario J. So it's page 35. The expected lofty contribution starts at high $700,000, and it goes to $1.9 million. Your current sources are $510,000.
 $530,000 from millage and about $200,000 from premium taxes.
 So you've got $750,000. So you're right at meeting it in the first year. But it goes from $792,000, $850,000, $890,000, $945,000, $997,000, all the way up to $1.9 million. So it goes up 4% a year on that 15-year. And that's why I said if you did that, you'd have to have more money for the plan almost from the get-go. You can't tell me how much that is.
 John, I have calculated that would be $40,000 next year more than we're paying now. What are we paying now? That would incrementally. We're paying now— 525 plus 221, 750, right at 750. $750,000 we're paying right now? Yes, sir, between premium tax and millage. Yes, sir. I'm not seeing the distinction between premium tax and millage. What's coming— Those are the two sources.
 Right now we're not paying any general fund money out of it. There is a dedicated millage that has to go to them. We don't have any options. And the same thing for the insurance money. It comes directly to them, does not go to us. It's not our money. All right, but this meeting is all about unfunded liabilities. Yes, sir. Okay, so something's going to have to come from our general fund, right? That's what you're suggesting, or are we going to cut benefits? I'm suggesting there's a way to do both.
 Honestly, that you can do it. That's the end? Yeah. You're going to have to hold with me just another minute or two, but I think we can show that. The 15-year amortization option is not going to do it because that's going to take more general fund money immediately, and it will grow, as you just mentioned. So we looked at several options on the 25-year.
 And those are all listed. The one that I want us to spend a minute or two on is on page 30, and we'll look at that in just a second. But you might want to get to page 30 because we'll look at that.
 We have the same situation. If you look at the LOPI consolidation report, it takes this starting number, about 540,000, and then increases it 4% a year, and you can look at theirs, and that's how it does it. What we have done is we've said, okay, if you do this longer amortization period, but you pay all the money you have now, pay down like you're paying a shorter...
 amortization, then that was credited to your account and the expected lot fee contribution goes up but not as high as it would in the way that the lot fee report showed it to you. If millage grows, if you look at page 30, if you're looking there now, the middle section
 Here's the market value at the beginning of the year. Here's the millage, and we expect that to increase about 3% a year, which is what it's done for over 10 years. There's an estimate of how the premium tax is going to behave over the next several years under the current premium tax formula. No additional voluntary, no additional for LOB fee. There's the expected benefits, the investment income at 8%, market value of assets.
 In the far, well, next to last column there, you see the expected law fee contribution. There's 543. I think the law fee report, it was 545. So, I mean, we're calculating the same thing they're calculating. And then as the unfunded goes down, then that's re-amortized over 24, 23, 22. And you see that the payments do go up in later years, but the millage has more than caught up with it by then.
 But that's only if that you do the 25-year amortization, you increase millage 3% a year, the property tax goes up by that much every year, and you pay all of those dedicated sources to LOPFI as they come in. Not pay 545 in the first year, pay the 750,000 that we were talking about. So we make a...
 extra payment on our mortgage, so to speak, every year. And since it's a 25-year, it gives us time for the millage increases to catch up with those increases in the contribution amount. Mr. Mayor. Yes. Yes.
 Just to clarify, when you're talking about millage increases, you're not talking about a 3% increase in the millage each year, but you're talking about a 3% increase in the revenue from the millage staying the same. Yes, I'm sorry. You're absolutely right. Thank you. You're absolutely right. The four-tenths mill stays the same, but we're assuming that the revenue generated from that would increase 3% a year. Thank you. If raised values have to go up 3% a year? Yes, sir. Yes. Over the last 10 years, they've grown over 3%.
 The first half of this last decade, they grew 8 or 9 percent a year. The last half of the decade, it was much less than that. The man that comes out from the county assessor's office to my house always guesses up. Yes. I think that's a pretty given. Jody, how do you say your last name? Carrero. Carrero. Mr. Carrero, are other cities in Arkansas having the problem we're having with unfunded liabilities? Yes, sir. In the last five years since the Pension Review Board started,
 Declaring various cities projected insolvent. Yeah. Broke, if you prefer. We've had a dozen or so that we've had similar meetings with them where we've said, here's the various options. Of course, the options are different for everyone. Some people have, they don't need quite as much additional money, so they just come up with some additional money.
 Many of them have found one of these options with allopathy consolidation that gives them the ability to pay off their unfunded in that fashion. But there's only about five left and we started with nine and it went up to 13 or 14. It's back down to five now, I think. So yes, we have and yes, we've worked through this with many of them and found a solution that's worthwhile.
 Were we the largest of the five? Little Rock Police was largest of them. Good. And they found additional money and consolidated. So they did a little of both. They took a drink from both bottles.
 and you're going to represent you're going to promote or recommend some hybrid solution for us in in a sense it is a hybrid solution because what what's in the what's in the report from lofty's actuary is just a straight sorry straight 25-year amortization which starts at 545 000 and goes up four percent a year for 25 years what i'm suggesting is that you put
 all of the $750,000 or whatever the amount is into the fund, even though the required payment is $545,000. You make these extra payments in the early years so that if you don't make the payments in the early years, then that loft fee contribution amount is going to be a lot more than what your sources are.
 At the beginning of your presentation, our first option was to pay $150,000 to $200,000 a year, which we couldn't come up with. Now you're suggesting we pay $750,000 a year. I don't know how we're going to get that money. Well, the $750,000 is the money that's already here, yes. It's already here? Well, that's the money. That's the sources you already have. That's the property tax, the four-tenths of a mil.
 property tax that you have, and a little over $200,000 that right now is coming in from premium tax money. So we don't have to pay anything out of a general fund? Ken? This is the only way. This is the only—there's a bunch of caveats, and I'll do that in a second. But this is the only way that I can see that you can use your current resources and your current sources of income to pay down this unfunded.
 Any other solution requires some general fund money. This is the only solution that I could figure out that does not require some additional general fund money. I'll put it that way. Jody, can I clarify a little bit? One thing.
 I think we're not coming to grips with this right now. We're bringing in roughly $750,000. That's the income coming in. We're paying more than that out to pensioners. We're paying over a million dollars out to pensioners. So what in fact is happening, John, is our investment balances are being used to pay pensioners at that point in time. So we're really not at a positive level.
 When he shows me $4.5 million in assets and $13 million in unfunded liabilities, that looks insolvent to me. It is. It's actuarially unsound. But on a payment basis, we're paying out roughly a half a million dollars more than we're taking in right now. So that's what is happening. That investment balance is being depleted. He is trying to recommend a solution.
 to reduce the depletion of the investment balance as much as possible. What Jody is offering us is an option that doesn't require any general fund money. I think that's a magician's trick. He's not done yet. Well, there's always a but. But in general, you're absolutely right. This is the one way that could work. Now, what we have to say,
 Lawrence, go back to my calculation table back here. The reason I put this up here, not to go through the particular numbers, but if investment returns are less than 8% for a couple of years, then there's an actuarial loss that gets assigned to your fund and that would push the rate up. If nobody dies, and we know how stubborn firefighters are.
 If nobody dies, you'll have a... That didn't even get a laugh? I'm sorry. I thought I'd get at least a chuckle out of that. But if nobody dies for a few years, you have an actuarial loss because you're assuming a mortality table and folks pass away at different times. So when that happens, it's recalculated and those losses are recalculated in and it pushes the rate up. On the other side of that, if there are investment gains,
 or if there are folks die faster than they're supposed to, or other assumptions are we have gains on our actuarial part, and kind of like the example in the last column, it reduces the unfunded, and therefore the required contribution goes down. But that's the point about there's no guarantees. This is based on best projections, best assumptions,
 how this is going to work, but it's not going to work exactly like this. There's going to be investment gains and losses. There's going to be mortality gains and losses. There can be changes in the salary. You may not give the firefighters any raises, not add any firefighters and not give any raises for a couple of years. And then the city salary doesn't go up, and that would push the contribution rate up some. So all of these things do fit together,
 I think what I'm trying to show you here is what is a conservative but best look at this, and then I'll show you some of the other possibilities as well so you understand. Scale of one to 10, 10 being most certainty. What in your estimation is the likelihood of achieving these assumptions for us to get there without bringing any money in from the general fund? 10 being most certain.
 would you give it a five does he does he do this to everybody man you're painting you're painting a very rosy picture which i don't think is realistic i think we're going to have to give some every assumption needs to to be discussed or thought about in that in that in those terms right the mortality assumptions uh i think are very good there's good experience studies to back those up we we kind of kind of have a hand on what mortality is going to be but
 With a small group like this, more people or less people are going to die. It's not a big enough group that they're going to behave exactly right. The investment returns, LOPFI's actuaries are suggesting that maybe they need to reduce their investment returns. One of the things that I did that I didn't include in the report is if LOPFI only earns seven for the next 25 years instead of eight, would you have enough money under this scenario?
 Under this scenario, you would still have enough money if Lopfe only earned seven for the next 20 years instead of eight. I would say that nothing's a 10. An actuary's never going to give you a 10, but I'd give this probably an eight. An eight? They're pretty solid assumptions there and got enough conservatism built in that there's something there.
 So it's a no-brainer, right? 80% chance of success doesn't cost us a penny. I didn't say that. That's what you're suggesting. And I wanted to kind of line this up, but if I line up all of your choices on what probabilistically is most likely, what this will cost you money and this will... This is by far the best...
 the best thing. Everything else either cost you money or cost you going to court or cost you additional general revenues. In a sense, it may not be the best of bad solutions, but it's the best solution that's available. It turns out to be a pretty good solution. If you believe that-
 you know, the millage growth can continue, the property value growth can continue at 3% a year over the long term, then this works. If you think that number's 2%, I've got a scenario back there for you, and you can look at it, and it will cost you money in 15 years. It'll cost general fund money in about 15 years. Could I ask you a question? Yes, sir. I know that these figures that you're starting with were from December 31st of last year.
 Yes, sir. And a lot of the assumptions are we're going to earn 8 percent a year. But, of course, this year the market's been down over 8 percent. So that's a 16 percent gap and it's reduced, obviously, the pension fund way much more than it would have been. And so does that not affect your scenario when instead of going up 8 percent, we've gone down 8 percent in our pension fund? Well, you're absolutely right.
 We're working on the end of 12-31-14. That's correct. I don't have current numbers to know where we're at as of today, so I'll just take your word for that. But it would affect that. It would have an effect. Now, what the LOPFE report says from GRS is that that's the guaranteed rate for the first year. So you have kind of a year...
 for that to even itself out. But then we have 24 more years. That's correct. Yes, Matthew. You said that the millage revenues increase of 3% per year is based on a 10-year history, is that right? Yes, sir. Do you know what it is over a 25-year history? I'm asking because over the last 10 years we've experienced some pretty major outlier years in our economy. Ups and downs.
 No. Paul, do you have any idea? I haven't calculated that for a year. I have more years in our data bank, but I don't have that with me. I haven't. I can see what I have and email it back to you guys. Mayor. Yes, please. My next statement is not dealing with actuarial reality and assumptions and interest rates and those and mortality rates. It's dealing with our firemen, our fire personnel.
 I'll say it again. Every time they get on that truck, they're risking their lives. We owe it to these retired firemen to fund their pension plan. I don't know of any similar obligation we have to the Walton Arts Center, but we're funding them all kinds of money. Meanwhile, our firemen retirees are wondering if they're going to get their pension plan. I mean, that's the stark reality of what we're looking at. We have to find the money wherever it comes from if we have to cut something, one of our pet projects.
 We have to fund the firemen. I think it's scandalous if we don't. And we may have cheap legal representation, but we don't want to go to court. This is something we have to find the money for. That's how I feel about firing police. Okay. What else? Yes, Sandra. Jody, you mentioned the mortality rate of the firemen. Yes.
 that if a fireman passes away and he's married, there's a very rich benefit plan. In fact, the widow gets as much as the retiree. So is that taken into consideration in your numbers? Yes, ma'am. We calculate that in and we know everybody that's married and we've got the fireman, firefighter and their spouse both taken into account in the mortality.
 We have to hope they die young and get divorced, right? Or something. No. I tried that joke. It didn't work for me. Yeah, I know. What questions do we have? Any more questions? Jody, from my perspective, I want this to be clear to the council, and you and I have discussed this. It is likely that the city is going to have to come up with some amount of money from the general fund to make this work. Is that not correct? If there are losses and if...
 millage property tax does not increase as it should, then there would be an increase, and that increase would have to come from general fund. But as you can see back on the page 30 that we looked at, there's a significant difference between the expected city sources and the lofty contribution in the early years. So if there are some bad bumps with investment return or other factors,
 other assumptions, there are several years for that to get back in line with the long-term assumptions before you would be in a position that you'd have to pay general fund money. The biggest risk factor that you have with this plan is that property tax growth does not go at 3% a year.
 If it only goes 2% a year, one of these scenarios shows that you have to come up with extra money in about the 18th year. And if it only goes 1% a year for the next 12 or 13 years, there would be extra city funds would be needed in about the 12th or 13th year. You believe that's a bigger risk than the investment return of 8%? Yes. I mean, we're measuring risk on, excuse me,
 We're talking about risk in terms of risking the city having to come up with more general fund money. Yes. In terms of coming up with more general fund money, the greater risk is property tax growth. Because like I said, if millage grows 3% a year and the fund only earns 7% a year under Lafayette administration, there's still enough money to make the payments with the current sources of income.
 There's not a printed one of that, but I did one of those. Correct me if I'm wrong, but in the period 2000 to 2010, we had negative returns in the market. Is that not correct? The market was basically zilch for that 10-year period. That's correct. So we are still projecting an 8% growth. You don't think that's risky? And this is rather unfair to you because you're not in it. Okay, number one, I'm not the Lafayette actuary.
 So it's kind of out of my thing to say whether or not that's risky. I'm just saying in my plans, I would rather be around 7% because if you look at the numbers, the long-term expected returns, right now long-term expected returns for a well-diversified portfolio are
 is in the seven to eight range. It's no longer in the eight to nine range like it has been in times past. So I would be more comfortable with my plans that I deal with, depending on the particular situation and how they're investing their money in the seven to eight range, closer to seven. But like I said, seven still works. But again, I'm not saying that's what Loeffy should do. I'm not Loeffy's actuary. I'm not their investment advisor.
 That's just a very general...
 comment. And I do apologize. That's rather unfair to you. I would just say as your chief financial officer, I am very concerned about whether we continue to earn an 8% investment rate. Looking at the economy, looking at the world economy, I believe that that's fairly aggressive. And again, I apologize, Jody. You're not an investment professional and I'm not either.
 Council does have to understand is we are taking the investment risk. If, in fact, we send it to LOPI and agree to pay for it, we are taking on the investment risk that we currently don't have. And I feel that's my responsibility to point out. Well, Paul, don't you think we have that investment risk whatever we do? No.
 it depends on whether we have a liability for the fund and i'll i can let kit speak to that yeah i don't want to talk about the finances as much because that's certainly not my specialty but i have looked at this very closely from a legal point of view and in reviewing this report that i received yesterday i noted one very important assumption which i actually believe is legally incorrect on page one of exhibit one under no changes
 The report states no changes the pension fund could continue on the same path as they are currently pursuing The base benefit project projection shows the pension fund would deplete assets in 2020 If you assume the city would then be responsible for the benefit payments, then the additional contributions needed Would be the benefit payments in excess of millage and premium tax and then under one of the negative consequences on the same page the actuary, uh states
 negative. If the fund did deplete its assets, the city is assumed to be responsible for picking up the benefit payments. This would be difficult for the city and would be a public relations problem. I don't know about public relations, but I think these are highly questionable assumptions by the
 These are absolute critical assumptions for you all to consider whether or not to consolidate the local closed pension plans with the state lot fee retirement plan, which covers most of our active duty fire and police. All of the members of the closed plan now are retired, and all of our active members are covered by the state plan, which we certainly must support legally. I believe the PRV assumptions are wrong and are made without any reference to any supporting state statute.
 that could require the Fayetteville's taxpayers to pay the debts of the independent Fayetteville police or firefighters pension and relief boards and their pension funds. I believe and opine for nine years now that, quote, the city of Fayetteville itself is not responsible to make pension payments if the pension fund goes broke. The pension board administers the pension fund and is responsible to make certain it remains healthy. That's a memo I wrote to the police pension board of trustees in October 4, 2006.
 I warned the Fayetteville Firefighters Pension Relief Board, my memo of April 28, 2008, that bankruptcy of the pension plan was coming. The result of such bankruptcy would be, quote, all pension benefits would then be drastically reduced, placing your pensioners in dire financial straits. Benefits must be reduced to sustainable levels very soon to avoid this train wreck scenario. The Fayetteville Fire Pension Relief Board is an independent organization
 of the Fayetteville City Council and composed of four retired firefighters, all of who are beneficiaries, and the Mayor as Chair and the City Clerk as Secretary. And quoting from the statutes, the Board thus created shall provide for the disbursement of the Fireman's Relief and Pension Fund and shall designate its beneficiaries as directed in the Act
 The Fayetteville Fire Pension and Relief Board is statutorily granted many powers, including dispensing money from the fund by majority vote, making procedural rules, compelling witnesses to attend and testify, administering oaths, dispersing revenue from the pension fund, hiring and paying trust administrators and financial advisors. I found out when I was a city council member how independent the Fayetteville Police and Fire Pension and Relief were back in 1990s.
 Even though the city had not levied any millage at that point in time Our local pension boards had been sued along with the school district and county for failing to roll back their millage in violation of Amendment 59 which is now article 16 section 14 of the Arkansas Constitution when the property valuations then had escalated over 10% a year, there's a Constitutional limit can't be more than 10% of they have to roll back. I
 I felt the proper defense by the school board, county and pension boards was too weak and so I suggested and thought we should accept a reduced settlement offered by the taxpayers' attorneys. So I drafted a resolution to do so and offered that at the agenda session. I was then properly informed that the pension boards were independent of the city and the city council and made their own legal decisions so my proposed resolution could not be considered. I understood and withdrew my request.
 A couple years later, my predecessor, then representing the pension boards, agreed to the final settlement of the Amendment 59 taxpayer suit, and I presented his documents for approval to the pension boards, not to the city council, to the pension boards. These agreements rolled back the millage from .5 to .4 for both pension funds and paid the taxpayers' attorney's fees.
 Later, when I believed the County Assessor had misread the tax increment financing statute and constitutional amendment and misallocated the property tax increment necessary to pay off the TIF bonds, I brought a declaratory judgment action to suit all entities receiving property tax millage, including the Fayetteville Fire and Police local pension boards.
 They were separate defendants. We were the plaintiff. They were defendants. These boards obtained their own lawyer, argued their side of the case, and received relief in the final judgment that resolved that case.
 The declaratory judgment suit was decided initially by the circuit court level, but was modified in the city's libraries and pension board's favor following appeal to the Supreme Court. Thus, it is crystal clear that both the Fayetteville Firemen's Pension and Relief Board and the Fayetteville Police Pension and Relief Board are legally separate and independent government entities from the City of Fayetteville. So why is it important that these pension plans are independent and separate entities?
 I'll get to that in a minute when I discuss the most important and costly suit ever filed against the city of Fayetteville. But now let's look at the state statutes governing local firemen and police and fire pension relief boards about what happens if the pension fund runs out of money. The statutes governing both the local firemen's and local police pension funds are clear about what happens if the pension funds become exhausted.
 Please note that these statutes that I'm about to quote do not say the city taxpayers are on the hook to pay anything more than their continuing millage. This first statute says that should the fund provided for in this subchapter be insufficient to make full payment of the amount of pensions to all persons entitled thereto, then the fund shall be prorated among those entitled by the proper authority as may be deemed just and equitable.
 For purposes of determining how to prorate benefits, the proration shall be considered just and equitable if the Board pays the full minimum benefit each month to all eligible beneficiaries until the assets in the fund are depleted for the fiscal year, at which time all payments shall cease until revenues are received for the next fiscal year.
 Or, two, the Board decreases all payments to all eligible beneficiaries by an equal proportion for the fiscal year and does not allow the assets of the fund become fully depleted. That's Arkansas Code Annotated 2411-807. The Local Police Pension and Relief Fund also is directed to prorate the benefits if the pension fund becomes depleted and insufficient to pay the full amount of benefits.
 I'm quoting again from the statutes. If at any time there should not be sufficient money in the fund to pay each person a full amount to which he or she may be entitled, the beneficiary shall be paid by prorating the fund available to them. That's Arkansas Code Annotated 2411-416, proration where found insufficient. And neither of these statutes that describe what is to be done upon bankruptcy of the pension funds are the city or the city's taxpayers even mentioned.
 Under current state law, it appears clear that the debts or lack of solvency of the local pension funds is not a Fayetteville debt, but solely the responsibility of the pension boards who actually have controlled these and increased their own benefits in the past and not decreased their benefits when there were problems.
 I believe that the review board and probably some of the firemen and police pension board members would like the council to assume liability for the millions of dollars of shortfall these pension funds caused when the original retirement benefits were raised by the boards from 50% to 90%.
 of ending salary plus other benefits. Not only would the millions of dollars eventually need to take money away from current employee needs, citizen services and capital improvements, but I'm afraid such a decision might be an illegal exaction under the Arkansas Constitution. The city learned a very hard and expensive lesson when we were sued by our sanitation rate payers over the city's attempt, illegal attempt, to pay off the failed incinerator bond issue.
 I studied this debacle which cost our citizens several million dollars in attorney's fees when it occurred and vowed to myself to try to prevent this reoccurrence during my service as Fayetteville City Attorney. The facts of the incinerator case and the current proposal to assume and pay the unfunded pension liabilities of our local closed pension plans are dangerously similar. The City of Fayetteville played a large part in both the creation of the Northwest
 Arkansas Recovery Authority and the Fayetteville Fire and Police Pension and Relief Boards. The seven directors of the Fayetteville City Board also occupied seven of the nine board positions on the Resource Recovery Authority. The Mayor and City Clerk are a minority on both our local pension boards, while the Fayetteville Board of Directors had a super majority on the Resource Recovery Authority.
 This recovery authority issued about $16 to $17 million in bonds in order to build and install the proposed incinerator. The two local pension boards have a combined actuarial deficit at this point in time, as projected by the board there, of around that same amount, $16 to $17 million, maybe even more. The Fayetteville Board of Directors, during a quick December 31st meeting, approved a contract required by the insurance company insuring the recovery authority boards, and this is what the Supreme Court said.
 The changes mandated by the insurance company would require the City of Fayetteville to unconditionally guarantee to collect sanitation fees from its citizens and then pay over from its sanitation fund a sufficient amount of funds to pay off the authority's obligation on a fixed rate bonds. The guarantee would be absolute and require the tipping fees be collected and paid over to the authority from sanitation funds without set off, abatement, credit or other reduction
 so long as the bonds remained unredeemed. Under the mandated changes, the city of Fayetteville could not terminate the agreement, even if the authority was in complete default. The Fayetteville city attorney at that time had recommended quick approval of this unconstitutional contract that was the basis of the illegal exactions determined by the Arkansas Supreme Court. And again, quoting from that case,
 The city attorney for Fayetteville certified to the insurance company and the amendments had been made were enforceable and Fayetteville was obligated to pay not only its own tipping fees but those of West Fork and Washington County as well regardless of whether the project was completed or functional and regardless whether the authority provided alternative facilities. I will not recommend to you to enter into agreement with the Arkansas Fire and Pension Review Board
 that could obligate our taxpayers to pay millions of dollars of pension obligations that are currently not our taxpayers' responsibilities beyond the .8 mils of property tax they must pay each year.
 The Arkansas Supreme Court determined that the authority is a separate governmental entity, even though its board was clearly controlled by seven members of the Fayetteville Board of Directors. Both local pension boards are also separate government entities, which have a small minority of elected government officials who obviously cannot control those boards.
 These boards are clearly controlled by the super majorities of the retired members and beneficiaries. Thus, these pension boards are even more separate and independent from the city than the Resource Recovery Authority, which was dominated by Fayetteville board members. The Supreme Court said, even though the City of Fayetteville had no obligation to pay the bonds,
 It assumed the debt of the authority, a separate governmental entity, and levied a charge against the residents to pay authority's debt. The city was without authority to levy that fee to pay the long-term debt of the authority. Thus, the ordinance imposing the charge was unlawful.
 The Arkansas Supreme Court further stated, we have long held that a city is not authorized to pay or assume the obligation of a separate governmental entity. The principal holdings in the incinerator case was that the City of Fayetteville was constitutionally barred from lending its credit by agreeing to pay the bond debt of the Northwest Arkansas Resource Recovery Authority.
 Unfortunately, the PRB is asking we agree to assume that debt of the millions of dollars in shortfall that these pension plans are now looking at. But this is not our legal responsibility, and I think we'd be in violation of the Constitution if we assume the debts of these separate governmental entities. The Supreme Court said it is undisputed.
 that under the terms of the waste disposal agreement, Fayetteville was unconditionally required to pay all of the debt of the authority, and we would be paying all the debt of the pension plans here if they are consolidated, even if Fayetteville received no services from the authority. This was a violation of Article 16, Section 1 of the Arkansas Constitution, which provides that no municipality shall ever lend its credit for any purpose whatsoever.
 I also could find actually no statutory authority to assign the local firemen's and police pension funds to the Arkansas Local and Police and Firemen's System, or LOPFI, except for the small funds states statutes that quote, cover fewer than five members. And those are ACA 2411-406 for police and 2411-804 for firefighters. Obviously, both of our pension funds have many more than five members,
 So it's even questionable whether we have statutory authority to do it. There may be other statutes under LOCTI that I'm not aware of, but the ones under our local police and fire pension plans don't seem to give that power. I believe that trying to assume the millions of dollars of actuarial debt of the pension plans is not only likely unconstitutional, but may not even be authorized to state statutes. There might be state statutes I'm not aware of.
 Accordingly, I recommend the City Council not attempt to transfer administration of the local pension funds to LOPFI, nor assume any of the millions of dollars of likely debt of these funds. That's my opinion as the City Attorney, that I think it's very questionable that we even have the power to do that.
 We're dealing with potentially millions of dollars, just like was done in the incendiary case, which might be enough to attract the attention of attorneys that like to sue cities for illegal exactions. And so I am concerned about that, and I'm certainly not ready to recommend that you take this step. Yes. Mr. Williams, thank you for giving us the legal analysis. We may not be legally obligated, but we are morally obligated.
 I will not hang these firemen out to dry. Gee, you should have chose more wisely when you chose your pension board. They ran it in the ground. We benefited from their service. We, the citizens of the city, benefited from their service. We owe it to them to pay those pensions. I would risk a lawsuit for those guys. We had testimony from Jody tonight that other cities have come up with solutions, or we could assume that they're illegal solutions,
 I would assume they're unconstitutional. I think courts would see a moral obligation, if not a legal obligation. I don't think they would declare us illegal for following through with what we are morally obligated to pay. I implore my colleagues on this board, stand by those firemen. Stand by their widows. Let's give them our full support.
 If we don't, we're sending a strong message to the current firefighters of this city. We're sending a strong message to the current police officers that we really don't care. You're on your own. Good luck. That's not what we want to do. That's bad for the citizens. That's bad business. Please stand by these firemen.
 Well, tomorrow we have a board meeting with the firefighters, so that will be at 8 o'clock. There won't be any decisions that need to be made tonight until after the board meets tomorrow and decides what they're going to present to you. I will probably walk something on the October 6th meeting. So we have enough time. It's an ordinance, so we can do it October the 6th, but I will walk that probably on.
 So a decision, you can make a decision early or you can, but we have to make a decision before the end of October. Is that correct, Paul? That's correct. Okay. Mayor, are we going to have any public comment on that? Oh, yeah, sure, sure. Yes, Matt. One housekeeping question I had is what's the current base rate for current firefighters on Loppe? The employer contribution rate for your Loppe firefighters is 24.5% of payroll.
 And what's the payout rate as a percentage of their pay when they retired? That depends on their years of service. The benefit structure under LOPB, the new system, if you will, is a much different design than it is under the payout structure for the local pension fund. Under the LOPB system, it's based off of their final average pay, which is the highest 36 consecutive months in the last 10 years of employment. A retirement multiplier of, you see here, it's a program, too, so it's 3.28%.
 then times the total number of years of service the more service they accrue the higher their benefit becomes so can you give me a median I'm trying to get a benchmark because I read in
 on the history of where benefits have gone, that we've got a base rate payout of 90%. So I'm trying to benchmark against that. So I understand the system may be more complicated. Can you give me a median? Yeah, it's roughly about between 91, 92% is the average. Again, I wanna have the caveat, if I may, of the years of service is the driver of that. Mayor, if I could add one other point. Sure, sure. Is that LOPI does administer 164 other local pension funds in the state.
 There are still 122 that are locally administered. Two of those, of course, is Fayetteville Police and Fire.
 The provision to be able to assign administration for those plans that are greater than the five members that Mr. Williams mentioned to you is under the LOPI section of code. Now, I didn't realize that portion would be a pop quiz. I don't have that. It's a 2410 and 300 series, I believe is where it's parked at in the LOPI section of code. But there is a provision that allows LOPI to take over the administration of a pension fund if the city enters into the agreement with LOPI.
 And on the PRB side of the equation, you remember I work for two boards, Palafi and PRB. The PRB has taken the exact position, sir, that you have, and that is that there is a moral obligation. Now, I'm just telling you, I'm here to represent the PRB, so I'm speaking for my bosses.
 is that they do see that there is a moral obligation, and they have raised the question too, whether or not the proration provisions that are in state statute, if once those are tested in court, if they would actually meet the state constitution. And so nobody knows that because they've not been tested in court, and hopefully nobody will do that. As I said, 164 plans have already assigned administration, meaning that those locations,
 whether you're Fort Smith, we have Hot Springs, I'm just trying to think of the larger ones. Little Rock Police is the largest one that Jody mentioned earlier. They have actually stepped up and entered into agreement to protect the benefits of those local pension fund members.
 Thank you. Also, David, I have, I know I have a lot of members of the retired police department here. They face not as critical a situation, but a similar situation. So we're dealing not basically with one pension plan, but maybe two. Yes, sir. Yeah, I'm aware of that. You bet. Thank you. Yes.
 Now, we'll take some public comment. Now, everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You know the rules. Particularly you police officers should know the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone and address your comments to me. And I can't think of anything else. Unless the council member brings you back up, you get one turn at the microphone. All right? All right. Who would like to be first? All right.
 First of all, thank you, Mayor. Let me apologize for my dress. I just got off an airplane from D.C., so I just come straight up here, so let me apologize for that. Secondly, let me say I agree with almost everything Mr. Latour said as far as there's an obligation out there. There's always the but. I'm not sure that the consolidation is the right way to do it. I don't know that I have the answer to what the right way is. And when I first started hearing about this,
 Several years ago and David or Jody come out like something correct, please correct me because I'm not the expert here several years ago People on lot be firing police most contributions went from six percent to eight and a half percent that happened several years ago so I was concerned that I
 The new pensioners that started after 1983 would be supplementing the old pensioners. I had a conversation with David. He set me straight that that was not the fact. Even though they were together, there would basically be two sets of books kept with the old pension and the new pension. So after talking to David, I felt better about that part of it. Mr. Petty, to address your question, I'm going to clear up a little something David said. We switched to Lot B2 in October 2002.
 So for anybody that worked prior to October 2002, their multiplier is 2.94% for the years they worked prior to
 2002 years after 2002 it's calculated at 3.28 percent so to get that 91 92 percent number that would have to be somebody that spent their whole career on lot fee too so obviously we're years away um from that happening so i just wanted to clear that up um jody please don't take this the way it's going to sound uh he showed a slide there of benefit increases that had happened over the years i'm pretty sure his firm
 Approved I don't know if approved is exactly the right word each one of those his farm either done some kind of cash value Study or an actual actuary that approved those benefit increases I'm sure those benefit increases were based on Numbers he had in front of him in time my point is we don't have a crystal ball because obviously I don't think he would approve those back all those years ago and
 for the plan to now be in solvent. So I'm just, I'm trying to, I think, at Paul's point of the 8%, the 3%,
 Obviously, whatever numbers Jody used back all those years ago, the numerous times that he'd done that, those have not held true. I don't think the plan would be insolvent today if those numbers had held true. My final point I'll make, even though the books are set, if we do this, the books are kept separate, the bottom line is money out of general fund. I have, obviously, I think we all here would agree, whether you're sitting up there or any city employee behind me, that a general fund is a pretty maxed out, tapped out.
 And it just concerns me about future operations, the future pay raises, which is also a part of this, that if we put any more stress on general fund, it's going to be very hard to continue to operate the way we're used to and to give the 4% pay raises that's required to make this plan work as detailed. Chief Tabor. Yes, sir.
 On a scale of one to ten, ten being perfect certainty, what chances do you give this plan of us getting through this without any money coming from general fund? Jody gave it 80% chance of success. I am not qualified even in inkling to make some kind of guess like that. Your educated discourse you just gave would suggest otherwise.
 well i would say if the plan continue if it's consolidated and continues as it is then there is probably no chance for it to survive without some supplemental funds from somewhere so zero zero okay would be my guess but that's all it is i think your plan yeah i think your estimation is more realistic
 Thank you. Mayor, Chief Taper, do you have the same widow benefits as the old plan? The difference is, and David correct me when I'm wrong here, under the old pension plan that Fayetteville has, there is one spousal benefit.
 There's no options in lot the we have 4 different options that you can take and based on which one of those you take your the difference in age between your spouse your benefits are decreased based on which plan you take in the difference in age of you and your spouse. Thank you. Right. All right. Thank you. Councilman and mayor for sitting through this meeting.
 I've served on our pension board for the Fayetteville Fire Fund since 1983. I came on the job in 79, and I didn't really know how to spell or didn't know what a pension was. I have educated our members and myself on these benefits, and we have, yes, we have increased benefits. Inflation has taken its toll on our members. I know of one member that retired in 1968 that was drawing less than $300 a month.
 We do not pay Social Security. We do not receive any Social Security benefits. This is our pension. This is what we live on when we leave employment. I implore you, I think Jody has done a great job explaining this to you tonight. I don't see where it's gonna cost a whole lot of money. And if it does, it will be 15, at least 15 years down the road, 14, 15 in that area. And it doesn't look like it'll be that much if his projections are true.
 I thank you for your time. If you have any questions, I'll be glad to answer. What is your name? Peter Reagan. Reagan? Yes, sir. As in president? As in president. I never did get to stay in the Lincoln Room, but. Thank you, Peter. He's a little different. Thank you. All right. Who else? Anybody else? Okay. I'm going to bring you back to the council. Now, I want to ask, you all leaving back for Little Rock tonight, I want to ask a couple questions. Are you going to be here tomorrow or you're gone? Okay.
 One of the questions I got was on page three. I just need some clarification. And I've been on record, if this can be sent down to Lofton without any cost to the city, I was okay with that. But I want to note this on page three, and I just need you to explain this to me. It says, note that the results shown in this study are projections and not predictions. The results of our projections depend, of course, upon the actuarial assumptions being mapped.
 The actual results will, and this is big capital, will vary on a year-by-year basis from the projections. So I guess my question would be if you don't hit the projections, you will review this year-by-year? I'm just asking. Well, we would not review it year-by-year, but there would be a yearly valuation from the Lopfe Actuary that would show
 where the plan is at that time. It would show what gain or loss that there was from the previous year. But that doesn't necessarily mean that the payments to the city would go up, or does that mean it would? That's my question. I mean, if there are actuarial losses, then the payments would go up.
 Okay. What I attempted to explain was that there is a significant cushion with the 25-year amortization between the current sources of income and the required payment. So the required payment can go up that it could withstand some losses. Do you have any idea how much loss that could be? You know, I did some things. As I mentioned, I went through and
 If Loppe assumed earned 7% a year instead of 8% a year, with the 3% millage increase assumption, the city still had the current sources of income to make the payment. Let's say it dropped to 5 or 6, we would be in trouble. I didn't do that, yeah. Okay. I don't know where the breaking point is. I can find out and send it back to you. I'm just trying to figure out what I'm going to do here. Okay.
 I need to know, like, if it, like, I know that our current plan is not hitting five. What's it hitting, Paul, about four point? It's in the three to four area, depending on when you do the exact evaluation. We're talking about a larger pool of money, correct? Yeah, you're talking, the lobby system's got about $1.7 billion in a well-diversified portfolio. So you're all hitting about 8%, 9%, right? Yeah.
 I don't have those numbers. Over the life of the system, it's been over 8%. Okay. Yeah, I'm just trying to get my head wrapped around if, how sure the 8% is. Over the life of the system, it's 8.4, yeah, 8.4 or 8.45. Over the, and that goes,
 1983 forward. It's easier to meet those investment goals with the larger fund because you have the opportunity to be better diversified and use good investment principles. Yes, sir. I mentioned that earlier that this fund gets more and more cash, and so it's going to be harder and harder. Okay. What would be your projection would cost us if it did go down to lofty this year? You surely have that.
 Yes. Oh, yes. That is in their report and it's in our report. It's about 545,000 for the first year, which would be 2016. Your projected sources are? 750. Around 750. Right? You said earlier it would be 12 or 13 years before we have to put out any money, our general fund. Probably. With a 1% millage increase. Okay. If everything hits the projections.
 We have to make a decision based on something. Yes, I don't disagree with you. Yes. I don't expect to have it tonight, but I would like to see one piece of information, which would be historical year by year performance, a lot fee. Great. Thank you. And I would also encourage the police that we do a study there and see what we need to do with the – I know we can't do it this year, but into the future. Okay.
 We'll look at that as well. I don't know what, I wanna know what we're gonna do on all this. Okay, anything else? Thanks, Joe, you're pretty much. Anything else from the council? I know that we can't even make a decision until the board makes a recommendation tomorrow, correct? And then it comes back to the council and I will probably walk it on next Tuesday with everything else. What does that add up to, about 38 items on that agenda?
 I don't have anything else. But thank you all for your time, and thank you all for coming very much. And we're adjourned.