And 16. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Here. Gray. Here. Mark. Here. Here. Here. Kay. Here. Kenneth. Here. Sutler. Here. Lutheran. Here. Mayor. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the
 of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. And the first order of business we have tonight, we have a presentation by Jeremy Pate of Development Services. Jeremy. Thank you, Mayor and Council.
 We've been preparing a presentation for you all for a little while to talk about sort of what we're doing in development services right now. And so I'm going to have Chris go through some slides and this should take hopefully 25 minutes or so.
 The purpose of this presentation is to give the council some insight into your development services team, particularly the side that concentrates on development review and our codes. As you all may know, I lead a team called Development Services. We provide public design consulting, permitting, and inspection services. We design and manage construction of public infrastructure projects. We facilitate our citywide and neighborhood plans, and we also provide community services through code compliance, community resources, and our animal shelter.
 Tonight's discussion, however, is about one half of that department, the development half. Ideally, you will leave here knowing more about how the policies you adopt through City Plan 2030 help to determine what ordinances are brought to you for consideration. Excuse me.
 how rules are implemented and why we make some of the recommendations that we do. I also consider this as a kickoff of sorts to a larger conversation we'll be having next year as we embark upon an update to City Plan 2030. We've been, we've had City Plan 2030 for five years now. We update our comprehensive land use every five years and so we'll begin having that conversation next year.
 As I mentioned a couple of agenda sessions ago, every two years we begin to hear more and more about the development review process, staff and council members, how it's broken and needs replaced, what ordinances work, which ones need overhauled and removed altogether. It's especially apparent during the four-year election cycles, when there are more officials and candidates running for office than any other time. Having been a part of the city for seven election cycles now, it's a clear pattern of behavior that we've noted over the years.
 I'm not saying that's a bad thing. In fact, we always need to be discussing and assessing our processes to improve upon them in any given year under any leadership.
 I'm a firm believer that the work on city codes and our review and inspection processes is never ending. We can always be better. At the same time, I also believe it's only fair to establish the right types of expectations for you all as elected officials, for candidates that are out there, for citizens that are listening, and staff who ultimately usually bears the brunt of criticism for a development review process. We take our direction from the mayor, who is in turn implementing the policies and regulations that you all adopt as a city council.
 Citizens elect officials for many reasons. In Fayetteville, the leaders elected over decades now have adopted new regulations to protect our hills and streams, to preserve tree canopy and expand parks, to enforce higher design standards for stormwater runoff, to protect our drinking water primarily, to enact urban design standards, neighborhood master plans, to set out a vision for how our neighborhoods will respond to development pressures.
 We've invested in trails and sidewalks, a comprehensive sign ordinance and so forth. Over time, those changes and ordinances have made a difference in what we look like and what we feel like as a city and why we are set apart from others and in large part why we are ranked in so many ways that we are. The point is yes, we must acknowledge Fayetteville can at times be more difficult and time consuming to develop in than some other cities. The question really is why?
 Part of it's because we are an engaged city with citizens and neighbors interested in how the fastest growing city in the state is changing on literally a daily basis. They show up to meetings and are allowed to express their opinions unlike some other places that don't allow public comment until after the decision is made.
 My inclination is to own that distinction. Our recent economic development consultant advised us to do just that as well, to own that the reason we are ranked consistently better and better nationally is because we care about sustaining our sense of place as Fayetteville, our quality of life here, and leaving this place better than we found it. To own that, to have a quality product, it takes time, and our special places, both built and natural, are worth it.
 One way that we acknowledge we could reduce this criticism and speed up the process would be to repeal a lot of our ordinances, the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District, our tree preservation ordinance, the parkland dedication ordinance, streamside protection, to reduce our commitment to water quality and creating good places through urban design solutions.
 Removing these items would undoubtedly reduce our review time. It would allow us for have reduced inspections and faster permitting But to me most of the folks who've sat in your chairs That's not really Fayetteville. For Fayetteville to be first it requires us to step out there and test the waters Sometimes try something new when the situation demands it. In private business you differentiate yourself to have a competitive advantage. I
 Fayetteville is competitive nationally in so many ways for that very reason. And as you all know, you've heard me say, if it isn't working, we'll keep trying. You've also heard me say on several occasions I'll be the first to bring something back if it's not working.
 For the past couple of years, the mayor and staff have been regularly meeting with the local Home Builders Association group to talk through projects, codes, and questions about development and permitting. It's been a very productive conversation, in my opinion, resulting in revisiting some of our ordinances, tweaking some of our procedures to better match the intent with the practice. We've also used these opportunities to educate builders and developers about what we're expecting, and they've used the same venue to educate us about how what we do impacts them.
 We don't always agree on every issue, not every meeting goes extremely well, but that's not really the point. The point is that we communicate and we try to improve. We also attend Chamber of Commerce committees and multiple committees to discuss development practices, new ordinances that are being discussed. We update them on development items and talk about our infrastructure work because all of those things impact the work that they're doing in their respective development community.
 In December of last year, the mayor asked us to begin a more focused series of conversations, reaching out to a diverse group of the development community.
 We've had several input sessions since then to assess where we could find common concerns and a consensus around topics from a diverse group of individuals. We've been wading through some of the one-off issues. A lot of times you all hear about that. Here's a specific issue. Can you deal with it? Does it require a code amendment? A lot of times we can just address that specific issue, and we never hear about the same type of issue again. But sometimes there's a consensus around a topic that really does need to be revisited.
 Some of the topics that have come out of our input meetings include the drainage criteria manual. It's overly complex, it needs more flexibility. The tree preservation ordinance. Some feel like urban foresters need more discretion, some feel like they need less discretion. More effort should be taken to reduce and remove electrical lines during projects. Single family home permits are handled very well, but commercial permits need the same type of project management experience.
 We need regular roundtable meetings to discuss ordinances and how they work. The main concern is not necessarily always the standards, but the process. Who's going to come out of the woodwork to complain? The climate created by the council is negative to business. It's unpredictable. Planning commission and council have different answers. Depends on who you are and who you know. City attorney gets involved at both levels. It gets really confusing who we're supposed to work with.
 Small projects are the future. One size fits all doesn't work. We need more east-west street connections. How can staff be given more ability to make calls in the field related to changes in construction plans? We're receiving resubmittals after first rounds of comments result in new sets of comments. How can we resolve that? This kind of goes on and on and on.
 As you can tell, there's a lot there to digest. That's exactly what we're doing. We've been doing that since December. Some of these new codes were actually updated in a recession over the last few years and staff, when staff and the council had more time to talk about these issues. Unfortunately, developers weren't as engaged during that time. Now that development is back, folks are becoming more interested in communicate when things impact them.
 The challenge now is that we don't, as staff, always have the time to stop helping customers get their projects through the process than to go back and revisit a large policy or an
 or research changes to a code. The flip side of that also is we hear from citizens who think the ordinances aren't stringent enough, that we need, when trees are coming down a lot, why are they coming down, why weren't more preserved? If runoff from a development in Walker Park starts to impact their neighborhood, why was that approved? Or when roads are getting congested because of commercial development or a new subdivision. It's a very difficult balancing act, as you all know, and something we strive to deal with daily.
 Some of these items we can and already have begun addressing. We recently had a focused and very productive meeting to discuss the drainage criteria manual as one topic. We got really good feedback on how we can improve that manual both through administrative actions, which we've already made some, but also some ordinance conversations that we'll be bringing back to you for consideration.
 Not everything on that list can be changed, obviously. We're not going to disengage with the public in Fayetteville, for instance. We're east-west corridors and placing electrical lines underground are long-term projects that take significant capital investment. But we believe it's a good start and this kind of roundtable focus group approach seems to be working.
 There are a few things I want to highlight we've done over the last year specifically to try and make things more accessible, particularly where there are confusing or complex ordinances, many of which may cross reference one another. Council members Marsh, Petty, and Kenyon have all mentioned here in council meetings this very issue, and we've tried to address some of those.
 The city staff has created an updated development manual which is on our website. It's a PDF. Anyone can access it directly from the city's website to identify some of the specific topics where we see the most questions or the most hang-ups in the development review process. Things such as form-based codes, what streamside protection is, what are minimum street design standards, and low impact development.
 Another document that's been created is the Tree and Landscape Manual. This has been entirely rewritten over the last year to graphically illustrate the review process, what applies where and when.
 Staff streamlined a document that had over 200 pages down to 27 pages. It's a graphic manual that focuses on developers in the development process while still giving citizens the right information about urban forestry. This new manual helps developers navigate the development review process related to tree preservation and landscape requirements.
 The last thing I'd like to mention, an improvement that we've made digitally is something we're hearing a lot of positive input, and I want to thank the city clerk's office actually. Our Muni code system, which we converted our city code to this last year, is an accessible online searchable code. This move was spearheaded, as I mentioned, by Sandra's team. It allows the code for the very first time in the history of Fayetteville to be a searchable, downloadable document.
 available for users in a much more user friendly code reference. You can simply type in, Chris just typed in drainage, it's going to pull up every reference to drainage within the unified development code. You can go specifically to where you want that. You can download just that section or the entire code, whatever you're looking for. I also want to take the opportunity to talk about the perception Fayable has about being unfriendly to development as Mr. Latour mentioned at our agenda session.
 Some people have never met a development they didn't like. Other people don't like any development they see. That's Fayetteville. The hardest place to live, obviously, and you all know this, is between those two. We at times hear anecdotes of someone having a tough time on a project or having something take a really long time to get approved.
 that the available standards are tougher than other cities. Maybe they cost more money. Sometimes it runs a developer out of town. We've all heard these. But when we recently asked, and granted, some developments don't work out here for a variety of reasons. Some of those can be attributed to the city and should be addressed when we see them
 Some of those can be attributed to the developer or consultant that simply didn't take the time or effort to communicate or to learn what to do and how to do that within the city of Fayetteville. But when we recently asked businesses, entrepreneurs, and residents, 1,600 of them, how they find Fayetteville as a place to do business, we see a very different result.
 As you can see on this chart here, overwhelmingly the data shows we are a positive or very positive place to do business. The reality is that most cities hear this complaint from time to time. I can tell you have heard this very complaint about every city up and down the corridor talking to my peers in every city. In Fayetteville, we clearly can continue working on improving our systems, our codes, and our customer service. But there's also a reason we're the fastest growing city in the state.
 We ran some statistics on our permit review times and how we're doing as a city over the past five years 2012 to date To illustrate the success rate for development in Fayetteville What we can tell generally is that despite the perception fable is difficult to develop in our permit and development numbers continue to grow exponentially
 From 2012 to now, there have been almost 1,700 new single-family dwellings permitted. That represents $80 million of construction valuation in just single-family homes in the last five years. We've seen increases in permits issued year over year and are estimating we will issue close to 400 single-family permits this year.
 in 250 working days. Our average permit time for single-family permits has continued to decrease substantially since we reorganized duties in the front office and dedicating a person to process and reviewing specifically single-family permits. 80% of our single-family permits we receive, which is by far the volume that we receive, are out of the door within 10 working days. We've issued 132 permits so far in five days or less this year and 30 on the same day that it was received.
 Development Services has also permitted in the same amount of time over 2,700 multifamily permits in that same amount of time and there are another 800 in the queue currently. That accounts for almost 8,000 new beds in Fayetteville. If you'll remember the Downtown Master Plan back in 2004, those of you who were participating in city government at the time, and then the council's goals to increase housing in our downtown and core areas,
 I'm happy to say 2,800 of those 8,000 are within walking distance of downtown or university campus, creating more feet on the street to support our small businesses downtown and Walker Park and the Mill District area. Two new grocery stores opened over the last year, one of which is within walking distance of City Hall and another that's a regional draw, serving residents from here to Bella Vista.
 Over 2 million square feet of new non-residential space, that's commercial, institutional, industrial and office space, has been added to our city in the last five years, providing businesses the needed space to locate and to expand into the Fayetteville market.
 As you can see, permit revenue is exceeding projections significantly this year. We came close to passing the $1 million mark at the end of the second quarter. That's as fast as my 13 years we've seen that type of revenue that quickly. Revenue has also been strong year over year, as you can see. So far in 2016, the planning division has taken in over 300 development applications for review. 74 of those went to the planning commission.
 96% of those were approved or afforded by subdivision committee, 82% by the planning commission were approved or recommended for approval to the city council. Of the four rezonings that were denied by the planning commission and appealed to the council, you all overturned two of those. My point is the great majority of items that makes its way to staff, planning commission, and council are ultimately approved.
 how we make recommendations for code amendments and certain items that come before the council's based upon several factors not the least of which is city plan 2030. the city plan is a document goals are here behind you that was adopted by the city council unanimously in 2011. it describes the six basic principles by which we responsibly grow into our future for the most part since these six goals were adopted first in 2006 our first city plan effort
 and then refined in 2011, we've used them to help guide our decisions. To be clear, I often have to say this to citizens, they're goals, they're not regulations. They establish the framework and the policy guidance, and it also gives us specific tasks to accomplish over time.
 So when we bring you an ordinance to consider, like a zoning decision, like cottage housing for instance, revised parking ratios that we talked about this year, higher density single family districts, zero lot line development, urban design standards, all those are an attempt, our best attempt, to implement the plan that you've adopted for us to follow.
 These things don't always get approved, just like all the rezonings don't get approved. You've all voted for and against rezonings on your time at council. You've all voted for and against certain code amendments on your time in council. There's nothing at all wrong with that because even beyond the city plan, there are other factors at play which must be respected and carefully considered.
 What I'd like to do though in my role as Development Services Director is show some examples of how our city has responded to these goals, both in the public and private sector over the past five years. In my opinion, the city has very successfully utilized City Plan 2030 to continue moving Fayetteville forward. It's no coincidence that the hard work put into maintaining and improving upon our quality of life is being nationally recognized, and I think we at times forget to celebrate that.
 The first and second goal are integrally linked. They are making appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority and also discouraging sprawl. As we grow in population, and we want to be more efficient with the resources that we have to invest in the areas that we know we're going to grow and where we want to see that growth, there's a clear connection between our master plans, the zoning that we put into place that allows appropriate infill development, and private investment that's followed.
 Much of this development would not have been permitted under some of our old rules, and we continue to update those rules to the best of our ability, to anticipate all sorts of creative development patterns and spaces that even a few years ago wouldn't have met our codes, wouldn't have been considered, would not have been allowed. The third goal is to make traditional town form the standard. This goal is about making sure our neighborhoods are complete, compact, and connected like traditional towns were developed.
 This enables small businesses and startups to start in less capital intensive spaces and to find natural customer bases within the surrounding neighborhoods. As we've discovered with our recent economic development strategic plan, our downtown is alive with startup companies and ideas wanting to be in the center of it all. We are all creatures of habit. Most of our trips out beyond our homes or work tend to revolve around patterns of behavior.
 We tend to go to a coffee shop, a restaurant or a bar, a church, a bakery, or convenience store that's most convenient, often closest to us when it's available. Providing more of these opportunities in close proximity opens up more convenience to residents and more opportunities for economic development. Zoning decisions play an important role in creating town form as well.
 City planning recently brought forward updated commercial residential and mixed-use form-based zoning standards, and most recently removed parking standards for commercial development. We've modified some of our existing districts to make them form-based as well. Now almost half of all the zoning districts we have in the city available are form-based, in keeping with the council's direction through City Plan 2030 to make traditional town form the standard.
 Because this variety of options has a greater have a greater potential to result in the form we desire, they're encouraged with most, not all, zoning applications where it's appropriate. We have seen development in form-based zones used more and more frequently since then, with a high approval rate by the Planning Commission and City Council. The fourth goal is growing a livable transportation network. As you all know, we've embarked upon an update to our master transportation plan. It's called a new mobility plan that kicked off earlier this year.
 As the last phases of the transportation bond program are upon us, it's imperative that we reevaluate our needs, where we need to invest our capital resources, and how to most wisely use those resources for all modes of transportation. Infrastructure investment, as you all know, has been the calling card of the mayor since 2009, and we've seen their fruition of multiple projects being completed over the past five years with the city council's support.
 From downtown revitalization projects like the addition of sidewalks to College Avenue, a fully rebuild of Center Street by our Transportation Department leading to the square, to completing major streets that provide north-south and east-west connectivity where there was none before, like Van Ash, which was recently completed, and Ripple Road, which will open within the next month.
 relieving congestion and providing more options for travelers to access our regional shopping destinations in Uptown by the flyover project a commitment to historic preservation by the Rehabilitation of two bridges on the National Register the variety of these projects represents the needs and desires of our community clearly show in the priorities the mayor and City Council sets a
 The trails program has received a large push from matching foundation grants over the last five years, allowing us to grow the trails network to 40 miles and providing a dollar for dollar match for our citizens investment. We have much more work to do, as evidenced by some of the recent input meetings, but we are literally miles ahead in trails, streets, sidewalks, and bike lanes than we were five years ago.
 The fifth goal is to assemble an enduring green network. When it comes to quality of life amenities, it's hard to beat the commitment to open space, to parks, trails, and recreational opportunities that Fayetteville offers. With some of the largest recreational programs in the state, and some of the most beautiful park settings, thousands of parents and kids are afforded the opportunity to visit our 4,200 acres of parks and over 70 miles of trails.
 stewardship of the environment runs in the DNA of Fayetteville, as evidenced by the commitment to providing green space for citizens to enjoy.
 In addition to public lands, many of our commercial and residential green space regulations for private development are unique to Fayetteville because of the hillsides, the streams, and the unique setting we enjoy. The desire to replenish what we remove and reflects the wishes of voters who elect those sitting in your chairs. Clearly these rules have impacts upon how projects are reviewed, how they're approved. We have to acknowledge that in order to maintain those high standards, they have to be enforced, which takes time and it takes staff resources.
 The result, however, can be amazing spaces and a competitive advantage over other cities that don't choose to place a priority on maintaining their sense of place. One of the feathers in the cap of the Enduring Green Network that deserves specific mentioning is the acquisition, preservation, and development of Kessler Mountain as part of our urban forest. This purchase and adjacent development of the regional park pulls together one of the more unique park settings in the state. 600 acres of recreational sports fields and a conservation area with hiking and mountain biking trails.
 Truly a legacy acquisition, this is our generation's Wilson or Gully Park, a treasure in our backyard whose preservation will be talked about for generations to come. The last goal is to create opportunities for attainable housing.
 The City of Fayetteville doesn't build housing and we have a limited set of tools to make long lasting impacts on the cost of that housing for our citizens. Generally that's a function of market forces. Though the regulatory environment does play a part, the cost of land generally and infrastructure to serve a home has a much greater impact on the cost of a home.
 The market has recognized the need for housing at all levels, and there are good examples of attainable housing being constructed in the city, ranging from infill development to new single and multifamily options in West Fayetteville.
 The city tonight will begin consideration of formalizing a commitment to providing funds to offset infrastructure costs for Willow Bend, an affordable single-family housing project conceptualized years ago in the Walker Park neighborhood. Other tools we have at our disposal include waiving impact fees for non-profit single- and multifamily affordable housing, providing zoning districts that allow for a variety and mixture of housing types and sizes dispersed throughout the city,
 We are able to waive fees and provide grant funds for rehabilitation of existing historic homes or those who qualify for economic assistance. And we also ensure that when homes are built, they're the most energy efficient possible, reducing the monthly utility bills and thereby reducing the overall cost of living for our residents.
 There's been a lot accomplished in the last five years, both from a physical infrastructure side and a development policy and procedure side. Five years ago we didn't have an administrative development review process allowing staff to review straightforward small projects less than an acre and give them the green light. Five years ago we were in the beginning stages of using form-based codes that allow the same type of process to be used citywide, regardless of the size of the project.
 Five years ago, the level of infill and revitalization of projects was only beginning, and now it's hard to go a block or two in parts of Walker Park or downtown without finding some sort of remodeling project, adaptive reuse, or a new construction. Five years ago, we were only dreaming that today we would have over 40 miles of multi-use trails, a 36-mile greenway trail from South Fable to Bella Vista, and a trail connection being constructed next year to the regional park.
 We are using innovative paving solutions to stretch our dollars and investing in infrastructure improvements that benefit all our citizens. From the Arts Council, to the Historic District Commission, to the Parks Board, our citizens are active and engaged in making a better place. From large to small, we've committed ourselves to our goals and pride ourselves in being an actively engaged community, which is attracting investment opportunities. We are becoming nationally known for our success and for our high quality of life.
 and are becoming that benchmark city to which others want to compare themselves. Even regionally, cities are taking steps in line with Fayetteville's codes adopted years ago as they attempt to balance development pressure and maintaining their own sense of place. The adoption of the Fayetteville First Economic Development Strategic Plan is the first next step in our economic development future. It's our business plan for investment and strategy for success. Business opportunities abound in Fayetteville. If you haven't noticed, we are a bustling city.
 your development services staff is very proud of what we help you all accomplish we hope you are too to mr latour's point last week we can improve and we are taking steps to do that every day please always let us know your observations your and your experiences because we can't always fix what we don't know through the leadership of the mayor the support of you all the city council city attorney and city clerk and the staff we've accomplished a whole lot under city plan 2030 and we'll continue to strive to be a better city over the next five years
 i'm hopeful today's presentation has given a baseline on the progress of implementation of our city plan and hope to have that conversation with you again next year some of the challenges we continue to face and work on but also providing a factual picture with data of the majority of the development that's being approved in fable despite the perception that's out there every community has its challenges and we strive to constantly work on removing the hurdles that can be removed thanks for your time
 Thank you, Jeremy, very much for your work on that and staff. Okay. All right, the next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the September 20, 2016 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to authorize the purchase of a Kubota 60-inch pro deck mower with canopy. Any amount of $13,175 from the Springdale Tractor.
 Company of Springdale Arkansas for use by the Transportation Services Department and to approve a budget adjustment number three a resolution to award bid number 16 dash 54 that authorized the purchase of a Ford 550 crew cab for before with David stump body from Lewis Ford sales incorporated a federal Arkansas in the amount of fifty four thousand six hundred and seventy dollars and eighty eight cents for use by transportation department a
 Number four, resolution to award bid number 16-54 and to authorize the purchase of a Ford F-350 crew cab 4x4 with Davis dump body from Lewis Ford Sales Incorporated of Feb. Arkansas in the amount of $44,947.88 for use by the Parks and Recreation Department.
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 16-54 and authorize the purchase of a Ford F-550 standard cab with Davis dump body from Lewis Ford Sales Incorporated, Federal Arkansas. Any amount of $48,397.88 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 16-56 and authorize the purchase of a
 Ford 554-4 with reading utility body from Lewis Ford Sales Incorporated of Federal Arkansas in the amount of $48,005 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 16-57 to authorize the purchase of a Ford 554.
 F550 diesel 4x4 with reading utility body from Lewis Ford Sales, Inc., of Thibault, Arkansas, in the amount of $55,243 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number 8, a resolution to award bid number 16-60 and to authorize the purchase of a prefabricated bridge in the amount of $31,500 from Arc Thurston, Inc., of Waterford, Michigan, for installation on the Cato Springs Trail.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve amendment number one, the contract with Garver LLC and the amount of $32,200 to add construction phase services related to the installation of a tunnel and bridges on a portion of the Cato Springs Trail within the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department right-of-way. And number 10, a resolution to approve the restated articles from the Corporation of Walton Arts Center Council, Incorporated.
 Sarah? I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Adela? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Red? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Now, I'm a little remiss here. I probably should have asked if you all had any statements or questions for Jeremy Pate for that. I apologize for that.
 Y'all have anything? Okay. All right. Under unfinished business, number one.
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 16-5442 for approximately 99.10 acres located at 2514 West Lorry Road from R.A. Residential Agricultural, RSF 1 Residential Single Family, one unit per acre, and RSF 4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre, to N.C. Neighborhood Conservation, R.A. Residential Agricultural, and N.S. Neighborhood Services subject to the attached bill of assurance. Leave this on the...
 This is the third reading. I can read the body if you want me to. It will be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo.
 from residential agricultural, residential single family one unit per acre, and residential single family four units per acre to neighborhood conservation, residential agricultural, and neighborhood services subject to the attached bill of assurance. Section 2 is that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. CHAIRMAN BRYANT.
 just to remind the council this item has been before you a few times and it was revived in the last couple of weeks overall this is a 99 acre rezoning request there are three tracks that are being requested to be rezoned one's attract one is 11.6 acres it requests us to rezone that to ra residential agricultural that's essentially the creek area that traverses east west through the property
 Track 2 is requested to be rezoned to neighborhood conservation. It's about 72.7 acres, and that's the majority of the property directly south of the creek. And then Track 3 is a 14.8-acre tract that's requested to be rezoned to neighborhood services.
 I responded to a couple questions this week about this exhibits and the maps that are in the packet. We all oftentimes include several different maps showing existing zoning, proposed zoning, future landings plan. The rezoning exhibit A that's part of the ordinance that's attached is the rezoning exhibit that would go with the ordinance itself.
 You'll notice that north of the creek states it's not a part of the rezoning. At Planning Commission there was an error on the part of the engineer who submitted the application. It was shown as part of the rezoning, but that's been since corrected, so that is not under consideration. As Mr. Williams mentioned, there's also a bill of assurance that's now been offered to the council that limits the number of single family structures for the property. Okay. Is the applicant here? Yes, would you like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council Members. Can I address Kit Williams for a second? Sure. I'll be happy to talk with you. Before we discussed the validity of my bill of assurance, do I need to get into that, or are we good? Well, I think it's not the validity, but it's to make sure we really understand exactly what you're proposing. Okay. Well, in the bill of assurance, I put that a maximum of 400 single-family houses would be built. That's...
 I don't know how else to say it. It's a maximum of 400 single-family houses, and that's all. Okay, and I thought that was your intent, and I just wanted to make sure that included both those zones. So 400 single families in both the neighborhood conservation and neighborhood services would be all that would be built there. Correct.
 And that's so good. I'm glad you made sure that it was crystal clear. I appreciate that. And the only other thing I would like to ask you, as I understand that this land is actually owned
 owned by an LLC, and are you and your wife the only owners of the LLC? Yes, my wife and I are 50-50 owners in Lenron Corporation. I'm the president of Lenron Corporation, so therefore I feel I'm authorized to speak for the corporation. And you're signing the bill of assurance for the corporation, too, as well as yourself? Yes. All right, I don't have any other questions. Okay. I don't really have anything else to add. I just wanted to make sure that we were clear on that and it was valid. If you all have any questions, I'll be sitting back here, so...
 Would you like to speak about the rezoning or anything? Does the council have any questions for the applicant? Is that good? All right. Okay. John, I believe you have something you want to add. Well, I would encourage us to consider this strongly. Mr. Cavins has been before us now for some time.
 And while I'm concerned with what the neighbors think about rezoning, I think he's given us what we need to proceed with this. We're not building apartments. We're building single-family houses. And I don't think we can afford to make it a park. It's probably a $3 million piece of land. I think it would be a bad precedent for us to set as a city to say, well, if the neighbors don't like a particular development, we'll buy the land and make it a park. We would be very land poor and very development poor.
 So I think it's time for all of us to come to terms with this land will be developed, and we can't expect a private owner to sit there and just sit on his investment and not get some rate of return on it. I don't think he would ask any of us to do that. I don't think we should ask him to do that. Okay. Anything else from the council? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. We're going to bring it back to the council. Now...
 I had a question for Jeremy, if I could. Hmm? Jeremy, I've received a lot of input from the surrounding areas about the environmental impact on that piece of property and the corresponding flooding that happens in the neighborhoods that surround it. Can you talk a little bit about that process and how that's addressed?
 Sure, so this is a recognized stream on the property that the request for RA, Resident Agriculture, was being made. The floodplain extends beyond that area, but as you all know, FEMA has floodway regulations and floodplain regulations with which the city must comply.
 Council has adopted a streamside protection ordinance. And so 50 feet at the top bank of each side of the stream, there's two protection zones, essentially, that does limit some development within those protection zones.
 So that's relative to that, that's the city regulations. In terms of wetlands, really the Corps of Engineers is the authority on wetlands. They supersede our authority in that particular case. Through the development process though, and the study process,
 because this site is clearly clearly floods we all have knowledge of that that would be part of our review process it's my understanding there's actually been already some studies done and those would be submitted to the Corps of Engineers and whatever decision that they make we would the city then would would have to abide by as well
 To answer your question, Alan, you have something else. Yeah, sure. So would it be appropriate for the council, I know we looked at when we had the falling waters rezoning before us, there was a lot of discussion about the flooding in the area, and the Environmental Action Committee actually took a look at that ordinance. Would this be something that the council would feel that they should also look at? I don't know. I guess the council will give you some feedback here.
 What say you all? Thank you, John. Mark, I believe you have. Yes. First of all, I want to commend the developer for giving us a bill of assurance and for working over all these months to define a good compromise as we move forward.
 And looking at the topography of the property and knowing that we have steps in place that can mitigate any damage to the wetlands in this area, I feel like that at this point, I would heartily endorse this specific program or this specific development as it is presented to us.
 Because if you look at it closely and you know what we have as far as future planning This is probably an ideal compromise. So I certainly wanted to mention that as we moved forward. Okay Anyone else? Well, we're on the third and final reading. So I guess I will round it up here What final comments do we have in the council anything? Okay Senator, would you please call the roll? No
 Yes. March? Yes. Hinton? Yes. Kennedy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmacher? Yes. Latour? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. All right. Under new business, everyone, a resolution to award bid number 16-53 and to authorize a contract with Boulder Construction Incorporated in the amount of $3,753,369.40.
 for construction of portions of the Cato Springs Trail from Town Branch Trail to Kessler Mountain Regional Park to approve change order number one to reflect value engineering items and reduce the contract amount by $880,253.40 and to approve the project contingency in the amount of $287,311.16, Matt.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. Matt Mihaljevic, Trails Coordinator. This is the Cato Springs Trail, which is about three miles long. It's going to connect up with the Town Branch to Kessler Mountain and the new regional park. In 2014, we were awarded a Walton Family Foundation grant for $150,000 to begin design work. We hired Garver to do that design work, and the design is complete, and we bid $1,000
 The project September 1st was bid openings boulder construction was the low bidder It came in a little higher than we had expected so we did some value engineering to actually pull portions of the Project that we're going to be built by the contractor to to have them built with our in-house construction crew for increased efficient efficiency It pretty much makes the contract portion of the section that's it within the highway right-of-way of a HED highway
 Highway right-of-way which includes I-49 and the Fulbright Expressway a little bit more involved Project within that right-of-way a lot going on there So we have now you engineered the project. We also removed the lighting Which we will plan on doing in-house as well for increased efficiency Did want to mention that the construction also got a grant from the Walton Family Foundation of two million dollars so we'll be utilizing that funding to complete the approximately three mile trail and
 continuing the Razorback Greenway down to the regional park. Great partnership. Good work, man. What questions do we have in the council? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? We're going to bring it back to the council. Now. I make a motion to pass the resolution. We have a second. Sarah. Second. I make a motion and second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Timmons. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Timmons. Yes. Shotmire. Yes. Yes. All right, number two. An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-5543 for approximately 21.40 acres located at 3434 North Crossover Road from R.A. Residential Agricultural.
 to RT12, Residential 2 and 3 Family, P1 Institutional, and CES Community Services. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from residential agricultural to residential two- and three-family institutional and community services.
 Section 2 is that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 okay jeremy this is a property on the east side of crossover road it's north of old wire road and directly across from birdie drive and park court it's 21 almost 21 and a half acres of mixed pasture and forest land there's a master street plan collector street planned for this property as you'll remember the median break here along crossover road was planned for that connection in the future
 The request is to rezone the property from RSF4 and residential agricultural to a combination of three different zoning districts. 2.6 acres along the frontage of Crossover Road near the intersection as proposed for community services. 8.2 acres is proposed for institutional use. And a little over 10.5 acres is proposed for residential two and three family areas.
 with regard to land use compatibility staff feels that this proposed zoning is compatible with surrounding properties there are some properties that are not developed in the area particularly to the east of here but to the west are some rmf 24 to the north is rt12 due west is also rsf4 and multiple multiple types of uses here the applicant stated that the rezoning is needed so the property can be developed with an assisted living and memory care facility which p1 institutional would allow for
 City Plan 2030 Future Land Use Plan designates this area as a residential neighborhood area and that designation supports a variety of housing types including two-family and multi-family development as well as low intensity non-residential uses where it's appropriate. We feel an intersection of a four and five lane major state highway with a future collector street does warrant a note of development so staff is supportive of the request.
 The Master Street plan, as I mentioned, shows Bridgewater Lane would extend from west, sorry, east from Crossover Road all the way over to Old Wire Road and Bridgewater Lane in that area.
 The Planning Commission recommended in favor of this request is a vote of 7 to 1. I did want to make the council aware that we've spoken to several citizens, particularly in the neighborhood across Crossover Road in Birdie Drive, Parkport, neighborhood area, that has expressed some reservations about the rezoning, particularly the change of land use in this area. You all may know, and particularly Alderman Tenant and Schottmeyer, there's a lot of pressure currently on the east side of Crossover Road. We've been talking about a lot of development proposals over the past year
 three to six months, varying from commercial to residential. Very few single family residential adjacent to Crossover Road. And so just wanna make sure you're aware of that as well. There was also a question about notification and what's required for notification because some of the neighbors within that neighborhood west of Crossover Road were not notified.
 the city's notification requirements adopted by the council and our ordinances only require adjacent properties to be notified so those properties across the street does count so those properties directly adjacent to the street and aligned essentially with the property boundary were
 Two lots in, three lots in were notified for the development other than the red sign that went up. So I just want to make sure that I was answering all those questions. I got a few calls on this, too, about the notification process. I'm sure you all did, too. Yes, sir.
 I have a question whenever you're a couple of questions. Jeremy, one is about the notification process. I did hear from a lot of people on this. And so you're saying that the people that live across the street on birdie or par, they
 the requirement is only to notify those just within a certain distance of crossover is that how that worked or how do you know how far down into the neighborhood to go to do any sort of notification it's essentially only those properties adjacent so we consider across the street
 We ignore the street essentially and consider those adjacent. We don't require another lot in, for instance, so the second lot in does not get a letter mailed to their house. There's still the sign, of course, and we notify it through our public agendas, things of that nature, but they're not mailed a letter indicating what might be happening on the property.
 i don't know if there's even a way to change that i don't want to put any extra burden on city staff i just think a lot of these people on birdie and par are going to be affected by this because that's the only way out is to that area and so um i'm not i'm not saying there's a solution to that problem it just it i worry a little bit that we're not notifying enough people in this case and and i would like to to hold it and not vote on tonight regardless but also another question about traffic
 Was there any study done or anything looked at as far as the traffic coming out of any sort of
 If there's a development here, if that road is extended all the way over to Bridgewater, you're going to have a connector street there connecting. I thought it would connect at par. This shows it connects at Birdie, but maybe I'm just wrong on that. Is there any concern about that level of traffic, the cars coming in and out with no light, no  there's not going to be a turn lane that I can see. There's a  I mean, is that a concern of the city or anything that that would add
 There's not been a traffic study done with the rezoning. We don't really know what's going to actually develop there at this time. The uses that have been discussed and the zoning that's allowed with the acreage doesn't
 throw up a red flag for us simply because it's not a super high intensity use that that's potentially going to happen there this is not there are two two and a half acres of commercial type zoning um you know a typical acre acre and a half lot you might get two two convenience or walgreens type stores in that location if if they choose to locate there but
 uh that those do not generate the type of traffic um that we would we would be concerned about particularly since we just widened this this major arterial um right certainly cross traffic we'll have to evaluate with at the time of development and you know the need for a future signal will also have to be evaluated with the development i would
 i would want us to look at this very carefully because if if someday that road does connect to bridgewater uh and um over by overton park and and there's a lot of people that live over in that area and now that oakland zion is being there's more and more housing going on there this will be a major connector to crossover for people that want to avoid 45 and 265 that traffic can be pretty rough down there so i feel like in the future there's going to be a lot of cars on that interchange
 So I do think that needs to be considered as well. For this particular proposal, I think leaving it here and giving more and more people a chance to speak on it is very, very important. So I would appreciate the council considering that because I don't believe enough people were notified, not that anybody did anything wrong. I just think that the way the process works is that
 There wasn't a lot. So I would appreciate that. Thank you all very much. Sure. That's fine. What else have we got from the council? What questions? I will take some public comment on this. It will probably be left here for two weeks. Anybody like to say anything? The applicant usually goes first.
 Hi, good evening. Elizabeth Link, representing Foster Development. A couple of things. First off, when we met with staff and talked about notification, we took the town's requirement and added a lot of people to it. We did many, many more people than what your ordinance requires. So I hope that I don't get penalized for the process that you guys have on the books today. But aside from that, traffic-wise,
 We're talking about 100 rooms, assisted living and memory care. Our traffic studies that we've done for a very similar project in Memphis shows that we have under 30 cars during peak time in the morning and under 20 during peak time in the evening. It's a very, very low use of roads and infrastructure. We are also proposing up to 32 units of...
 apartments for 55 and older. And we're talking about building a very much walkable neighborhood. The idea being that the 55-year-olds can walk to the little bit of service, the community service that we're proposing. They can walk
 to the amenities that are within the assisted living. Very much a walkable community, very green in our design. We have been working with the University of Arkansas' Community Design Center to help us with our master plan. As far as the traffic and the connection, you know, future, our traffic's going to be minuscule, but if other projects down the road come onto that road, I'm assuming that more,
 improvements to an interchange will be required at that point in time. We will be doing a traffic study with our project as required by staff. But anyway, I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. And I don't really have any other questions, but I want you to know, in no way did I mean that your project
 in my mind will be penalized for this i was really my comments were mainly on the process itself regardless of what development or rezoning that we would have i just think
 there's a lot of people that will be affected by this and many other things, and so I'd like for us to maybe examine that. So in absolutely no way was it... And I am hoping, you know, the state of Arkansas believes that this particular area, Washington County, is very low on assisted living and memory care beds. It's a need that you all have,
 And we're hoping to fill of the 250 beds. We're hoping to fill a hundred You're still going to be short and I'm not talking about 20 years from now. I'm talking about now you're showing that demand So we're hoping that we can at least help on that side of town to meet that need Anybody else do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I
 I guess we'll hold it here. Is that, everybody okay with that? Alderman Tennant, I did want to clarify, just looking at the aerial photograph, there is a turn lane to a future street off of Park Court to the east. So it was constructed with the highway department's improvements. Okay. Thank you very much, Chair. All right. Everybody good? Yes. All right. Let's go on to the next one. All right. Number three.
 An order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5548 for approximately 0.63 acres located at 1211 West James Street from R.O. Residential Office to C.S. Community Services subject to the attached bill of assurance kit.
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAVORL ARKANSAS SECTION 1 THAT THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAVORL ARKANSAS HEREBY CHANGES THE ZONE CLASSIFICATION OF THE PROPERTY SHOWN ON THE MAP, EXHIBIT A, AND THE LEGAL DESCRIPTION, EXHIBIT B, BOTH ATTACHED TO THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT'S AGENDA MEMO FROM RESIDENTIAL OFFICE TO COMMUNITY SERVICES SUBJECT TO THE ATTACHED BILL OF ASSURANCE.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arc are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Here.
 this is a remnant tract of land located at 121 west james street it's northwest of the harps grocery store at the intersection of wheddington and north i'm sorry wheddington garland and also east of garden park apartments about 0.63 acres it's currently zoned ro residential office the request is to rezone the property to community services subject to a bill of assurance it's been used since 1970 as an office on this particular site so it hasn't been used as a
 a residence for quite some time. However, there is a proposal on the rest of the property there you see in the map, zoned community services for a multifamily housing project here. This particular site is part of that development site and the request therefore is to combine that with the community services that's already zoned there.
 we've received no public comment here the bill of assurance attached to the memo would limit the height of the multifamily buildings facing existing single-family homes across James Street the reason for that is that community services does allow for a much taller building in this particular case because there are existing single-family homes it was desired to limit that impact somewhat I will make note that
 It's only while existing single-family homes are present. So if those homes are no longer there when the project develops or in the future, then that limit will no longer be in place at three stories maximum. Staff's recommending in favor of this request, the Planning Commission did as well, they voted 8-0. Okay. Questions do we have from Jeremy from the council? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. And so...
 Okay. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. I request to make a motion to suspend the rules to go to the second reading. Allen? I'll second that. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes, right. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes Yes, and ordinance reason that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-55 48 for approximately 0.63 acres Located at 1211 West James Street from residential office to community services subject to the attached bill of assurance. I
 thank you we go to the third and final reading adela we have a motion to second we have a motion to second go to the third and final reading sonja would you please call the row yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5548 for approximately .63 acres located at 1211 West James Street from residential office to community services subject to the attached bill of assurance. Is there any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance for a zone that property describes as zone petition RZN 16-5550 for approximately 73.37 acres located east and west of Ruppel Road and south of Mount Comfort Road from RSF1, residential single family, one unit per acre, RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, and RA, residential agricultural to CS, community services, and RA, residential agricultural kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from residential single-family one unit per acre, residential single-family four units per acre, and residential agricultural to community services and residential agricultural. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map.
 of the city of favor reflect the zoning change provided in section one Jeremy this is a proposed rezoning request for approximately 70 acres on the east and west side of Ruppel Road extending west of Salem Road to the west side of Ripple south of the intersection of Mount Comfort Road the property is currently zoned three zoning districts RSF4 RSF1 and residential agricultural and primarily agricultural use with two single-family homes and assorted accessory buildings on the property
 The request is to rezone the property to two zones, community services, which is one of our form-based zones, would encompass about a little under 43 acres, and then also residential agricultural, which would encompass about 27.5 acres. The applicants indicated the rezoning is needed for the property to be developed in the future.
 Staff finds this proposed zoning is compatible with surrounding land uses in the area. It does contain a mixture of a church and cemetery, a more light industrial type development to the west, a medium and high density residential with the links adjacent to the south, and then also undeveloped land to the west.
 the proposed community service zone in particular would allow for a significant shift in development patterns in the area and certainly want to acknowledge that community services would permit higher density residential and also non-residential development in a traditional town form pattern this pattern is different but we feel it can be compatible with and would help support the surrounding uses which are primarily single family within this area as you all have we've discussed before this area has very few services
 You have to drive essentially to the interstate in that area in order to have any services at all. We also feel the proposed zoning is consistent with city plan neighborhood designation, which is the city neighborhood area along the Hamstring Creek is also a natural area, which is where the proposed zoning is residential agricultural. It also encompasses a bit of civic and private open space, essentially associated with the golf course and residential development to the south.
 The goals of city plan 2030 include obviously making traditional town form the standards I spoke about tonight. We feel that community service zone in particular encourages patterns of development that could realize that goal, including an expectation that non-residential buildings would be located at this node.
 This area of the city has a large number of residents with lax non-residential goods and services requiring those residents to drive long distances to meet their daily needs. We feel that community services at this future busy intersection, which will begin construction in the next year, could help alleviate the lack of services in the area. The proposal also to rezone the Hamestream Creek riparian corridor to residential agricultural as it extends east-west across the site ensures that the sensitive environmental areas will either be conserved or developed at a lower density.
 the planning commission agreed with staff's recommendation and voted seven to one in favor there were about four members of the public that spoke in opposition to their quest primarily citing concerns with increased traffic that would inevitably would result from the rezoning from the current land use of pasture land to any type of development on the property
 I also want to call notice, call your attention to, we replaced the exhibits in the ordinance, exhibit A and exhibit B. We did, as I mentioned at agenda session, had the applicant remove the right-of-way that the city purchased for the Mount Comfort extension and part of the RuPaul Road, so
 revised exhibit a exhibit B that encompasses about 70 acres of property and so you'll see East of the future extension of Ruppel Road There's a little under 27 acres of community services West is about four acres community services And then our a to the south of that on the west side of the current Ruppel Road There's about two point eight acres of residential agricultural proposed and also eleven and a half acres of community services proposed staffs recommending approval
 Okay. What questions do we have, Jeremy, on this? Alan. I do have a comment before we go further. Since we had submitted this ordinance with 73 acres, and now SAP has recommended we remove the right-of-way, which makes it down to about 70 acres. Is that right, Jeremy? Don't we need to amend the ordinance, Jeremy?
 to reflect the new exhibits and what uh and to remove the right-of-way uh some of which we already own from the uh rezoning and just not not rezone the right-of-way that we own this would just be reflective of the right-of-way we've already acquired through the mount comfort road widening project okay so you're asking for an amendment well that was recommended by the planning department okay
 Is the applicant here? What what do you think about Tom? Good evening. Mr. Mayor Tom Terminola 24 East Meadow. I'm here representing Jim and Judy hazing on their farm It's my understanding kit that we were removing just the right away that the city's already acquired That's my understanding. What about it Mount Comfort? Correct my understanding what the planning department is recommending. Yes, sir. Okay, so
 we're good with it and i'm here to answer any questions if anybody has any thank you let me get through this amendment and then we'll probably have you back alan i'm sorry you had the floor or i was just going to make a general comment i've started getting a lot of public input some on both sides i just appreciate the council holding it on this reading tonight so that was what i was going to ask for so you're getting several
 I've been getting quite a few pieces of public comment just over the last few days. Okay, well let me get us back to the amendment.
 And, Kip, would you read that amendment, please? Kip Thorne Well, basically the only amendment would be to the title. Instead of saying approximately 73.37 acres, it would say approximately 70 acres, and then with the acknowledgment that the map, Exhibit A, and legal description, Exhibit B, have been slightly changed by the Planning Department.
 I'll make it a motion to amend as stated. Okay. Sarah? Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to amend. Is there any discussion on the amendment? Is there any public comment on the amendment? Okay. We have a motion and a second. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Cranning. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. All right.
 Tom, do you have anything else you'd like to add on this? No. OK. OK. So Alan, you want to hold it right here for two weeks? Everybody OK? All right. Let's hold on to it for two weeks. Oh, is there any public comment on this? Yes, sure.
 I think you already received a letter from me about traffic, so I'm not going to speak to that tonight. But my name is Marilyn Braswell, and I live at 2254 North Hidden Creek Lane. I'm not very far from the current dangerous intersection. I'm opposed to rezoning Mount Comfort Road to community services. We've been told that Mount Comfort will not be another Weddington.
 Yet, how can we prevent that from occurring when the zoning will allow the same businesses that are currently on Weddington to be built on Mount Comfort Road? This zoning will set a precedent for the other land along Mount Comfort Road. Eventually, Mount Comfort Road will become all commercial with a large intersection at Rupo and Mount Comfort. And at that point, Mount Comfort will have become a Weddington.
 Also, if this is approved, we will have a vote. Will we have a vote as to what businesses are allowed there? No, and I don't think even you know that right now or anything like that. So you will be entrusted to decide which businesses are compatible and meet the guidelines of the new zoning. It is also my understanding that the council can, at their discretion, at certain applications, grant variances to businesses to allow different things.
 My question here is how can we keep Mount Comfort safe? The large intersection that's planned for Mount Comfort and Rupel is a half a mile from Holt Middle School, which already has traffic issues. Many kids walk and ride bicycles to middle school each day. And my question is can we keep them safe? And at the Planning Commission, a statement was made that Mount Comfort Road residents were themselves generating all the traffic.
 I would like to see a traffic report or data to back that up because what I observe in the morning and coming home at night is there's a lot of traffic coming from Weddington to Mount Comfort and on the way home, traffic is backed up way far because people are going up Weddington instead of going down Mount Comfort. This zoning is supposed to encourage a walkable development. I would like to see data that shows that this could be a walkable development.
 At the Transportation Committee meeting this past week, it was reported that the intersection at Mount Comfort and Rupel Roads would be a four or five lane joining into another four or five lane and would be a large major intersection. Is an intersection that large going to encourage walking or even be safe to cross? Residents are more likely to get hit when they try to cross an intersection like that to a walkable community.
 The businesses will also draw people from surrounding neighborhoods, so there will most likely be a net traffic gain. Approving this zoning because the council thinks people will walk and create less traffic, I think is wishful thinking. My next concern about commercial development is the safety and security of the neighborhood. The businesses will draw people from surrounding neighborhoods, bringing mischief and more crime, especially if they are open 24 hours a day.
 For example, in the last three months, the Fayetteville Police have received 226 legitimate calls on Weddington Drive from I-49 to Ruppel. This does not include any of the side streets. And 18 calls on Mount Comfort from R-49 to Ruppel. And you say, well, you can't compare Weddington to Mount Comfort because Weddington is businesses, Mount Comfort is not. That's exactly my point.
 Has the environmental impact been considered with this zoning? What will happen to the creek and all the trees that line its banks? Will it fall into the streamside protection zone, where any development will be required to present a plan to minimize the impact of construction on the creek? To sum it up, rezoning Mount Comfort Road to community services, I believe, is premature.
 The proper road infrastructure will not be in place until Rupa Road is redirected and widened. And according to the Transportation Committee meeting last week, that land has not all been acquired yet. In the meantime, I think to work on the intersection I-49 and Mount Comfort to provide city services that this neighborhood needs. And I respectfully request that this zoning application be denied at this time.
 It's going to be held for two weeks, and then we'll review it again. Anybody else like to make a public comment on it? Okay.
 I would just ask any concerns or comments from any citizens that live within this ward, as well as this lady's comments, their contact information be provided to myself at tterminella at AOL.com. I'd just like to know of anybody that has concerns and make sure that they're properly informed on the planned infrastructure for that area. So that's all I would ask. Okay. Thank you, Tom. Thank you. Okay. So we're going to hold it right here.
 everybody good all right number five an ordinary zone that property described in the zoning petition rzn 16-5560 for approximately 3.34 acres located at 103 north plainview avenue from ro residential office to rt12 residential two and three family yeah
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change as its own classification the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from residential office to RT-12, residential two and three family. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Chairman. Chairman.
 This is a request to rezone a property off of 103 North Plainview Avenue. This property is located south of the intersection of Longview and Plainview. That contains the Lewis Ford dealership. It's actually directly adjacent to the Malco Theater large parking lot, the old theater behind the MC Theater there.
 Razorback Theater I think it's called request is to rezone the property from residential office to RT 12 residential two and three family this proposed zoning we feel is compatible with the surrounding properties you'll note that there's residential office to the west RSF4 commercial thoroughfare commercial as well as RMF 24 all within the closest vicinity
 the city plan 2030 future land use map designates this site as a city neighborhood which supports a variety of housing types including one two and three family unit types that would be allowed if this property is rezoned staff's recommended approval and planning commission agreed as well with a vote of eight to zero what questions do we have with jeremy on this okay what public comment do we have on this okay we'll bring it back to the council sarah i'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second rating for a second yes alan
 second that motion we have a motion in a second to go the second reading yes yes
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 16-5560 for approximately three and a third acres located at 103 north plainview avenue from residential office to rt12 residential two and three family sir maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third reading alan i'll second that we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final reading please call the roll
 Yes. Greg? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Stoutmeyer? Yes. Lutcher? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 16-5560 for approximately three and a third acres located at 103 North Plainview Avenue from residential office to RT 12, residential two and three family. Any final comments from the council on this? Shall the motion pass? Shall the ordinance pass?
 Yes. Yes. Mark. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number six. An ordinance to amend ordinance number 5015, which enacted residential plan zoning district 07-2452, the links to allow a clubhouse and swimming pool to be constructed on a .4 acre parcel of an RPZD kit.
 Whereas on May 15th, 2007, the Fayetteville City Council passed Ordinance Number 5015, which created RPZD 07-2452, the links, and whereas the owner of the links now requests permission to add provisions into RPZD 07-2452 to authorize the construction and use of a
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arksaw Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arksaw hereby approves the owner's request to amend Residential Plan Zoning District 07-2452, the links, to authorize the construction and use of a clubhouse and swimming pool in the central green space square area of the development of approximately 0.4 acres to provide amenities and a gathering space for residents of the neighborhood.
 although the terms and conditions remain in full force and effect.
 sure it's relatively straightforward request a planned zoning district due south of the hazen property you just considered for rezoning this is part of the links development pzd is approved back in 2007. there's a green open green space that was planned for future development this request is simply to amend that and allow for that green space to be developed with amenities for the neighborhood to include a clubhouse and swimming pool staff is supportive we've received no public comment and planning commission recommended in favor eight to zero
 Okay, what questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Okay, do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Allen. Motion to move to the second reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance amend ordinance number 50-15 which enacted residential plan zoning district 07-24 52 the links to allow a clubhouse and swimming pool to be constructed on a point four acre parcel of the RPG sir if we suspend the rules and go to the third reading Della
 i second that motion we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading sundry would you please call the room
 Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Timmons? Yes. Petty? Yes. Sinnott? Yes. Schottmacher? Yes. And ordinance amend ordinance number 50-5015, which enacted residential plan zoning district 07-2452, the links to allow a clubhouse and swimming pool to be constructed on a 0.4 acre parcel of the RPCD. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. OK. Number seven, a resolution to approve a two-year contract with Startup Junkie Consulting LLC to provide economic development consulting services in the areas of entrepreneurship and innovation in the amount of $300,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Kit. Oop, not kit. You got me straight there, Mayor. Jeremy, you have this one.
 In May of this year, the council unanimously adopted Fable First, the city's newly updated economic development strategic plan. This plan engaged over 1,600 citizens and businesses to structure the economic future for the city. Fable First gives policy direction for the city to achieve its stated goals along with an implementation plan as a roadmap.
 Establishing the economic delivery service model was identified as one of the first steps and staff is following that adopted strategy of a three pronged approach. First to contract our business recruitment, retention and expansion services. Secondly to contract our entrepreneurship and innovation services and third to create an internal economic development program providing the city contact and lead efforts in coordinating all these efforts related to recruiting, retaining and supporting business industry and startup efforts in the city.
 uh in july the city issued an rfp and received proposals at the end of that month after interviewing the selected candidates the selection committee which included council member adela gray recommended entering to negotiations with startup junkie consulting for entrepreneurial innovation services a major component of fable's economic potential was identified with fable first strategic plan and it's one that's not seen a great deal of focused impact in the past by the city
 The Kauffman Foundation estimates that at least 85% of net new job creation comes from startup companies. With the university's innovation and talent supply right here in the city, a vibrant entrepreneurial culture, and access to the right resources, Fayetteville's current entrepreneurial and innovation sector ecosystem has the potential to become a leading destination for world-class, scalable ventures and vibrant, sustainable businesses.
 With this in mind, the City desires to contract the Startup Junkie to become the Startup City of the South with outcomes to include high wage job creation, graduate retention in the region, and enhanced quality of life. Startup Junkie Consulting is a leader in the development of viable, lasting, and inclusive startup and venture ecosystems. Their work since 2008 has resulted in the creation and acceleration of hundreds of new ventures, thousands of new jobs, and over $265 million in public and private investment.
 During the interview process, the selection committee found a very high energy, committed, and professional local team that will lead Fayetteville First's entrepreneurial target sector. Specific tasks outlined in the contract, which is attached to your packet, include supporting collaborative, entrepreneurial, and innovative environment, increasing high-tech job growth through university and Arkansas research and technology partnerships,
 creating and maintaining innovative spaces and programs to support entrepreneurs providing an online directory of the startup community to support and encourage mentoring opportunities technology support networks entrepreneurial initiatives and events and education exploring affordable housing options for entrepreneurs inventory and expand educational opportunities support the growing artisan food and craft beverage industry and support supporting talent attraction retention and development
 So to support the growth of small businesses here in Fayetteville. This contract is for a two year period with an amount of $150,000 per year.
 I would like to call your attention to the second page of the contract. Inadvertently, as part of our template contracts, there's a section that talks about coordinating with the city. There's a reference to the Chamber of Commerce, which is the next contract that we're considering, and just want to make sure that gets changed before it's approved and finally signed. Otherwise, staff is recommending approval of this contract. Thank you.
 Okay. Don? And just to be specific with the council, it's on page two of the contract under exhibit A where it says the City of Fayetteville should coordinate with the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, it should say for modifications to the schedule, it should say start-up junkie in this particular contract as well as any modifications shall be agreed upon by both parties, the city and it should say start-up junkie, not Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, both ultimately approved by the Fayetteville City Council.
 Do we need to amend the contract prior to this being authorized and signed? No, you don't have to. You should express your willingness that this will be changed and we will change it before the mayor signs it. All right. Sir? Sorry, John? Just a couple questions for Jeremy. Startup Junkie, where are they located?
 I'd like to, they're actually here, so they can probably speak. Well, take a bow. Yeah, sure. Mr. Mayor, members of city council, glad to be here. Yeah, we are in fact located right here. In fact, we're on the second floor of the Pryor Center and have been for about the past three years. What is your name? My name is Jeff Amrine, and I'm the founding principal of Startup Junkie Consulting.
 And I'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have about what we do. What's your educational background, Jeff? United States Naval Academy graduate, undergrad, background in physical science and engineering, master's degree in operations management from the U of A. And I'm an adjunct professor of entrepreneurship at the U of A. Good. Nice to meet you. Good to meet you. And how long have you been in this business? Yes.
 I've been through the startup process myself eight times over the course of the last 26 years. I've specifically been in this business since 2008 as part of the Innovate Arkansas program, the NWA Venture Team program funded by the Walton Family Foundation in Winrock, and three different contracts with the Small Business Administration for the Regional Innovation Cluster and for the Scale-Up program. So eight years specifically doing this type of work.
 And have you contracted with any other municipal governments to provide this sort of service? We have been under contract with regional economic development groups like the Northwest Arkansas Council. Yet to be announced, pending legislative review, we'll be under contract with the University of Central Arkansas to do some similar things around Conway and Central Arkansas.
 We've got agreements with municipalities in Canada and Nova Scotia. So we're very familiar with having stakeholders in all aspects of state, federal, and city and county government. Thank you, Jeff. Yes, sir. I have one question, Mayor. You heard about the mix-up putting the chamber in the place where you should be in there. You have no complaint that we're going to fix that contract, right? No.
 Right. You know, interestingly, and I don't mind admitting this, we have reviewed this contract and this statement of work many different times. And as I was sitting here tonight sort of preparing my comments and thinking about what I would say, I noticed that and I couldn't believe that we had all missed it. And a member of our team is a former Air Force contracting officer, and so I'm going to take him to task over not having found that. But in any case, we're happy with it being changed. It shall be correct when you see it. Thank you.
 Okay. Any other questions? Okay. Anybody else? All right. Thanks, Chad. What public comment do we have on this? Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Lorraine O'Neill. I live at 3001 West Weddington in Fayetteville and in the Maple Manor Apartments. And I don't know that much about the consulting services of any kind whatsoever, but I've always viewed it with a great deal of skepticism.
 Consulting, I could consult you guys on how to fish. I could consult you guys on, or you could consult me on a variety of topics. But that doesn't mean that I'm an expert. And what value does it actually provide that you have consulted this person about some of their recommendations? If someone is going to start up a business, they have done their homework.
 and they have tried to find out if their business will be successful usually before they even venture into that. So I'm very dubious about spending this kind of money on consulting, and I see a lot of this kind of thing happening, and I don't really see that there's any benefit to it. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Peter? Mr. Mayor, Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. Thank you.
 Yeah, I have some problems with this, too, and it's because there seems to be a trend developing. I noticed that Resolution 169-15 last September, the City Council extended for six months an economic development services contract with the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. Now, in my years, I'm 65 years old, it seems odd to me.
 that the government is, and I know we have the faithful Chamber of Commerce coming up next. All right, so let me move on. I'll get another chance at that. Then in November, you signed a contract for $89,210 with Boyette Strategic Advisors, well, not to exceed that amount, to facilitate and prepare an update to the city's economic development plan, and that also required a budget adjustment.
 Now, today, we've got this contract for $300,000 for two years, and then another contract that I'll speak about in a few minutes, for $360,000 to help supposedly, I guess, sell the city of Fayetteville, which is part of northwest Arkansas that was just ranked as the third most desirable place to live. And I don't understand why the city needs to spend a million dollars
 on these kinds of services. Now, if you hire an engineer to design a bridge or a trail, when he's done or she's done, you'll see a bridge or a trail. But consulting services are much more ephemeral. This consulting company has a website,
 There's Mr. Ammarine, his wife, and his son are three of the six principals. Now apparently there's a seventh woman. They're all from Arkansas. They're not from Silicon Valley. They're not from Manchester, New Hampshire. They're not from Boulder. And frankly, their background is in retail, consumer, packaged goods, supply chain, food and data analytics.
 primarily, and they say that twice on their website, which is garden variety, Sam Walton kind of stuff. I mean, my whole neighborhood is filled with people who are dealing either with Tyson Foods or J.B. Hunt Trucking or Walmart. So what does this really add to the mix for the taxpayers of Fayetteville? And then you end up with these strange provisions in the contract. They actually...
 Let me see, these contracts are so similar. I did notice the problem in the way they were posted on the website. Let me just take a minute here and look at the contract. For example, startup junkie, they want to have, quote, outcomes to include high-wage job creation, blah, blah, blah, unquote.
 but they're also supposed to be, quote, exploring affordable housing options for entrepreneurs, unquote. So what is this? Is it low income or high income that they're dealing with?
 It says they have to maintain clear and open communication. I try to look for the performance standards that are set for them. It doesn't even set an hourly wage rate for any of their employees in terms of what they're going to be charging the taxpayers for what they supposedly do. And how do you measure it? Why don't they, like, work for a few years, and then if they can demonstrate that they were responsible for bringing in a business that contributed X amount to the tax base, then they would get some percentage
 of that for their efforts. But I don't see anything in this Exhibit A that is really measurable. I mean, I could beat this to death. I know that's not what you want. But if you look at their... I don't know even what you call these things, these standards of performance, they're just almost unmeasurable. And I don't know what we're getting there.
 I mean, really, the biggest attraction to come to Fayetteville would be low taxes, but that seems to be something that this city council just can't contemplate because the taxes keep going up. So I don't think  I have great confidence. I just heard the presentation from one of your city employees. I have backed up 
 one of your arborists in past city council meetings. You have some good people here, and I don't know why you have to have this vague open-ended contract to a group of Fayetteville people, not that there's anything wrong with them, I don't know Mr. Amarine or anyone in his family, but what are we getting for $300,000, $150,000 a year? Thank you, Peter. Who else would like to address this?
 Hi everyone, my name is Keaton Smith. I live in Ward 1. I'm a commercial lender at a bank here in town and partner closely with Startup Junkie on...
 I send lots of small business clients to them and they provide amazing service. They provide free, 100 percent free services to all the startups and entrepreneurs that they support. And I've just found them invaluable. Unfortunately, you know, lots of people.
 Business owners are not 100% prepared to own a small business when they get started. And so they do a great job of showing them the ropes. And I'd also just say that before the group was ever paid by any of the other organizations that they're currently under contract with, they basically did this on a volunteer basis for, I think, four or five years.
 So they've really been catalysts for the entrepreneurial community along with the Chamber of Commerce, and I'm excited for this contract. Thanks. Okay. All right. Anything else? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I've personally gone up there and I met with Startup Junkie for mentoring as I'm starting my own business here in Fayetteville, and I think that there's
 their planning services that they assisted me with in terms of getting me started on a business plan. It was really invaluable and I think that by contracting with the city, we'll be able to use this resource for a greater spectrum of our young entrepreneurial community. But I just want to go ahead and make a motion to approve the contract. Okay. John, I believe you have the floor. I don't know exactly.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jeff, with all due deference to your entrepreneurship and your organizations you have started, if as Alderwoman Marsh... Come on, please. If as Alderwoman Marsh maintains that your services are very valuable, it seems like people would be willing to pay for those services.
 I think my services are very valuable, and people pay for my services. As I explained to Alderman Tennant just before this meeting started, I tell my clients, if I don't save you more than I cost you, you should fire me. And that's the way business works.
 You see, so why don't you charge for your services? So it's an excellent question. And by the way, I come from the lens of having built businesses, not just in Arkansas, but those that were tied to Silicon Valley, spent 10 years in Maryland on the East Coast, variety of different technologies, software, telecommunications, international telecommunications, worked at three Fortune 500s in executive positions and spent seven years at the U of A running the technology commercialization function.
 Here's the key point. Startups have an extremely high failure rate. Startups are essential to economic development and small business. Startups cannot afford to pay McKinsey, KPMG, Ernst & Young, or other highly paid consultants at that critical point in their maturation when they're trying to get off the ground. These services are essential to make sure that they don't hit the same minefields that a lot of us hit through trial and error.
 the startup success rate, if you can increase the five-year survival rate, the job creation is significant. It's significant. So in the long run, absolutely, when companies get to be sustainable, they're $30, $40 million a year, they've got budgets, absolutely, they should pay for their consulting. When they're at that concept stage, when they're at those inflection points where they're not really sure what they need to do and they don't have access to strategic advice,
 failure rate increases. You don't get the economic benefit. We need these startups to succeed. We need to retain the talent that comes out of the university, that spins out of the large companies to build new great businesses here. By having the sorts of services we provide, we've got a proven track record of 22 different metrics that we measured for the Walton Family Foundation, Windrock International, three different SBA contracts.
 They show the number of new ventures created, the number of jobs created, the sales revenues increase. It's not sort of ephemeral, and it's not loose. They're very tightly measured metrics. These critical early stages are really crucial to make sure that we've got the startups that can employ the kind of high-wage rate people we want to keep in the area. Would you agree with me that my clients should fire me if I don't save them more in tax than I cost them? No.
 say one more time i'm sorry would you agree with me that my clients should fire me if i don't save them more in tax than i cost them absolutely there should be a return right there should be a return absolutely exactly so on that basis you would expect a startup in a very delicate stage of that business to hire a professional because if they pay a professional like me five hundred dollars i may make them a thousand
 So it would actually benefit them to do it that way. Have you ever made a payroll, Jeff? Eight different times in my career, absolutely. Okay. When you list Fortune 500 experience, that's impressive. Eight different startups, three Fortune 500s, seven years at the university. And I've had profit and loss experience every single situation I've ever been in. Good. I'm glad to hear that. I think you should charge for your service. Well, I appreciate that. Okay. Yeah.
 Thanks Jeff. You're done. Okay. Matthew. Thank you Mayor. I don't have a lot to add. I'd just like to point out, you know, just even in the first cohort of scale up, which wasn't all that long ago, you know, we saw such garden variety consumer goods businesses, some of them not even in Fayetteville, it was a regional thing, Bicrack Brewing, Kent Walker Arts and Cheese, Pink House Alchemy.
 and several local businesses. I mean, each one of these is somebody who employs at least a half a dozen people. You know, this isn't training the kinds of maybe conventional businesses that you might think don't need the kind of training. And also, I'd like to point out that anybody who thinks that this kind of organization isn't necessary and they cite advanced examples like Boulder or Silicon Valley really needs to do
 the history and look at the history because each one of those each one of those success stories started with an organization just like this helping out in every case so i'd like to second the motions on the floor to approve the contract okay del i believe you have the floor we have a motion in a second by the way sandra
 Sarah was first, and then I think that I'm going to. Adele. I would just like to say that the first time I met this group was when I was on the committee to select them, and I was very impressed.
 with their presentation. And I think anyone who's lived in Fayetteville and seen how many businesses we have that start up and don't make it, then I think we need to look at what we can do to help those businesses be successful. And I think that this group is going to do that for us and I would like to give them my support. Thank you.
 I would just like to say that I think it's good and healthy to question consultants. I don't think it's a bad thing, the questions that have been brought up, because one, this is a lot of money, but two, living in the corporate technology world that I live in, I have a lot of people that have failed at their job and they've become consultants. So I'm very, I always question it.
 me to be supportive of this even more because I have absolutely no doubt that this group provides a massive positive for our area. And the measurable dollar amount that comes from them really comes, I think, later in the job creation and the, as Matthew said,
 it breeds on itself when it's done right and these people definitely do it the right way. So I'm very much in support and I'm glad they're doing what they're doing for our area. Okay Matthew. Thank you Mayor for giving me a chance to speak. I think that there's an opportunity here that maybe hasn't come across very well and
 Now I don't think a lot of people realize really what has happened in Fayetteville in the last few years. In addition to Startup Junkie being here, there's also a venture fund in the middle of the square. And those two entities work together all the time. There are more than 10 companies a year coming out of the old post office right now. Startup companies, this is the kind of thing you would not expect to happen in a community with only 80,000 people.
 There are very few other case studies that can even match what's beginning to happen here. And it really goes beyond that too, I mean if you want to talk about the big gold standard
 The Brookings Institution has looked at a dozen different areas for really what makes an innovation district possible. And some of the most successful innovation districts start out just like the ones we have here in Fayetteville with somebody on the square doing what Starter Junkie and Hays Seed Ventures do, just a short distance away from a medical campus with a focus on research and commercializing new technologies. So you've got two Starter
 startup clusters in this community within about three miles, two miles within one another. We've only begun to talk about what it means to our city if they start to work together in a more cooperative and deliberate manner. And that is already happening. As you see people start to sit on one another's boards and talk about the strategic direction of the city together as a group. And this isn't even beginning to talk about the research and technology part, which is
 So we have a hat trick of startup cultures here, and in each case, okay, in each case, you know, there's private sector involvement, but there is public sector or NGO coordination in each case. It's absolutely essential. And so I would encourage not just the council but the public when you consider this.
 this isn't about a one-off contract and a set of deliverables that could be renewed for another six years this is about creating something that uh it is this is about standing up something that will work on its own something that is really going to define the economic opportunity of a big portion of this city over the next decade okay marty i'd just like to vote mayor okay okay all right
 All right, anything else? All right. Sandra, would you please call? Don. OK. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fong. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Schottmars. Yes. LeTour. No. OK, number eight. A resolution to approve a two-year contract with the Federal Chamber of Commerce to provide economic development consulting services in the areas of business recruitment,
 retention and expansion the amount of three hundred and sixty thousand dollars in the budget adjustment chairman this is the second contract being presented to the council for economic development services the reference earlier that contract was extended that contract expired in september and that was primarily for business recruitment retention and expansion services
 We recognize a critical component of Fayetteville's economic development and future that was confirmed in the Fayetteville First Plan that we must have a robust retention and expansion program, but more focused than what we have in the past, primarily on a few specific components.
 areas of legacy industry, regional headquarters and startups. In the retail sector, we need to identify those gaps that we know exist in Fayetteville. Those need to be inventoried, analyzed and a focused strategy developed to fill those gaps. That workforce training and education remains a high priority not only in Fayetteville but the communities surrounding us and in the region because we are not an island. We employ individuals from cities all around us and all throughout the region.
 that future development opportunities that we have in Fayetteville should create an environment that attracts not only the current workforce but the new millennial workforce and the business owner that is the millennial given the diversity of the workforce today. Given those tasks, the Chamber of Commerce we feel brings a wealth of experience and relationships in the city and region with Northwest Arkansas Council and Arkansas Economic Development Commission.
 As you all know, the Chamber has performed the City's economic development services since 2009. This new contract would provide for them to continue being our point of contact with the AEDC, maintaining a database of property data and building availability for targeted business sectors. I was speaking to Don earlier this week. About once or twice a week we get a request for building a property, information relative to retail development.
 who is coming to town, who should be coming to town. And so the chamber acts as our point of contact to research those particular questions.
 They provide a proven method of using survey instruments and interviews throughout the community for businesses to gauge the needs and also the hurdles for our legacy industries. Businesses that are headquartered here in terms of our corporate services and also coordinating with the startup and entrepreneurial companies that have growth, location, or other challenges through relationship with Startup Junkie.
 Also serving as a coordinated central point for workforce and training needs. You all may recognize that the Chamber puts on a great deal of educational services here in Fayetteville for a diverse group of individuals and businesses. We've asked the Chamber to focus their efforts more in this contract into identifying the
 We believe improve the outstanding lifestyle quality we have in Fayetteville and also fostering development opportunities consistent with your adopted goals and policies. This contract is also for a two-year period. The selection committee recommended entering into that contract with the Chamber of Commerce at a rate of $180,000 per year. Okay. A question we have for Jeremy. Joan, would you like to address the council?
 Good evening, I'm Chung Tin from the Fayetteville Chamber. Steve Clark says he regrets that he couldn't be here today because he's at home sick. So he's trying to get well. I'm here to
 So any questions that you may have we thank the mayor Jordan and the City Council for our first contract since 2009 Together we have achieved a lot We have created a lot of relationships and connections and we look forward to start working on this next contract concentrating on business retention and expansion and also on a
 helping and supporting the city of Fayetteville to continue to make it a sense of place because right now it is all about the destination. Okay, what questions do we have for John? Okay, alright, what public comment do we have? Mr. Mayor, I may have, Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I may have just heard an answer to a question. Has the city been paying the Chamber of Commerce since 2009? Yes. Is that what I understand?
 I mean, this even more so than the other contract strikes me as odd. When I was a very young lawyer, I was working for the Department of the Interior, and we were sued by the United States Chamber of Commerce and ended up in front of Judge Sirica, John Sirica, when they tried to enjoin the secretary from presenting legislation to the Congress. The Chamber of
 Usually isn't in bed with government I mean it's kind of odd and in fact the contract reflects that it says that in paragraph four It says that there's an obligation to quote maintain clear and open communication with the city on all economic development services and activities provided under the scope of this contract and clearly articulate when communicating on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce versus
 city-contracted initiatives to create clear accountability. I mean, it's just an inherent conflict, really, between the role that the Chamber of Commerce typically played, at least until recent years, and what it does now. And I know we all want to make a better city, but it just seems wrong for the government to be paying them. Business should be paying them, not the government. And so in Exhibit A, Item 6,
 It says that the Chamber of Commerce will be required to collaborate with the city for communication with the public. What's that all about? I mean, that sounds conspiratorial. They're supposed to talk to you before either of you...
 can decide what you in your own capacity and is that is their capacity as the chamber of commerce or their capacity as the chamber of commerce whose expenses are paid by the city whose judgment it might want to challenge from time to time so again i object to this i think city employees
 who answer to elected officials, should perform these functions, and you should not allow the city council or government, who's supposed to work for me, to become entangled with a chamber of commerce that may or may not represent business interests that I agree with,
 But I really object to this, and I don't think all this money should be spent. And again, it suffers from some of the same problems. There is a provision that they've got to submit hours, but it doesn't say what rates they're going to charge. I assume we can get it from the Chamber of Commerce under the Freedom of Information Act.
 It might be a little more problematic with startup junkies in case they make some kind of claim of business privilege. But I think it's the wrong thing to do. Thank you, Peter. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Alan, you had  I apologize. Peter, I had a question for you. Am I allowed to speak directly? You can answer his question, yeah.
 My question is, you don't want us to approve the contract. Would you prefer us to hire an in-house economic development team? Yes. I've been impressed by a lot of the city employees, the trail planners. I've talked to them. An arborist one time when Kane Motors, I think, wanted to cut down some trees, and the arborist didn't want them cut down. I mean, I think there's a lot of great people working in this city. I don't know why these...
 contractors have to be paid under circumstances where unlike engineers the expense can't really be monitored of course I'm still seething about the library thing but okay yes yes ma'am it's public comment still open okay thank you thank you mr. mayor Lorraine O'Neill one okay no my address well I
 very much opposed to this too. My concept of the Chamber of Commerce all my life has been that they worked for business. They had members that were businessmen in the community and they worked for those businesses to try to promote those businesses.
 And for the city to pay them consulting services is beyond my grasp of comprehension. I'm sorry, but this just doesn't connect with me. And again, with startup businesses, businesses can get all kinds of advice from consultants about what to start up and when to start up and how to start up and where to start up. But that doesn't mean they're going to survive. To provide them...
 advice on starting up and and the the contract with the with the chamber is that Contingent on them providing some proof that what they're actually doing is Succeeding I would I'd like to see some of those numbers too. Thank you mayor Sir second
 Martin? I'll second that. Okay. All right. We have a motion to second. What final comments do we have in the council? All right. Jeremy, would you give us a little history of how we got where we are? We started off with Federal Forward about, I don't know, 2009.
 Well, about 2013, the council and I was approached by several council members that we needed to revise our economic development plan. And we had open meetings. I conferred with many of you in the meetings. Anybody recall any of that at the time? And you wanted to hire a consultant to give us an economic development plan, which we went out and did, at direction of the council. Is everybody flowing with me on this? OK.
 Now, whether you voted for it or not, that's another issue. But we had direction of the council to hire Boyette, and they were chosen. They brought us in to plan it.
 now these are steps from that plan now the council has choice here you can do that plan not do that plan but we were not going to get into a situation where we had developed a plan and we wasn't going to we weren't going to bring that plan forward we were not going to let it sit on the shelf and gather dust when i was on the council many times we would have people come in and we would develop plans but we wouldn't develop any plans so it was 100 000 here and 50 000 there and
 When the council gives us direction to develop certain plans and bring us certain projects and, in this case, advice on our economic plan, we bring it forward. But I'm going to leave it up to you all to decide what you want to do with this. Okay? All right. Does anybody, staff, want to add anything to that? Yes, Mayor, I do. Thank you.
 The state of Arkansas, every city, particularly the top 20 cities, contract with their Chamber of Commerce to provide business retention and expansion services. In fact, many of the development councils, the Development Council in Northeast Arkansas for the Jonesboro-Blobville area, Central Arkansas and Conway and Little Rock, and even our own council in Northwest Arkansas, the Northwest Arkansas Council, contracts with all of the chambers in the region to provide also services
 interviews of companies on what is keeping them here, what their issues are, and that information is shared with the city as well to do the work that we do. This economic development strategic plan is extremely detailed into the areas, focus areas of each of these contracts and what services are to be provided.
 keeping inventories of available land and buildings for inquiries that we received. Responding for AEDC, one of the number one complaints when Mayor Jordan was elected, and we met with the state for the very first time, was that the city of Fayetteville did not have a single point of contact for economic development opportunities.
 Was it the University of Arkansas and the Arkansas Research and Technology Park? Was it Steve Rust and the group at PDC that he was from? Was it the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce and their director at the time? Was it the city of Fayetteville and Ray Boudreaux as an economic developer and airport manager? It was too many places to go, too slow to respond, not quick enough to meet with site selection consultants, and no brand that the city held at that time.
 and Mayor Jordan directed the staff through Fayetteville Forward for us to change that and the council adopted that. We had a single point of contract with our Fayetteville Chamber contract. We were the first city I might add. The other cities contract directly with them without going through a process but we did an RFP process. We took
 open bids. We had five responders, one as far away as Atlanta. We had the local chamber. We had other businesses. We shortlisted that, interviewed those candidates, selected them. We have a set of criteria that is in the report contract that you all have provided and approved
 every single time even when we make a change in those deliverables and the chamber has reported on that every quarter for the entire six-year period that we have been under contract with them boyette's plan as it related to startup junkie was that we identified five benchmark cities and we evaluated what do those cities spend in economic development
 Their budgets were between a half a million and 900,000. And the city of Fayetteville at the time spent 165,000 for economic development services. And you get what you pay for. They had entire teams, their ability to respond and get back. We have been phenomenal with the work that Chong and their team have done. And of all the cities in Arkansas, we have received more quick action closing fund dollars from the governor's office than any city in this state.
 because of our relationship with AEDC, because of our relationship at the governor's level in two different political parties. So the point I want to make is that we also have staff that have other jobs, and we have never had a 100% dedicated staff member for this because we wear many hats.
 And the expertise that we are getting in these two contracts is 100% dedicated, focused efforts. You know, I was  I think probably the thing I'm learning most from this discussion is how 
 much we need to spend time focused on promoting what is taking place in our economic development process with our current contractor and with our new contractor. On page 37 of our Economic Development Strategic Report
 It clearly points out that not counting the University of Arkansas and their patented startup businesses, we have companies such as Acumen Brands, DataRank, FayetteChill, Field Agent, Lauren James, Overdrive Brands, Riff Raff, Slim Chickens, QBox, Oh Baby Foods. We're not talking about a company with two people in the workplace and paying minimum wage.
 We're talking about significant development of jobs and high-paying wages, which is what you told the staff you wanted. And we're bringing you a plan that Boyette identified, and we are beginning to market and brand. Jeremy and I will be in Dallas tomorrow visiting with potential retailers because also in our report, back on page 29, I believe, it talks about developing our...
 our retail specialties. And in the plan it speaks that we're a niche market attractive to a university environment where we should attract companies such as Trader Joe's, Urban Outfitters, West Elm, et cetera. I could go on. There's an entire list in there of targeted items. We can do this two days at a conference, or we can contract people to do it 365 days of the year.
 and get the return that we're talking about doing. That is why the Chamber created one job, I mean one company, every workday in our last contract period. And there's not a lot of cities that can say that. So this information is all on the website. It's transparent. Go to the Economic Development Strategic Plan, you can read it. Go on the site to see what the measures have been under the contract terms of 2006. It is also out there.
 We are thrilled with both of our potential providers. And the third part of the plan that you paid for was to also have a dedicated economic development and vitality manager at the city to coordinate our contracts and our state and federal relationships.
 And that's something that Paul talked to you about when we talked about the budget time. So not to delay this discussion any further than it needs to be, but this is not new in Arkansas. Our contracts with providers to do economic services, Little Rock has it, North Little Rock has it, Springdale, Fayetteville, Rogers, Bentonville, Salome Springs.
 Every city is contracting with their chamber currently to do it. And the item that we wanted to highlight in the plan that you all supported, which is why this is somewhat of a shock to me, not a shock, your vote wasn't a shock,
 But that we wanted to be branding ourselves as a startup city of the south because as we compared ourselves to Asheville and Chapel Hill and Lawrence and Boulder and Fort Collins and those cities that we compete with when someone is deciding where to locate their $68,000 average pay business. Those are the communities that we are competing with and these are the services that they provide.
 And so for us to be competitive, we have to get in the game to do that. Alderman Tenet, I will never forget this, when we started this discussion on economic development said to us, I would love to do these things, but we have to do it within the budget in which we can afford. And we can't go from $165,000 a year to $1 million a year. This is this incremental change that we're talking about, but we are making a significant leap to invest in job growth and the kind of jobs we want and the services to build
 this environment even further and it's not new. We've been doing it and if you want to know what we've been doing you can read in the plan these successes and you are a big part of that. Some of you are meeting with site selection consultants with us. It's a team effort. We're just adding two more team members. Thank you.
 but you know council i'm going to tell you we don't have nothing around here anything i got you can have anything these folks folks working for us you need to see their deliverables that we lay out you can you can see those too peter i promise you anything you need to see we'll let you see they will too if they're under contract with us i believe mr mayor that
 You know, one of the reasons we moved here is because doctors here found my fianc's breast cancer and treated it well. I mean, we have excellent medical care, excellent dentist in Fayetteville. I was surprised. My family doesn't believe it, but it's true. It was brought here by wealth.
 that was created by Sam Walton, J.B. Hunt, and the Tysons, and I would like to know what village helped them build their businesses, because I don't think it took a village for those people to build their businesses. I still believe in economic drive of individuals and partnerships, maybe, groups that get together, and I am still...
 skeptical of the government becoming too much involved in it I don't really see a problem with an entrepreneur who's truly an entrepreneur having to contact multiple people I don't see why there has to be one point of contact and I don't see why that contact has to be paid by the government so I still have my questions it was a it's certainly a very fine argument I understand that and I love this city so I'll let it go at that
 Okay, is there anything else? Would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 All right. Does anybody want a break or anything before we launch into this now? All right. All right. Number nine, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to approve a contractual agreement attached to the engineering department's agenda memo in the form of a cost share agreement with partners for better housing incorporated in the amount of up to $1 million pursuant to resolution number 117-13. Thank you.
 whereas the fav i'm sorry sorry sorry whereas the fable city council passed resolution number 117-13 which was approved and signed by mayor jordan on may 21st of 2013 and whereas resolution number 117-13 expressed the city council's quote intent to invest up to one million dollars to cost share the construction of city infrastructure within the houses at willow bend development
 with the Nonprofit Development Corporation if proper safeguards, assurances, and guarantees are in place."
 Whereas partners for better housing incorporated has submitted its booklet the homes that will have banned a traditional neighborhood housing development to the City Council to to detail its plans for this development and whereas partners for better housing Inc has signed the contractual agreement which incorporates its booklet as an exhibit and Request the City Council to approve this contractual agreement. I
 And whereas the City Council intends to pay for some construction costs for city infrastructure after it is fully constructed and has been accepted by the City, and whereas Partners for Better Housing Incorporated has promised to use all of the savings it will receive from the City's cost share payment for city infrastructure to fund low-income, soft-second mortgages to help lower-income citizens to purchase homes in Willow Bend.
 now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby determines that the facts stated above create an extraordinary situation in which normal competitive bidding is not feasible or practical
 and therefore waives competitive bidding, and in reliance upon the statements, promises, commitments, and examples within the Homes at Willow Bend booklet and the contractual agreement, approves the contractual agreement and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign the agreement. Okay. Chris. Chris.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This agreement is a follow-up to the resolution that was passed in 2013. It establishes the terms for the $1 million reimbursement for the documented infrastructure expenses. It's pretty simple on the city side. Once the infrastructure is completed and accepted by the city, we'll go through the normal inspection process again.
 etc. Once that is done, then the million dollar payment would be made to the developer. In return for that, the obligation for the homes at Willow Bend, Partners for Better Housing, is to deliver a third of the proposed 76 homes to buyers with household incomes of 50 to 80%.
 area median income and another third of the homes to buyers at 81 to 100 percent of the area median median income remaining homes to be sold at that market rates the budget in terms of budget for this project five hundred thousand dollars is included in the 2016
 transportation fund and another 500,000 is in the 2017 CIP to support the project and reimbursement for the project would not be until 2017 after the work is completed again. Partners for Ratter Housing does have a representative here, the executive director Michael Ward and mayor if you would he would like to present like a
 Do you want to wait until they do the presentation or you're on the floor? I'd like to ask Chris a couple questions. Chris, if it was just the XYZ development company coming in, me and a few of my friends got together and we wanted to develop something here in Fayetteville, would we get a million dollars from the city?
 The council has the authority to authorize these cost share agreements. We bring them from time to time, and it's just a case-by-case basis that the money is available, and the city, the council deems it to be a good deal for the city, then you certainly could. Anybody can ask the question. So, yes, that money is available. Thank you.
 Brian. Okay, let me ask you this. Suppose my XYZ development company convinces us that the council will give us a million dollars. And we go out and we spend the money on the infrastructure and then we ask the city for reimbursement and we say that we're going to take the million dollars and we're going to subsidize loans for low income people or below average income people. And as soon as you make the million dollar reimbursement to us, we declare bankruptcy. Do those people ever get helped?
 um i think that's a good legal question as to what might happen right exactly uh thank you chris okay good evening mayor vice mayor council members my name is michael ward i'm the executive director of partners for better housing and uh i'm very pleased to be standing here to discuss this tonight um it's been a long time in the works as you know
 Appreciate Chris's overview, so I won't go into the details. You have a robust packet for your review, which I'm sure you spent some time with already. Just very briefly, Homes at Willow Bend is a nine-acre infill site in the Walker Park neighborhood, located between Washington Avenue and Wood Avenue. We target to build 77 homes over the next three to four years.
 Utilizing traditional neighborhood development tenants foster community and connectivity and as Chris explained The the goal is to build a mixed-income community the main purpose of my standing here tonight is to just kind of review the history of this project and it began way before I was involved and
 It started more or less in November of 2010 when the City of Fayetteville was awarded a grant from the Home Depot Foundation through the Sustainable Cities Institute, which in part funded the master planning for Willow Bend in addition to several other items that the city has employed. And then May 21st of 2013, as we've discussed, resolution 117-13.
 was approved with the intent for the cost share agreement. One thing that's not on here is in December of 2013, and the reason it's not on here is because it didn't come to council,
 The consultant that Partners for Better Housing had hired, John Anderson, met with staff including Mr. Williams, Mr. Becker, Mr. Brown, and Mr. Nearingarden to discuss the proposed soft second mortgage and several of the other details. Mr. Williams wrote a memo, an internal memo to the mayor subsequently.
 The council approved the CIP budget for 2015 to 2019 with the cost share item for Willow Bend allocated. Then in December 15, 2015, the Planning Commission approved our request to rezone the property, not only unanimously but with enthusiasm, which then went to council January 5, 2016, as well as a variance from the Master Street Plan for our streets, both of which were approved unanimously by the council.
 Then on March 28th, our preliminary plot was approved. At this point, we are a matter of weeks away from getting our construction documents completed. We have a signed contract with the site contractor. We have a lender who is ready to write the loan, pending some paperwork and pending this final agreement. So all that to say is my hope is we can bring some closure and really move forward with this project that's been in the works for six years.
 And finally, I don't need to go into it in Chris Brown's excellent memo,
 emphasizes this as well. Our project directly meets four out of the six goals of your 2030 plan and I could probably stand here and argue how it also meets goals number four and five but I don't feel a need to do that. Most importantly the target main purpose for Partners for Better Housing is to meet goal six which is to build attainable housing in Fayetteville and potentially throughout the region.
 I'm here as well as the board chair of the nonprofit to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. John. Mr. Ward, just a question or two. You're building 77 homes. How many of that 77 will be subsidized through this million-dollar subsidy? Potentially two-thirds of the homes. Well, the buyers will be subsidized. We should clarify that. So two-thirds of the homes? We round it to call it 78 homes so the math is easier. It potentially means...
 26 homes will be dedicated to people who make between 50 and 80 percent of area median income and then 26 homes will be dedicated to people who make 81 to 100 percent of area median income at the time of purchase so you'll have two groups of 26 52 altogether that'll be subsidized that's the plan so suppose you have a hundred people wanting to move into these 56 52 homes
 How do you decide who gets this up and who doesn't? Seeing as how we haven't done this before, we have to create a vetting process, obviously. But I would argue that's one of those good problems to have. When you're giving away money, you'll find you have a lot of friends. They have to qualify. Not anyone can get this. They have to qualify for a standard, either conventional or FHA mortgage first.
 for X amount, the soft second mortgage serves only to fill the gap between the market rate and house price and what they qualify for. So the income stipulations, credit requirements, and qualifying for mortgage. Those all have to come first. Is your plan still to forgive the subsidy if they live there for 12 years?
 And so is that a contractual provision in your contract that you're proposing? With buyers, you mean? Right, with the buyers. Yeah, that will be part of the contract with the sales sector. Well, if we, the city council, give you a million dollars, we expect you to do what you tell us you're going to do with it. So if you're telling us you're going to give it away in 12 years, we expect you to be obligated to that, right? One would assume. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Ward? Sure.
 Okay. Let's open it up for some public comment. Who would like to start? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Well, here we are. Adele. Yes, sir. I've been here. We've talked about it. We all know it's something we've been in our hands. We've talked about it recently. But we'll go on and move on with this. And so I would...
 would help that we could support this and move on and create these affordable homes. Okay. Sarah. We have found ourselves in the unfortunate position where wages are not keeping cost or keeping track with the cost of housing in our community. And I think that this is a really innovative solution to enable people to make that first step into home ownership.
 I've received a lot of positive feedback from the neighborhood in favor of this. I'm looking forward to the drainage infrastructure that's going to be part of this that will help improve an area that right now is experiencing a lot of right-of-way drainage and it's causing issues for people down in that neighborhood. And as well, this project will improve the connectivity in that neighborhood.
 there are a lot of homes within walking distance of goods and services down there but there are not a lot of pedestrian connections through there and this will have implications much greater than just the houses that we're building but on the neighborhood as a whole which i think will be very positive so with that i would like to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading well hang on i believe council member long for this moment
 I just wanted to make a comment in general. I appreciate everything that the partners for better housing have done here. It was 2013 when this was initially discussed at the city council and set forth in the budget and I had a concern then that the city couldn't
 do this and require that that subsidy be given for some people and not others. And after speaking with the city attorney, I still have the same concern because the city attorney doesn't know that we can legally do this 100 percent and I'm not going to vote to allocate city funds when there could be a chance that we could be sued over that and lose. And the second concern that I have is, you
 Some that's been expressed to me from my constituents is that they're paying these taxes and they want to see a portion of this money spent in their area of town. And I can understand that concern. It's legitimate. But the reason I won't be supporting this is because the city attorney doesn't feel that we can 100% without a doubt survive a legal challenge on that. Okay. John. Okay.
 Mr. Ward, that's what Alan just spoke is my big problem with it. We're taking a million dollars from our other taxpayers and giving them to 52 or so special taxpayers. And that's what I have the problem with. We're asking people to put off buying a new car, to scraping by,
 My impression of most of my constituents is they go to work like I do. They come home. They get the children in bed, watch a little TV maybe, and start over all again in the morning. It's one foot in front of the next trying to make ends meet. And I don't feel good about asking them to pay for somebody else's house when they're struggling to pay for their own. And that's...
 The point that Alan makes about legality, we discussed this with Mr. Williams at our agenda session. He tells us, well, it's probably legal. I'm not trying to emphasize the point. Well, I was very relieved to know it's probably legal, but I'd prefer to have more assurance than that. And even if it is legal, I'm still taking from my constituents that are working hard
 get them to pay for somebody else's house. I have a problem with that. I'd rather see everybody pay for their own house. That's why I can't support it. It's basic fairness. Mark? We're talking a lot tonight about economic vitality of our community. I was on the original...
 Group of partners for better housing when we were looking at options for affordable housing because it was one of the goals Set forth by the city and a city plan we were fortunate to get property
 that was not utilized in the south part of town, property that needed attention for infrastructure, property that was otherwise not being utilized. This program is going to allow us to expand economic opportunities for individuals that can live and work in our city and become productive in the long run.
 That's why I think this is an important project and an important role and an important investment. It's not in the short run. It is for the long run, and it's for the long-run vitality of that area of town. It fits into the Walker Park plan that we worked a long time on. I can understand if someone says, I don't want to support someone else. That's their right.
 I can understand that, but I pay taxes too. And when I pay my taxes, I have compassion. I have a caring nature for folks that want to own a home. I was a mortgage banker, and it was too often that I saw folks not have the opportunity to achieve the American dream and the initial opportunity to have their own home.
 So I have compassion for those individuals. These are hardworking individuals, and these are people that are looking for an opportunity. We have the chance to provide an opportunity to revitalize a part of our town that is otherwise not vital. It's not being developed. We have the opportunity to give folks a chance to live in the community
 and a chance to live in an area of town where they can find employment opportunities. So that's why I'm supporting this. It's not that this hasn't been discussed for years and years. It has. And we've had a lot of support over the years on this project. And to see that we're right at the cusp of seeing the dream come true
 to see the opportunity that we can offer to individuals that otherwise cannot have the American dream to own their home. With my heart and my soul, I believe this is the right thing to do. So that's why I'm supporting this. Okay. What we have right now is a motion on the floor to go to the second reading. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, I'll second the motion. Okay. We have a motion to go to the second reading.
 So would you please call the roll? Wong. No. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Keenan. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No.
 an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to approve the contractual agreement attached to the engineering department's agenda memo in the form of a cost share agreement with partners for better housing incorporated in the amount of up to 1 million dollars pursuant to resolution number 117-13
 I'd like to point out that what we're actually doing here is reimbursing for infrastructure improvements. That's going to be your streets and sidewalks. And this is in a neighborhood that has historically been underinvested in.
 If you go down there, we're uncovering now as developers are starting to come in, areas without sewer lines. There are large swaths of this neighborhood that were built without sidewalks, without appropriate drainage infrastructure so that people, instead of having a sidewalk, you have a ditch with standing water in your front yard.
 the partners for better housing is going to go in and they're going to build the infrastructure including the low impact development infrastructure and we are going to reimburse them for those improvements to our city and then they're going to turn around and take that money and use it for a good cause which is to create opportunities for attainable housing which is one of our primary city plan goals um as to the legality of this you know i i do hope that it is legal i you know um
 Our kids best advice is that it probably is You know if the city is going to get sued for something, you know, I think that Trying to find innovative ways to serve our citizens with affordable housing It's not such a bad thing to have to defend and and I'm willing to stand by that So with that I'm gonna make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading more. I'll second that Okay So, I'm which police call the roll
 no yes yes yes no and ordinance away competitive bidding and to approve the contractual agreement attached to the engineering department's agenda memo in the form of a cost share agreement with partners for better housing in the amount of up to 1 million dollars pursuant to resolution number 117 dash 13 mr. mayor as you and the City Council members know I've written
 A few memos on this going back three years expressing some concerns that I had with it. I've tried to research this extensively. I am concerned because of Article II, Section 18, privileges and immunities equality of the Arkansas Constitution which states that General Assembly shall not grant to any citizen or class of citizens privileges or immunities which upon the same terms shall not equally belong to all citizens.
 I have found cases interpreting this. They have both enforced this on occasion and invalidated the statute, and they have upheld statutes. The most recent one talked about that you must treat everybody the same that is similarly situated. Does that mean that we can, through indirect means, assist people
 persons that are earning below the average median income and treat them all the same but not but treat them differently than people making more money that's really the big issue I think that it is more likely than not than this contract that we that I have drafted up in response to your request is constitutional I think it is
 However, as I said in my last memo to you and my conclusion that this is a risk of potentially a million dollars, which is real money, and I will take the more cautious approach and say that I would rather you stay clearly within our power and not get close to the edge, even though I think you are probably not going over the edge in this. And so my recommendation cannot be in support
 of this contract and this ordinance. However, I will note that even though at a million dollars that's a lot of money, it is a finite amount of money. And when I have been
 more forceful in asking you not to do something, that's usually because there were very much more risk for the city, both real risk and also all the amount of money that would be involved. And in this case, I do think it comes down to a policy decision. Are you willing to take a reasonable, fairly small amount of risk even though the downside is possibly a million dollars?
 This resolution that you passed and this intent that you have and this purpose that you have in this, is it worth taking that risk? As Alderman Marsh said, we are basically paying for our infrastructure. We can certainly do that. But in order to try to protect that investment, as Alderman Latour wants us to do, I have drafted a contract to try to assure that
 Any of this money that we are paying to the developers once we have accepted the city infrastructure that they have built would be used as you want it to be used and not pocketed. And so therefore there is a pretty direct link between the city and the soft second mortgages that this money would fund. And because of that there is some constitutional risk.
 It is not high in my opinion, but there is some risk and I just wanted to make sure that everybody was pretty well understood what my position was on this. And if anybody has any questions, I will answer them. But I just wanted to say that before the final public. Okay. Do we have any questions for the City Attorney? Okay. Any final comments? John? Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Mr. Williams, when I asked Mr. Ward, you know, he has 52 houses he's going to subsidize. Well, suppose he gets 100 applicants for those houses. And he told us that he didn't have the vetting process quite down. I'm sure he can come up with some plan to vet. But that still means that 52 people are getting treatment in that same income class that the other 48 people are not getting.
 So we have people similarly situated. They earn the same below-average income, and 52 of them are getting a preferential treatment, and 48 are not. Whatever basis you decided on, therein lies the problem. I think the answer to that, even though we're not going to run the program, it's not ours, but I would...
 the way the contract is drafted they have to continue to offer the soft second mortgages until all of the money that the city has paid for the infrastructure is exhausted
 So, they will have to vet the applicants to see if they can also qualify for some of the other types of assistance that they outlined in their booklet. And I included the booklet as an exhibit to the contract, as part of the contract, because I intend to hold them to it. Everything they said in their booklet, everything they presented to you, to encourage you to agree to this contract.
 I'm going to do my best to hold them to it. And I think that the answer to your question is that when the money is out, then I guess they cannot accept any more applications. But I think that they must treat everybody fairly up to that point in time. There will be a process for these people to have to go through and get many other supports usually to be able to qualify to be able to purchase one of these houses.
 And so I think that that process will be what will be utilized. And it's kind of like going to be a first come, first served. And when the money runs out, then the money runs out. And I don't think that the courts would say that that was an unfair system. Mr. Mayor? Yes. Just one more comment. Sure. Sure.
 I want people to understand that you're not showing compassion in your heart and soul when you vote to spend taxpayer money. If you want to show us your compassion, show us your checkbook, where you spend your money, not where you spend other people's money. A very famous female British Prime Minister said, the problem with socialism is, sooner or later you run out of other people's money to spend. And that's what we're doing here, we're spending other people's money.
 to benefit a select group. And maybe they need to be benefited, but I'd rather see them benefit through some private means instead of a forced giving through the police power of the state or through our city. I'm not saying we don't want to help these people. I want to help these people. But I think there are better ways to do it than just through taxation. And that's what we're doing here. I'm sorry. Anybody else?
 All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Welcome. No. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinnant. Yes. Petty. Yes. Hinnant. Topmine. Yes. Look here. No. Okay. All right, moving along to number 10. An ordinance to amend Chapter 6, payment structure and materials of the minimum street standards manual to allow alleys to be constructed with gravel payment sections in certain circumstances. Kipp.
 Whereas Ordinance No. 5789, which was passed by the Fayetteville City Council on August 4, 2015, adopted Minimum Street Standards Manual as part of the Unified Development Code and requires the City Council approval for amendments to these standards.
 and whereas section 6.1.3 standard pavement sections of the minimum street standards manual currently requires that pavement section requirements for alley construction be the same as for public roadway unless alternative materials are approved by the city engineer
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Section 6.1.4, Alleys, of the Amendment and Street Standards, by appending the language below and renumbers the following sections accordingly.
 6.1.4 will say as follows, existing alley rights of way which have a grade less than 5% in all directions are exempt from the requirements of this chapter and may be constructed in accordance with Section 172.11 and . Alleys constructed in this manner shall use angular surface gravel approved by the City Engineer for its ability to maintain compaction.
 When constructed, alternative pavements shall pass a proof rolling test conducted with a loaded dump truck. The crown shall be constructed using best practices from the Federal Highway Administration publication, gravel roads and maintenance. The city engineer shall have the authority to require drainage measures, such as underdrains and culverts where necessary. Maintenance windrows of pavement materials shall not be allowed. The city of Fayetteville shall not be responsible for maintaining alleys constructed in this manner. Okay.
 Chris, do you have this? Or Matthew, do you have this? Sure. Thank you, Mayor. So I brought this ordinance forward a couple of months ago. We reviewed it at Planning Commission a couple times. Ultimately, it was approved whenever we amended it to utilize the language from the section on driveway standards in the code.
 And what it does is it says for alleys that are already platted, which are in the oldest sections of Fayetteville, if those alleys haven't been constructed and somebody would like to use an alley for rear access instead of a driveway, they have the opportunity to treat that alley, to construct that alley exactly as they would a driveway.
 That's about all it says except for it also because it would be a public right of way instead of a private driveway. It gives the city engineer a little bit more authority than they have over driveways today. I'm happy to answer any questions about it. You know, the precedent for this is several of the old alleys that we already have in the historic district. Okay. Al? I do have one question, Matthew. So, you know, I think it's important to understand that the historic district is a
 we'll allow them to construct these with gravel but at the same time the city won't take responsibility for maintaining it yes and that's inconformant that's in parity with the current policy we have with alleys okay John Matthew if we won't maintain these alleys that are constructed this way will we require the person who built it this way to maintain it oh
 The existing ordinance, chapter 172, does provide some maintenance requirements, and there is a violation of that chapter if the driveway is not maintained properly. By the adjoining landowner? Yes.
 the the it would be in violation of the city ordinance and it would be essentially it'd be they could be issued a violation by the city okay so you're saying the joining landowner has the obligation of maintaining the alleyway
 the adjoining landowner well that that's kind of where it gets a little bit murky in that it's it's uh it's within city right-of-way so uh you know two owners could could own that or multiple owners could own the driveway so then it becomes a matter of um you know those property owners working it out as to who would be maintaining it but as you just said the city owns the right-of-way in the alleyway right not the owners
 Right, but when we talk about the Chapter 172, that is the driveway ordinance, so there are maintenance requirements for driveways, and that would be by the property owners, by the users of that driveway. Okay. So if I get permission from the city engineer to build an aggregate alleyway instead of
 the city would be looking to me to maintain if we get a big heavy rain it washes all the rocks away i have to pay to have more rocks brought in right
 It's just like private streets or so some of the locations where the developer chose not to build to the street standard and they built it as a private street or they have an alleyway that was built like in Salem Village, all of the roads that are not the public streets are actually the POA and that particular location is responsible for maintaining those.
 If there isn't a formal POA structure, it would be the homeowners of a journey-adjacent property to the alley. Like in my house, John, I have an alley that I put in. I just maintain that alley. I mean, the city has a load of gravel every year or two. That's reasonable. So I just know I'm going to be maintaining it. Just be clear where the obligations fall. I understand. Thank you. Mark. I'm a member of the board of trustees.
 Yes, Chris, I have a question here. I know over in my area where I live there are alleyways that are just grass, but they're planted as alleyways. Some people do utilize them to get to park underneath. Are they going to now be required to meet some kind of engineering standard even though they don't use them that much?
 No, we would typically look at using this ordinance as part of a new development, a new home, some type of new development. Any of the existing...
 Uses that are out there and you know city alleys are used for you know folks use them for their gardens. They have Storage buildings on them. They use them for various things None of that would change As far as in terms of this ordinance, but when I'm reading this I'm not sure that's clear. Is it clear? I
 Well, again, as how we enforce these type of things, it's always in accordance with development or as part of a development, part of a building permit, et cetera. We don't go out and enforce existing situations. Okay, thanks. Anybody else? Any public comment on this? Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. Okay.
 Who were the, quote, handful of contractors, unquote, who requested Mr. Petty to request this change? I haven't been authorized to share their name, but if you want to search the records, some of them have submitted e-mails to us already. So what? I'm not authorized to share their names, but some of them have submitted e-mail records to us today, and some of them might be in the audience to talk about it, but I'm not able to provide you... But if I do a Freedom of Information Act request for your e-mails, then I can get the names.
 Is that correct? I have two emails, so does everybody else that I received today that I can share with you. I'd be happy to do that. All right, that's fine. And secondly, I just, I don't know anything about this, but 5%, a 5% gradient for gravel. I know from driving down the highway that trucks are cautioned when it's a 6% gradient, and it just seemed a little steep. I don't know. Again, if the owners...
 If the owner or owners are going to have to replace damage when the thing washes out into the highway, then I guess that's the solution, although I wouldn't want it to be a murky solution, but it just seemed like a steep pitch, but I don't know. That's a good point because I have a driveway that is probably a little more than 5% as well, and I have to dump a load of gravel on that about every year. I've got it at both ends. Yes?
 My name is Rob sharp. I live in Ward one I'm here to speak in favor of this ordinance It sounds like a very minor detail of whether you can do a gravel alley or a paved alley or how the drainage is Worked out, but it it makes a big difference in terms of the cost of providing infrastructure which makes a huge difference in terms of the cost of providing housing and
 Any money spent on infrastructure, typically the cost of land and infrastructure is about 20% of the house cost. So anything that saves money on infrastructure multiplies itself five times across house cost.
 the more importantly what it does is it allows houses to have rear-loaded garages instead of having garages across the frontage which you know we i know we struggle with different ordinances on how to deal with garage frontage so this is one way that the city could rather than forbidding something can allow a compromise solution that's
 affordable it also gravel alleys people tend to drive slower on them because they don't want to kick up gravel and dust so they it's Safer, it's also more pervious to rainwater. And so it's more environmentally responsible So again, it sounds minor but it's it's one of the things that everybody wins And so I hope that the city will and not only pass this but consider it for all new development as a There's an allowable substitute for paving more surface. Thank you I
 I do have one question to make sure I understand the intent of the drafting. It says existing alley rights of way. Does that mean existing right now or existing any time in the future? What was, I mean, is this like for an infill sort of solution, so it's existing alleyways tonight? Yes. Okay, thank you. I'd like to make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. All right.
 Sarah second motion second to go to second reading Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, and your new cement chapter six pavement structure and materials of the minimum street standards manual to allow alleys to be constructed with gravel pavement sections in certain circumstances a
 Allen. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Justin. I'll second that. Okay. Now we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and order cement chapter six pavement structure and materials of the minimum street standards manual to allow alleys to be constructed with gray up gravel payment sections in certain circumstances okay is there any final comments from the council so under which please call the roll
 Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Union? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Schottmer? Yes. LeCue? Yes. Okay, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have?
 mayor a couple of announcements first to want to remind citizens that our last two ward cleanups for the fall are taking place over the next several weeks the next one is October the 22nd it's Ward ones one of the locations is shaver food at 1367 South Beachwood Avenue Ward twos will be conducted on November 19th that will be the final cleanup for the fall
 It's at the Church of Christ on Center Street and of course the recycling and trash facility at 1560 Happy Hollow will be open for both of those. They're not restricted to those wards. They're open to all members of the city but they are just rotated throughout the various wards of the city.
 This weekend we have our Alabama games. We want to caution our citizens to be careful. We expect increased traffic. We are trying our game day parking program again in the Dixon Street Entertainment Area at our Spring Street deck for individuals who want to park and be transported to the game with Razorback Transit. Thank you.
 That will be available. We also have a significant lane closure taking place on I-49 between exits 65 and 69 for Arkansas Highway and Transportation project work. It's a $94 million project taking place on the interstate. It will be closed from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., so you might want to think about that if you're traveling on I-49. That is, both the north and southbound lanes will have lane closures.
 It will remain open, but it will be limited lane usage. Also, I want to remind those individuals in our food truck business and industries that the city is currently taking food truck applications between October 3rd and October 31st, and that is to vend on public property.
 If we get more than three applicants, then we use a lottery drawing to determine who received those permits. If we get less than three, then it's first come, first served based on those applications.
 And then lastly, it's fall gardening season, so if you need mulch or you need compost, the cities open on Saturdays from 8 to noon, the first two Saturdays of each month. This Saturday is the last Saturday date for the month of October, and then in November we change to just the first Saturday of each month.
 2.5 yard cubic yard scoop of compost is $20 and mulch is $10 You can also buy them in bag form for 40 to 50 pound bags Just contact our recycling and trash division for that Alright anything else. All right. Thank you all were adjourned