i would like to call to order the october the first one twenty four city council meeting uh care which please call the road here here here here here jones jones more here we'd occur here bernard here mayor jordan here would you join me in the pledge of elite
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. I would like to welcome Rusty Turner's journalism class from the University of Arkansas. Would you stand and be recognized tonight? How about that?
 Well, I guarantee you we won't disappoint you. You'll have plenty to write about. OK. The first order of business we have tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. As everyone knows, I like to approach the podium. But since I'm having a few allergy problems tonight,
 and I don't want to mess up our microphone. I'm going to do it from my location here if that's suitable with the council. With that, I'll proceed. This is the monthly report for August of this year, so there are four months remaining. We talked a little bit about sales tax
 last week the city sales tax was up 1% the county was up 4.6% combined that's up 2.63% we're up about 1 3% in the general fund compared to last year which is under budget when we look at the individual sales is kind of a kind of a mixed review
 We had some major rebates, some from the university, it appears, because it was against education. So those are some of the rebates which detracted from the sales staff at this point of time, and some from information wireless communication carriers, and those are for underground cable, things of that nature. So they affected it a bit when I look at it.
 The accommodations and food services were up 1%. Retail trades up 3%. Electronic shopping was up 7%. But when we look at some of the other areas, furniture stores were down 23%. Home furnishings down 38%. Motor vehicle dealers down 17%. So it was either they were up a bit or they were down by a large portion.
 Again, the numbers were positive, however, we certainly would have seen them stronger. Where that puts us for the year, that puts us down about 5% compared to budget for sales tax and the general fund. Going along with the general fund, franchise fees at this point in time are down about 6% to the budget.
 Alcohol beverage taxes are down 5% to the budget. Building permit fees are up 10% at this time. And remember, building permits are driven by when that actual revenue is paid, not necessarily when the permits are being looked at to be approved or disapproved.
 The charges for services are about 2%, a little flat. That's parks, charges for programs and things of that nature. Court fees and fines were up over 20%. Interest...
 Earnings were up over 20% and miscellaneous was up almost 70%. We had a lot, but that's just a little. That was $95,000. That's just up to what we budgeted. So all in all, as we look at the city at this point in time, we're down about 2.9% in the revenue estimates.
 Again, at this point in time, that's for the general fund. When I look at the street fund, again, remember, the street fund's been pretty strong the last three or four years, starting to level off. All of the street fund comes from turn-back, half-cent sales tax, MFT taxes from the state, and that's down about 2% at this point in time. Parking fees are down 7% to the budget.
 Remember that budget, however, we're still up about 10% compared to what we collected last year So that's kind of mixed as we look at it HMR taxes right now are flat compared to budget Remember we struggled a bit with HMR taxes early in the year hotel motel restaurant taxes right now It's flat compared to the budget and it is over about 1.8% compared to last year so we're starting to come back in that in that area and
 As far as water and sewer services are concerned, we're roughly flat with water and sewer service charges at this point in time compared to budget. Recycling and trash collection is flat compared to budget. That's been down most of the year, so that's coming back a little bit. And as far as airport's concerned, their total sales are up 2% over last year. Their flights are still down a little over 3%, but their sales.
 of fuel, of avgas, is picking up compared to what it's been earlier this year. And with that, I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have, Paul? Anything? Okay. All right. We have a walk-on.
 An ordinance to amend 161.36 urban corridor by enacting a new age protection for single family zone districts to provide the same protections for adjoining single family residential districts is currently required for urban thoroughfare in all multifamily districts.
 Tricia, I believe this is yours, or Kit, do you take it from here? All right. Thank you, Mayor. This is, this relates to our urban corridor plan, which is D2, so I'd like to move it to new business next to D2. In conjunction with that, I think it would make a lot more sense.
 So that would be a motion to suspend the rules in order to do that. It requires two-thirds majority. I'm sure. I'm sorry. Yes, I'd like to move to suspend the rules and add this to the agenda under new business item D2. Second. Underneath D2. I want to be sure the positioning on.
 I'm right before d2 because it would be we can discuss it to a minute yes Teresa I do have a request would it be okay if we moved it to d3 so we could get all the information from d2 as long as we don't move d2 like move past the first reading yes I'd be happy to do that okay thank you that'd be helpful for me I appreciate it so we want to move it after thank you
 All right. I still second that. Okay, second that. We've got a motion and a second to move it right after D2 on new business. So first let's vote to see if we're going to put it on here at all. All right. We've got a motion and a second. Any discussion from the council? Yes, Bob? Do we have a copy of the text? I don't know.
 We sent one out to you by email, and I think it was also listed on the agenda, and it's here on the agenda. I just pulled it up myself. It's the very first item, if you'd look on your computer. So y'all didn't get copies? I got an email. Would the email come from your office? Yes, it did. And it was actually sent out on September 26th. Okay, thank you.
 But it's also in our agenda. I tried to get that out as soon as I could to you all so you would have plenty of time to read it. I just want to be sure everybody's okay before we vote. And this is just to put it on the agenda, not to make a decision on it. Okay. Well, let's go ahead and vote and see what happens. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burner? Yes. Okay, do not let me forget. I'm sure you won't. When we get to that, I've got a little, got it marked. All right, let's do the consent then. All right, number one, approval of the September 17, 2024 City Council Meeting Managers.
 Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of wireless services and equipment from Cellco Partnership DBA Verizon Wireless pursuant to a National Association of State Procurement Officials Value Point Cooperative Purchasing Agreement on an as-needed basis through August 11, 2025 and any future renewal periods.
 Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 20-foot low-profile tandem axle trailer from Premier Trailer Sales in the amount of $17,292.70 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original purchase price and to approve budget adjustment. Number four, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Ford 150 Hybrid from Lewis Ford Sales
 incorporated pursuant to Ordinance 6491 in the amount of $53,298 plus any applicable surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees up to 10% of the original purchase price and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number five, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with RJN Group, Incorporated, pursuant to RFQ 24-01, Selection Number 3, in the amount not to exceed $267,380 for water line condition assessment
 pre-planning services and to approve budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to approve number one to the professional engineering services agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated any amount of $35,300 for construction-based services for the College Avenue water line replacement project. Number seven, a resolution to approve budget adjustment any amount of $15,000 recognizing revenue received from Walmart.
 resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of thirty two thousand six hundred fifty eight dollars allocating State Fire Protection Services program funds for the purchase of fire equipment number nine
 A resolution to approve Federal Police Department Policies 1.1.1, Law Enforcement Agency Rule 1.2.1, Limits of Authority 12.1.1, Organizational Structure, Function, and Direction 12.2.1, Policy Procedures, Rules, and Development and Review Procedures 41.1.1, and
 Patrol 41.2.5, missing persons 41.3.6, narcotic overdose, intranasal naloxone 42.1.1, criminal investigations, and 71.1.1, detainee transportation.
 i will entertain a motion except consent agenda is ready so moved second we have a motion as second to accept consent agenda is ready care which police call the road bench yes turk yes herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes yes okay thank you now we're going to open up a public hearing um
 It is an ordinance to approve the application of Jessica Aguilaro-Hyatt on behalf of the VIP Club, BBA, Don Cabron nightclub for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Federal at 326 Northwest Avenue, suite number 6. Mayor, since this is an ordinance, I need to go ahead and read it before the public hearing. OK. OK.
 Whereas Act 1112 of 2017, which amended the permitting procedure set forth in Arkansas Code Annotated 3-9-222 for private clubs in the state of Arkansas, requires the City Council to approve, by ordinance, an application for a permit to operate as a private club before the applicant can submit an application to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Division. Now, therefore, be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves the application of Jessica Aguilar-Hyatt on behalf of the VIP Club doing business as Don Cabron Nightclub, a copy of which is attached to the agenda request form for a permit to operate as a private club in the City of Fayetteville at 326 Northwest Avenue, Suite 6, under the condition to set forth in Section 2.
 This application is subject to the following conditions which must be satisfied prior to the issuance of a City Private Club permit. Number one, the business owner and business manager shall comply with all City of Fayetteville and Arkansas alcohol beverage control permitting regulations. Number two, the business owner or business manager shall contact the Fayetteville Police Department's Community Oriented Policing Division to schedule training for their staff to properly identify fraudulent IDs. Number three, the business owner or business manager shall contact the Fayetteville Police Department's Community Oriented Policing Division to schedule training for their staff to properly identify fraudulent IDs.
 3. It is recommended that the business owner and business manager research different phone apps or programs to assist their employees in identifying fraudulent IDs. 4. A multi-camera surveillance system must be installed on the inside of the business to provide video surveillance of the main entrance, exit of the bar area and registers. 5. The business owner and business manager shall provide a good neighbor policy to surrounding businesses and residents of a private club.
 Number six, a private club representative who holds the ABC alcohol permit shall obtain the minimum training requirements as a private security officer as defined by Arkansas Code Annotated 17-40-208. Upon completing the training, the private club representative shall receive a PSO training certificate.
 Anytime the ABC permit holder changes and a new ABC application for a change of manager, additional stockholders, or partners is completed, the newly approved ABC permit holder shall obtain the private security officer training and certification as outlined in ACA 17-40-208.
 The applicant will contact the Fayetteville Police Department Special Events Division Supervisor at 479-575-8350 to obtain additional information to complete this training. And number seven, on completion of the required PSO training, the private club ABC permit holder shall provide a copy of their PCO training certificate to the Fayetteville Police Department Special Events Division Supervisor.
 Good evening, Mayor and Councilmembers. Staff recommends approval of an ordinance for VIP Club doing business as Donk Brown Nightclub to operate as a private club at 326 NW Avenue, Suite 6. Councilmember Turk had asked some questions during the agenda session about the calls for service at the location. We responded to three calls for service, none of which had an access to any wrongdoing at the business.
 Additionally, we had completed 50 business checks at the location and had no issues. In fact, the staff has been extremely cooperative and that's been relayed through all levels of review. Ms. Aguilar-Hyatt is the applicant and the owner. She's here to answer additional questions.
 I know that there were some questions about her experience running a business or a bar that serves alcohol. While she doesn't have direct experience of running a business that serves alcohol, she has extensive experience running a business and she also has a partner, she can speak more to this as well, that has experience running a business that serves alcohol as well. We're ready for any questions. Tim, you might want to introduce yourself to the council. Sorry, Captain Shepard. I apologize. I know who you are, but I'm...
 Okay, but does the applicant want to speak before the council? I mean do you? No, I think that everything he just said, unless you have any questions, I'd be more than happy to answer them. It's a little nerve-wracking being up here, you know? I feel like I'm in trouble or something, but... We're pretty good folks. Whatever questions you might have, you all seem very friendly. I'd be more than happy to answer them. Okay.
 uh what questions to it please i just want to say thank you captain shepherd for tracking down answers to my questions last week and thank you appreciate it anybody else got any questions all right well let's go to some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that wants to speak on this issue? Anybody on Zoom? You have no one on Zoom with your hand raised. All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the council? Mayor, I'd vote to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Mayor, would you please call the roll?
 Yes, sir. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, Stafford. Yes, Jones. Yes, or yes Yes, yes In order to approve the application of Jessica Aguilar who at Hyatt on behalf of the VI Club VIP Club doing business as Don Cabron nightclub for permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 326 Northwest Avenue suite 6. I
 I make a motion to spend the rules no third finally second Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Yes
 in order to approve the application of jessica aguilar hyatt on behalf of the vip club doing business as don cabron nightclub for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of fable at 326 northwest avenue suite 6. any final comments from council
 care which police call wrong bunch yes sir yes herdsburg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes bernard yes okay thank you all now let's go to unfinished business number one a resolution to approve and adopt the urban forestry
 Management plan John I understand what you would like to take. Yeah, thank you appreciate that good evening mayor council We would like to table it we would we're waiting for some feedback from key stoke the steep key stakeholders Which is the public it's open for public comment until October 11th, and then? After that will give us some time to hit edits and make the next agenda session So what date would you like to November 5th? Yeah
 Except that's the seventh because the fifth is election. Our council meeting is on the seventh. Okay, so the seventh. Yes. All right. I'll motion we table to the seventh. Okay. Second. We have a motion to second the table to November the seventh. Any final comments? Yes.
 Chair, please call. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. All right, thank you all. Let's go to the new business. An ordinance to amend 97.081 intoxicating beverages,
 In Chapter 97, Parks and Natural Resources, Cultural Affairs, to clarify the Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks, may allow alcoholic beverages to be served on its premises without the need for a special event permit. Yes. Whereas the City of Fayetteville entered into a long-term need for the Apple Garden of the Ozarks,
 in 1997 and the panther garden of the ozarks that's been successfully operating at lake table since that time whereas in 2016 the city approved an ordinance 6029 allowing the panther garden society of the ozarks to serve alcohol on premises they have leases within lake table park here for fundraisers wedding receptions and other special events as long as they fully comply with all
 And whereas this amendment would clarify that BDSO is not required to obtain a special city permit for selling alcohol on the premise that they lease, but must still fully comply with all alcoholic beverage control requirements. And therefore, it would be ordained by the city council to see a favor of Arkansas section one,
 that city council cfa
 Okay, Alice. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Kit, this is a pretty good summary of what the request is. But, Botanical Garden, as Kit mentioned, leased land since 1997. They've been doing a great job running the garden out there. The ordinance in 2016 allowed them to serve alcohol on the leased premises.
 They host a variety of fundraisers and events out there to help support the garden And so this ordinance is simply a clarification that they do not need any further city Permits to serve that alcohol on the lease premises as long as they fully comply with the alcoholic beverage control requirements And I am here for any questions that you might have. Okay, what questions do we have? Anything? Okay, then let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this particular topic?
 No one's on Zoom there. Okay. This is an ordinance. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Move that we suspend the rolls and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Weeder? Yes. Garner? Yes. In order to amend section 97.081, intoxicating beverages, in chapter 97, parks, natural resources, and cultural affairs, to clarify that the Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks may allow alcoholic beverages to be served on its premises without the need for a special event permit. Okay. Move that we suspend.
 Sorry. Move that we suspend the rolls and go to the third reading. Second. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Bench. Yes. Third. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Yes.
 Or? Yes. Will you occur? Yes. Or no? Yes. In Ordinance Amendment Section 97.081, Intoxicating Beverages in Chapter 97, Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs, to clarify that the Mechanical Garden Society of the Ozarks may allow alcoholic beverages to be served on its premises without the need for a special event permit. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Thank you.
 care would you please call the road bunch yes kirk yes herdsburg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes we did her yes yes all right number two an ordinance to rezone the property inscribed and rezoning petition rzn 2024-38 for approximately 586 acres for various
 for various properties within the city limits along the 71B corridor located primarily on North College Avenue and School Avenue in wards 1, 2, and 3 from various zoning districts to urban corridor and RSF 4 residential single-family 4 units per acre. Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the 508 partials shown on the map, Exhibit A, attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C2, Third Fair Commercial, RO, Residential Office, RSF4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre,
 I-1 Heavy Commercial Line Industrial, UT Urban Thoroughfare, C-1 Neighborhood Commercial, CS Community Services, RMF24 Residential Multifamily 24 U.P.A., and RI-12 Residential Intermediate 12 U.P.A. to UC Urban Corridor.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby changing the zone classification of the six split-zone parcels shown on the map, Exhibit A, attached to the Planning Department's Addenda Memo from RSF-4 Residential Single Family, 4 Units per Acre, RO Residential Office, and C2 Third Fair Commercial to RSF-4 Residential Single Family, 4 Units per Acre.
 Section 3 that the City Council the city of fail arc saw hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 and 2 Thank you, Mary. Good afternoon. I am I have May I make a motion or just suspend the rules considering the complexity of what she's gonna be talking about instead of stopping her At 10 minutes go ahead and on the front end give her 20 minutes so that we can hear it straight through. I
 because it is so complex. If everybody's agreeable, then that's what we'll do. Okay. Okay. Thanks, Scott. Go ahead, Brenda. Good afternoon, Mayor, and thank you very much, Council. I do have a little bit longer presentation than normal this evening. So I stood in front of y'all last October with the housing assessment, and here I am 11 months later with one of the key recommendations, which was to continue implementation of the 71B corridor master plan. And what y'all have seen a lot of over the last
 five, six years now is transportation projects. A lot of money being spent, a lot of public investment being made. But this is a piece that we haven't moved forward on yet. And so here I am to bring you the 71B rezoning project. And so what I'm excited about is that we're working on implementing these two items in bold and you should be seeing some of the development and implementation of that growth concept map in about two weeks with economic vitality master plan.
 But today we're here for a rezoning. After World War II, Fayetteville doubled in population. And by after World War II, I mean in about five years, Fayetteville went from 8,000 people to 17,000 people. And the city's response at the time, it being very small, as you see here on this 1940 map, was we'll just expand out as far as we need to go so that things stay low density and we don't have commercial and residential mixed together.
 We see from this map from the Arkansas Highway Department that almost 100 years ago Fayetteville was crisscrossed prominently by state highways. And that continues today. So what a lot of our citizens may not be familiar with is that the roads that they drive on are oftentimes state highways, even within the city limits.
 And we had the opportunity to take one of those in, the 71B corridor in 2020, and that was a game changer for us, not only in our options for investment, in our options for a walkable community, but also our options for land use and the way that we can vision this corridor in the future.
 Really this work began about 20 years ago and that probably seems a little astounding to say But when we began with the downtown master plan in 2004 we began looking at Fayetteville differently We began looking at our land use differently and the way that we invest the public money a little bit differently
 And so up until that point we'd been very focused on the separation of commercial and residential uses, but the rezoning that came with that downtown master plan was really focused on one, preserving existing neighborhoods, but also giving room for the downtown to grow with a mix of housing and commercial uses both. And so as we continued on with the adoption of city plans, and as we continued on with the creation of new zoning districts, we were
 We were bringing forward zoning districts even in 2010 that combined those housing and commercial uses together within the same zoning, rather than keeping them separated as they had been previously. So our urban thoroughfare zoning district, for example, originated in 2010. So we're more than a decade beyond its birth as we're considering implementing a new zoning district
 this evening. And so as again, as we kind of come into 2019 2020, this is right before COVID and I hate to keep reminding of people but a lot has happened since these decisions were made. But the city voted on a bond that made a massive public investment in the city that we wanted to be in the future. And so during COVID, there was not
 a lot of visibility because we weren't able to have the public meetings that Fayetteville likes to have, but you saw a lot of work in those public investments and transportation infrastructure. And so with the right-of-way handoff in 2020, that gave us options for turning a state highway, which was meant to deliver vehicles as many as possible, as fast as possible, through the center of our city into a city street, into an urban street, which gave us different options. And so now here we are in 2024 with this rezoning before you all.
 You may recognize some of the people in these photos. I recognize some people in these photos. We did a lot of public engagement and a lot of input during that 71B corridor planning process from 2017 to 2019. And a lot of important information was captured at that time.
 Again, a lot of those projects are either planned or underway or in the process to be bid here shortly. But something that I want to focus on because I talked about this is one of those important implementation pieces. It says ensure that ultimate zoning strategy accommodates residential and mixed-use development. Something that our current zoning, which is primarily commercial only, does not do.
 It improves the street definition and increases development density by establishing a clear building line zone and reduces the visibility and impact of parking and outdoor display areas. That was a big picture idea. It didn't give a lot of specifics. It didn't specify a zoning district, but at the time, Urban Thoroughfare was the new mixed-use zoning district that this plan references quite a bit.
 And so we wanted to make sure that since we were post-COVID, we were a few years after that plan began being implemented, that we checked back in with the community. So over the summer, we held seven in-person meetings. We had an online survey with a lot of responses. And I think I counted about 26 different engagement points, whether that was a public meeting,
 presenting to a city commission, an interview that was aired through public media, an article that was being written, a lot of opportunities to connect with people and get that really important feedback. And our community helped us create what ultimately turned out to be a new zoning district
 We have had a project webpage up for several months, and so this is a great place for people to get up-to-date information on how this has progressed, including as soon as last city council meeting where the council approved the urban corridor zoning district. So as a reminder, we've got this information available online as well as my contact information if anybody has questions.
 But back to what our community helped us to do. So when staff was looking at this and what would we make a recommendation to the planning commission on and ultimately ask them to consider was three different options to approach the zoning because if you're going to rezone, what are you going to rezone to? And with 33 different zoning districts in our code, we had a lot of options.
 And so we could use the zoning proposed with the 71B corridor plan, which is urban thoroughfare, really. We could use a more restrictive zoning, which was proposed during the public engagement process. What we heard was, could you use downtown general, DG, or main street center, MSC?
 to move us closer to pedestrian-oriented, dense urban development that deprioritizes cars. And that would begin to implement the tier center concept. You could have kind of these nodes and corridors that would act in kind of a coordinated way to get housing incorporated in with commercial uses.
 Or, a third option, and the one that kind of elevated to the top, was use the survey results to form a new zoning district, which we ultimately called Urban Corridor, that responded to community input. And we were evaluating those options, the option of using Urban Thoroughfare and the option of using a more restrictive zoning district left a gap that we filled with that Urban Corridor zoning.
 So what does urban corridor look like? Our zoning districts are generally comprised of two pieces. What uses are allowed and what does a building look like? What is the area in which you're allowed to build? And so for uses, you would be allowed by right to do cultural and recreational facilities, government facilities, public spaces.
 Apartments, three and four family dwellings, so triplex, quadplex, restaurants, hotels. You could do shopping. Commercial recreation, small sites. It's like think about indoor recreation like a bowling alley or something similar. You could do home occupations if you have homes. You could also have liquor stores, sidewalk cafes, and small scale productions. So think like a small scale brewery.
 Allowed by conditional use meaning you would have to go to the Planning Commission for a special approval would be single and two-family homes That's because a traditional subdivision development is not a dense enough housing product for this intense corridor Our community seemed to really understand that very well in the survey responses You would also for car dealerships car washes gas stations drive-through restaurants need a conditional use approval from the Planning Commission same for warehouses
 dance halls, sexually oriented businesses, cell towers and animal boarding and training among others. So the standards would look like no density requirement. The council would be very familiar with density limits in a lot of our zoning districts. You may be familiar with a limit of four units per acre, 24 units per acre. There are other ways to
 cap density by the building form how many stories are allowed what is your buildable area and so without kind of setting that constraint we would be proposing that the other standards kind of put the constraints on how much could be built but wanting to get a lot more housing density on this
 corridor where we don't have it. With our area minimums, we've been asked by developers for that level of flexibility, and that would really benefit a lot of the property owners with very small sites that would be challenging to redevelop under the C2 zoning that's currently very prominent. Instead of a front step back that would push a building back, we're asking people to
 pull them up toward the sidewalk. It's a safer way to develop a pedestrian corridor. And so you'd have to have the front of your building within the first 30 feet of your property line. And then no side or rear setbacks unless contiguous to a single family residential district. Then they're 15 feet. You have to have a building along at least 50% of the lot frontage and it would allow up to eight stories in building height.
 And so on these maps which are in your packet, this is the area and the parcels that are proposed to be rezoned both to Urban Corridor and RSF4, but I'd like to talk about Urban Corridor first with a zoomed in view of the project area. I'm going to start at the very top, start at East St. and move to the south through the area that's proposed.
 So again, you see a lot of C2 zoning, but it's not exclusively the zoning district. There's also industrial, urban thoroughfare, residential zoning districts, and residential office. We even see residential agricultural for a parcel that's used as a parking lot, but just never had a reason to be rezoned.
 As we move further down, we're seeing residential neighborhoods on the east and west. So one is zoned residential single-family 40 units per acre, another residential multifamily 20 units per acre, and then a PZD or planned zoning district for residential. And so we're primarily capturing residential.
 C2 zoned parcels as well as abutting parcels that were split zoned. They might have multiple zonings which tend to confuse things, especially when one zoning district is commercial only and one is residential only and it's splitting an intact parcel.
 As we move further to the south and get down to East North Street, you'll see the project area narrowed quite a bit. This area does have more encumbrance from floodplain, and also you've got older residential neighborhoods because it's closer to our downtown core. You'll also see the Veterans Healthcare System of the Ozarks. That's in P1 zoning. The feds do not have to abide by our zoning districts, but we have them zoned nonetheless in a zoning district that's appropriate for their use.
 I'm going to skip downtown because it's not proposed in this rezoning, and I'll start again at 15th Street. And so in the south section of the project along South School Avenue, you'll see a lot of industrial zoning as well as the C2 commercial zoning. That industrial zoning, a lot of it is either on...
 industrial sites that have been there for several decades or the university's research and technology park. They also don't have to abide by our zoning, but the uses that they have are uses that are consistent and compatible with the zoning district that we're proposing. And so it's really no penalty for zoning them since they don't have to follow it, but there's a lot of future potential if they should ever release that land to private ownership.
 And then as I get down to the very end on West Skelton, you'll see a lot of residential area that's proposed to be completely out of the zoning district and then also some large industrial sites. Those are not proposed to be included because of the immense capital investment in those sites.
 in the low to zero likelihood that they would convert to anything else in both the near and the midterm. So it would take a lot for those sites to change their use and they're very actively used as industrial sites now. Rezoning those would make it more difficult and very complicated unnecessarily for those sites to continue their industrial uses or expand those uses.
 One of the biggest questions we've gotten is what happens to my business? A lot of people were very concerned that a rezoning to include housing might push them out and the answer is, or the technical answer is our code provides for nonconformities very generously but the less technical answer is carry on. A rezoning does not require you to remove a business, it does not require you to terminate or relocate your business.
 It does mean that potentially you would not be able to expand if your business is not in the list of things that are permitted. And it may mean that you would need a conditional use if you were going to expand what you're already doing. We also have nonconforming provisions for structures. And so our code is kind of generous in that, again, keep the building that you have. If you want to expand or redevelop in the future, let us know so that we can kind of help with what that would look like.
 Conditional uses are something that was a balancing tool for us to try to bridge that gap that I talked about. So for a conditional use, what's required? The Planning Commission would look at it and they would have to determine that the granting of the conditional use would not adversely affect the public interest and that it would comply with the specific rules
 governing that individual conditional use, they look at 10 different things when they consider a conditional use permit and want to find compatibility or compliance with these several things. And at the very end that includes general compatibility with the goals and intent of the city's adopted land use transportation and other strategic plans. So when we looked at CEPs over the last two years, the Planning Commission has considered
 310 CUP applications since January 1st, 2023. They have been busy. 86% of those were approved, 14% were denied, and 38 out of the 44 that were denied were for short-term rentals type two. 73% of the CUP applications were for short-term rentals, and with the cap, that number has reduced greatly. Three of those were for drive-through restaurants, all were approved, and two were for car washes, also all approved.
 And so I'd like to talk a little bit about the proposed rezoning to RSF4. This was from staff's point of view a cleanup of parcels that were split zoned. So for instance these three parcels that are along East Sycamore Street and North Walnut Street, the back section or the west section of those parcels was zoned C2 while the east
 And the primary part was zoned RSF4. That creates a lot of confusion when one parcel is split by you can only do commercial or you could only do residential. So we were proposing to kind of make that consistent and consistent with the neighborhood zoning to the east. And then we have three additional parcels, one on East Poplar that was split zoned RSF4 and RO residential office.
 The property owner was agreeable to that being entirely RSF 4 because that's how they intend to use the property moving forward and then we have two parcels as well between Ash Street and Marks Mill We were not able to find exactly when that RO zoning happened, but it's been there for a very long time It was on the 1970 map and so staff is proposing to rezone that to RSF 4 to make it consistent again with both the neighborhood and the primary zoning of the property and
 So one of the questions that we got at agenda session was a better explanation or a detailed example of The relationship between an eight-story building and a neighborhood and that's a very good question so when we looked at the the rezoning area we looked at adjacent neighborhoods that presented a variety of setbacks
 or backyard depths, if you will. So how far is the house from the backyard fence that might be abutting a commercial property? And a lot of these are already abutting C2 zoning. So we have a neighborhood that's just east, or sorry, west of Drake Street, where the buildings are typically
 20 to 30 feet from the rear property line. We also have the neighborhood that's just to the west of Fiesta Square where buildings are typically 40 to 60 feet from the rear property line. And then we have buildings around Harold Street that are just east of that commercial development and the C2 zoning that are anywhere from 55 to 70 feet from the rear property line or even 90 feet from the rear property line. So a lot of different conditions where residential properties are abutting commercial properties.
 one of the reasons that staff is comfortable proposing an eight-story building height limit and one of the reasons that the planning commission decided to forward that to you all without changes was we were looking further down the development review process to see what all would be required and our zoning code is just a framework in which a lot of other requirements exist including our fire code
 So I'm taking this from the fire marshals website which has been recently updated with some very helpful information. And so one of the things that you have to do when you have a tall building is give fire trucks access to put out fires. Super important. And what that generally looks like is a fire lane around the building. Those fire lane widths vary. They can be at a minimum 20 feet but aerial apparatus access, meaning the big ladder that has to swing out, that is a minimum of 26 feet.
 And so by the time you're starting to put your fire separation requirements or your fire lane requirements into a site, and this is a very rudimentary sketch, so I'm not bragging about my artistic ability, but it begins to show the proportional relationship between houses with about a 50-foot backyard depth.
 and an eight story building, which is about more or less 10 feet per floor, I know that can vary but let's say 80 feet, your building is probably going to start almost 50 feet away from the property line and that's if you're not putting your parking at the rear of the building.
 By moving buildings up near the street and not putting the parking lots at the front of the buildings, we're essentially forcing parking lots to the side and rear properties, which begins to create that effective setback through standards that are in other places under development requirements but not in the zoning code.
 So for public comment, after I sent out about 2,000 letters, we received 10 comments in favor and one comment opposed. And I want to make sure I'm correctly characterizing that. It wasn't opposed to the rezoning overall, but concerns about abutting residential single-family neighborhoods.
 and then we had three requests to be included in the urban corridor rezoning for properties that were not part of the public notification in the project area and then three requests to be excluded. I do want to acknowledge that I'm probably moving up on my 20 minute time limit but I do have detailed slides about those requests for inclusion and exclusion if the council would like to hear those.
 But I'll go ahead and pause here. Just want to give a brief update as I do. We are 6,500 people over our projected population for 2023. And that's as of our 2023 American Community Survey estimates being released last month. And so we have more people in Fayetteville than expected. And we have a still continuing great housing need in Fayetteville. And I look forward to being able to bring an update on that to you all, hopefully in the next three months or so. Thank you.
 Okay, let's keep going. All right. I would like to see the slides that you have if everybody else would like. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I would probably need about five more minutes to show all of those. Okay.
 Okay, let's move it. Go ahead. Thank you all very much. And so the first request to be included in the urban corridor rezoning are for parcels that I just referenced a little bit ago. Staff had been proposing for these to be rezoned entirely to RSF4 to be with the majority kind of zoning of the parcels. But the owner came back after public notification went out and said we would really like to be included in the urban corridor zoning district.
 So the one, two, three, four, five, six, seven parcels I have here identified along East Sycamore Street and North Walnut Avenue. The owner would like to be included. We did not complete public notice for some of these parcels. And so we had not completed that when this went to the Planning Commission. And the Planning Commission decided not to take up these additional requests. And so...
 I want to just acknowledge that staff has not done public notice for the majority of what I'm about to present to you. And so when you see it in front of you, this was not in the map that is in your packet.
 And so the second request we have to be included in the urban corridor rezoning is for a parcel zoned RSF4 along West 24th Street. This is directly abutting the area that is proposed to be rezoned urban corridor. So it's just one parcel outside of that area. The property owner was very interested in being included and thought it was a great zoning district and wanted to make that request.
 And then finally for inclusions, this is the parcel at 8 and 10 West Township. It's currently zoned I-1 or industrially zoned. This is in an area that in its beginnings was more of an industrial use but has since converted to there are a lot of retail shops.
 So retail and industrial don't necessarily combine in our zoning code very successfully and They thought it would be one great to be included in urban corridor But two they thought that being in a zoning district like that would give them a lot easier time getting business licenses for Retail oriented uses that they currently have in their building and they were excited about the proposed zoning This is one parcel outside of the zoning district There's an industrial zone property between them and the project area that we have shown on the map. So
 So I'd also like to present a request to be excluded from the rezoning and the properties I'm about to show. The primary reason that I understand the request to be excluded is because the owners were interested in retaining drive-thru restaurants by right and were concerned about the urban corridor zoning requiring those to be conditional use.
 And so the first is here at the intersection of North College Avenue and North Drake Street. This is a little bit smaller parcel that's got kind of minimal frontage, but the owner wanted to make that request to be excluded from the proposed rezoning. They did want to retain the C2 zoning district for their property.
 The second request is for a property that's along North College Avenue, just north of East Longview Street. Y'all would be more familiar with it as the old Lewis Ford site, where there was recently a demolition of the Lewis Ford dealership building. And so this is a very large parcel that has two zoning districts on it. The front, or the North College Avenue-facing portion, is C2, and then the rear is UT. They would like to request to retain the C2 zoning just for that portion. They were okay with the...
 urban thoroughfare portion being rezoned to urban corridor. So it's not the parcel in its entirety, it's just the area that I have highlighted. And that was added as a letter to your packet, so that should be item number eight in this.
 Then finally the last request for exclusion from the rezoning is multiple parcels. There's about 19 included So I'm going to do them in groups. The first two parcels are in the Colt Square area They're currently zoned C2 and the owner would like those to retain the C2 zoning and be excluded from the rezoning to urban corridor then
 Then the same owner also owns the Fiesta Square property and across College Avenue, I refer to it as the Hobby Lobby Shopping Center. I don't think that's its official name, but Hobby Lobby and Office Depot are there. And then there is a TJ's Restaurant Shop as well that you see in the parcel that's on the southeast corner. You do have RA zoning in there, but the property owner was requesting the C2 zoning be retained.
 And so something that's a little bit different about this property that I do want to highlight for the council is This is the only property out of what's being proposed that has a major transportation improvement I'd like to give her five more minutes. I can do it in one. I'll give you five, okay
 That's very generous. Knowing me, I might need it. So this is the Rolling Hills Plan View Applebee extension with the roundabout. And so that's what's distinctly different from this set of properties is that there is a planned street improvement project that would directly impact these parcels. And so to give a little bit different view of it and a little bit closer up...
 If this project were to be final, then you would have some separation of parcels there that you don't currently have. Even though I think a lot of people commonly use that as a driveway, you would still have an increase in traffic in this area. And so that does conclude my presentation slides. I know I've delivered a lot of information to the council. I very much appreciate your time this evening.
 Please let me know what questions I can answer or if I can go back to slides. And then I appreciate the fire marshal being here. If there are any detailed questions about the fire apparatus access requirements, those are probably better directed to Mr. Ashley. Thank you. What questions do we have? Teresa, I think that's all. Thank you, Mayor. Britton, can you go back to where the RSF-4 abuts the proposed urban corridor? And the one that I'm kind of,
 Which part? Where you were kind of talking about the fire apparatus and the driveway that was required for fire code. So are there any places within the whole area, because this is a huge area, of course, that you found where there actually is less depth, less separation between...
 I mean, I saw some of those, but I think there are other areas where RSF4 might abut the proposed urban corridor. There are a lot of places where the RSF4 zoning district does abut the proposed urban corridor, but the area with the shallowest backyards, if you will, or the backyards with the lower
 the least dimension were here just west of Drake Street where buildings are about 20 to 30 feet from the property line. Typically on the east side there was more depth for backyards. Some of those are very large lots that were developed in the 1960s, 70s and 80s when land was a lot less expensive than it was now. But this is kind of the narrowest set of backyards that I've been able to identify looking at the map.
 Were there any other one-offs? I mean, you know, this is kind of a neighborhood, but were there any other specific areas where you saw that there was the, where these two came together very closely? I mean, I'm thinking about one over on Elm Street is the one I'm kind of thinking about.
 And it may not be highlighted in your presentation. I don't know that I have Elm Street highlighted, but we could certainly pull up a map if that's helpful. I don't know that I have it on a slide. Okay. We can talk about it later. Okay, certainly. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Paul. Yeah. So, Britton, these requests for inclusion or exclusion, would those be things that we would have to amend with the current map that's being brought forward? Yeah.
 How does that work, or are we obligated to include or exclude? So what I brought forward is staff's recommendation, oops, and the Planning Commission's recommendation. My understanding is that the Council has latitude still with what's being proposed, including amending the map. I think my ask would be if the Council did want to look at map amendments,
 We can do that on paper, and I think it might be helpful for staff to make those amendments and bring them back to the council on paper in your packet for consideration, just for clarity's sake. So, like right now, let's take the Rolling Hills, the Fiesta Square. That is in the new, that's in the new rezoning, the urban corridor. And if we go ahead and just pass it as is, that will be rezoned.
 unless we decide to exclude it. Is that correct? Yes. So what staff has proposed a boundary including parcels, but if the council wanted to change that boundary Please let me know. Okay, thank you.
 thank you mayor uh britain great job on your presentation great job on what you've done so far i know it's been monumental what you're trying to do so you and your staff done a great job but uh two questions you you say you've got some requests for exclusions does the uh general public really know that that that is out there for for the uh for their they could request their property be excluded
 Or how did the word get out to the property owners? I don't know that word got out or that it was commonly understood so much as, so we sent letters out to property owners giving them a heads up at the start of August. Hey, if you haven't heard about this yet, here's what the city is looking at doing.
 And so we really began to receive a lot more engagement from owners, property owned business owners in the community after public notice went out about three weeks later. And so after the official letter went out in the mail, we started, we probably got 33 calls from owners
 And some of those calls were, I just don't understand what's going on. Tell me what's going on. And they were satisfied with the explanation of here's what the city is proposing. Out of those conversations, three of the owners said, I don't want to be included. How do I communicate that? And so my request was, can you put that in writing to me so that I can make sure that's part of what's being presented and that.
 it's very clear that you have said you don't care to be included in this. I think that needs to be represented, but it wasn't so much as let us know what option because staff's recommendation is based on 11 months of work to say here's what we think our best possible work is for you all, but people should be able to make, so it was like a little bit of public comment, but public comment from owners that were specifically affected. So I wanted to make sure that was really clear.
 when I presented the information. So when I presented it to the Planning Commission, we did that ahead of public comment, and some of the public comment at that meeting was, we hope that the Planning Commission doesn't exclude those. We think it should be included, those properties should be rezoned. But given that we had about a dozen commenters and only six comments in favor, I believe, at that meeting, I would not characterize that at all as the community weighing in on it or people being more generally aware.
 Okay. And the second question is, have we taken into consideration, I can think of one possibility, whereby we've got one type of business on college, and we're not, it's basically excluded in the new zoning. So are we not giving that business, in essence, a monopoly by saying no other competition can come in around? I think.
 Say, for example, I think storage units that's that's not even a conditional use permit. I understand. I don't want necessary storage units on there, but are we not giving, um, the existing storage facility basically a monopoly, but not allowing future development along that line?
 Think you could look at it that way and I would say that sometimes when the city takes action that is what happens so You effectively have a four hundred and seventy five You know STR monopoly, right? You have people who are allowed to participate in the process and people are excluded because there's a limit And so I don't think that that is exclusive to this particular Rezoning so much as I do think that that's what happens as a city evolves its policies particularly in regard to zoning so
 Sir, is there a reason that we excluded them from even a conditional use permit whereby we gave, I believe, car dealerships or car related as conditional use permits?
 Yes, and it had to do with the number of businesses that provide storage versus the number of businesses who are auto dealerships. We have a substantially higher number of auto dealerships along this corridor, so the number of businesses that could be impacted by that. And so when staff was trying to balance all of these things,
 The community telling us we want fewer auto-oriented uses. We don't want to see more car washes. We don't want to see more gas stations. We don't want to see more drive-through restaurants. We want a walkable neighborhood. We want a place where we can live and enjoy it.
 That was what we were trying to balance with what is really typical of highway corridor development. This is all really natural and this is like part of the evolution of Fayetteville. And so trying to balance how businesses would be impacted, how sites were going to be impacted. So the number of car dealerships
 and how our non-conforming portions of our code would allow them flexibility to continue operating versus what are we trying to move forward. And ultimately, I think it really came down to we have a lot of existing car dealerships
 So can we move that into a conditional use so that it's trying to balance just the sheer number we have by comparison versus Storage units which we didn't have very many of on either section And so I wouldn't characterize this, you know We'll just create a monopoly so much as when we were evaluating public comment You know all these different things that seemed to be the best way to try to balance multiple interests and you know if if
 Mini storage is what we need. And I've heard a really good argument that if you're going to have people living in apartments, why wouldn't you want storage? But the consistent feedback that we've heard in planning is we don't want to see more storage units. We want a place for people to live, and we want people to live in neighborhoods. And I haven't heard a strong association with more storage with that type of environment that the community is looking at us to try to build. Anything else? OK.
 Thank you. All right. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. No participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber? Who do you have on Zoom? Scott Hill. Okay. Go ahead.
 Can you hear me? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Oh, okay. Sorry. Scott Adios, this is Wayne Stout, Street 4-2. I live in the area that Shreve referenced earlier. Looking to see a little more detail on our area in particular. Just a little background as far as the project goes.
 I've supported it generally from the start when from its inception to some of the surveys I participated in that and definitely support more density and more mix of uses on College Avenue and 71B in general. When we received the mailer in my neighborhood, I was a little surprised because it showed density.
 It showed neighbors of mine having the zoning proposed for probably my neighbors have designed proposed for directly behind their houses directly to the east of their houses and directly across the street from their houses. And we're a single family neighborhood, mixed income. A lot of people have been here long term.
 Those properties that are proposed for the rezoning around Elm Street and Green Acres Road currently are zoned RO, residential office, and they are kind of the definition of residential office. If you drive down there, you'll see a lot of those used to be residences. They were converted to office over time, most of them probably in the 70s and 80s.
 And, you know, I did the math and pulled up Google Maps and measured. My house is about 1,000 feet from the edge of College Avenue, but the proposed zoning would allow eight stories right across the fence from my backyard. So we're in the general area of College Avenue, but we're definitely not adjacent to College Avenue. And I think RO to what essentially resembles urban therapist zoning is a big jump.
 I don't know that that condition exists in many other places along the corridor. I may be mistaken. We're also flat. We're not uphill from College Avenue, so these uses would be right in our neighborhood. In general, I support more density. You know, there was a project that I actually spoke in favor of last week along Nelson Hackett that was four stories up the street that stepped down to two when it came down to being across the street from single-family homes.
 And, you know, I would support that in my neighborhood. But with a wide variety of uses and the fact that some of them are literally surrounding my neighbor's single-family homes, I think we need to take a closer look at our general area and maybe propose something a little bit less intense because that's a jump from probably the least intense commercial use district up to one of the most intensive commercial use districts. That's it.
 all right thank you who else no one else on zoom mayor okay i'm gonna bring it back to the council then what's the wishes of the uh council on it's an ordinance it's on the first reading so what discussion would you like to have what action would you like to take well um i i've been waiting for this for a long time and i'd be ready to run it through all three readings tonight but i know that's not i'm not expecting that to happen
 I know there's concerns obviously we just heard one I think I recommend everybody that has a fear of height go drive by some of our seven-story buildings I swear they're not as scary as you think we got a couple decisions to make as far as how we grow as a city we really only got two directions we go up or we go out
 Along the 71B corridor we have our infrastructure already in place. If we build out, we've seen the cost projections of what happens when you build out. And if we decide to build out, we're going to be nothing but RS4 from Oklahoma to Huntsville.
 And I just don't think it's feasible as we grow, as Northwest Arkansas grows, as we become a metro area. We do have to have some height. And in that corridor, we can take pressure off our neighborhoods. Our neighborhoods have so much infill pressure right now. They're bursting at the seams, and we keep putting more and more and more in our existing neighborhoods and taking out more and more trees. I think this is a win-win for Fayetteville.
 I think this can absorb, help us eliminate our housing deficit, help us grow into the city we're becoming, whether we like it or not. This will help us grow into that city and leave most of our neighborhoods alone. Sure, will some people be affected along that corridor? Yeah, they will. But also their property values are probably going to skyrocket and they can buy a forest somewhere. There is going to be some give and take.
 uh but i i really do think that this is the path forward i appreciate all the work that's gone into it uh brenton's been amazing on this uh everybody in planning has been amazing on this um you know i i wish this would have happened 20 years ago i i think we'd be in a much better spot
 But it really does, if we want to compete as a city, I mean we're flat on sales tax this year. Our population is rising but somehow we're flat. We need more opportunities for local businesses and more people to visit those businesses and spend their money. Again, I'm ready to go straight through this but I'm not expecting that, I'm not going to try to force that. And we should do this deliberately but I am in full support.
 and uh it's one of the reasons i ran was for this very thing and i'm happy that i'm going to be able to be a part of it sir okay grace thank you mayor thank you sarah um
 I think this is a really complicated project and I am very supportive of it too, but I think we really need to give it a lot of thought. We need to look at certain areas very carefully, especially around Elm Street, and make sure that this really fits for all of our citizens. Just because you happen to live kind of close to college doesn't mean that you need to be right next door to an eight-story building. I can tell you from personal experience when I lived in Seattle,
 that behind the house that I had was an open lot and it wasn't very big. Well, a couple of years after I bought this great beautiful craftsman, a huge building went in there that was about eight stories tall. And it was right next to my house. I had about, you know, I was in the middle of the city.
 30-foot distance between my glassed-in back door and this huge building. So I know from experience exactly how that feels. So I think we need to be very careful and diligent about this.
 I also think now that we have people that want to be included, property owners that want to be included and some that want to be excluded, that we also need to look at those carefully and individually. I really just, it's going to sort of defeat in some ways the idea of a corridor by having folks that want to be included and some that want to be excluded. We saw kind of, Britton showed the Fiesta Square. That's a complex situation.
 I want us to do our due diligence to think about it, make sure that the public knows what's going on, that they have plenty of notification, even though you guys have done an amazing job of public outreach. But the fact that the Planning Commission has not seen some of these inclusions and exclusions concerns me, that the full process hasn't taken place.
 I really want to leave this on the first reading tonight. I want us to really sit down in the next two weeks and look at those paper maps and really have more information, maybe drive by some of these areas, maybe have tours in some of these areas, so we are sure that we are getting this right.
 This is a huge change. We need it. We definitely need more housing. Absolutely. We need a more walkable corridor, a more walkable city. But we should not do this quickly. We should do it very carefully and thoughtfully. Okay. Sarah. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm similar to Council Member Stafford that I'm probably ready to move forward tonight. In regard to notification and conversation that's happened, I actually think that the city in this regard has done an incredible job of doing a really full loop outreach.
 of doing a really robust community engagement on this process. I really think there was a lot of give and take back from what they were hearing that went back into the community, and that this has been out in the community for a lengthy amount of time. And I think it speaks volumes that there honestly wasn't more feedback because I think that oftentimes when something is on a shortened timeline or might be rushed,
 that surprise that does happen to neighbors, we see it in those meetings that become contentious and everyone shows up and suddenly we're feeling like we're on our back foot. I think that we've been incredibly proactive in this process. I lamented a little bit to Jonathan had to hear from me with the new zone that I said, I'm a little concerned that this is the kitchen sink zone because we're trying to be a lot of things to a lot of people.
 And so I appreciated the thoughtfulness, but I also think that potentially even with the way that we're approaching this area, that we've taken a somewhat conservative approach because we've been mindful of some of those concerns we've been talking about tonight. And my concern is if we...
 Water this down any further that we hurt the impact that has the ability to make that we need now My concern is if we wait its additional days delayed that we have old zoning that's been in place That's incredibly Oppressive to our community and how it develops because it goes against all of the strategic priorities that we spent millions of dollars in concert comprehensive plans that our taxpayers have told us they want implemented and
 And so that's my hesitation at staying still tonight. I think that no plan will be perfect. I think that even if we spend more time, that there are going to be things that we probably...
 you know, say, hey, we would maybe want to do that a little differently. But that's what's nice about this process, is that this is a living, breathing document as well, that we have the ability to bring things forward in the future, to overlay, et cetera. And so, you know, I think that our community has waited a long time. We've had a year between talking about the crunch of what the housing crisis looks like and what that housing stock looks like. And I don't think we should delay any further. Yeah, Mark.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I, too, want to applaud staff. This is a Herculean task, and I can barely say that word. So thank you. And it's been a long process. When cities don't take control of their own land, and let's face it, the city of Fayetteville is essentially the dirt upon which we sit and the people who live here, then outside national forces are
 We'll find a way to place a drugstore, an oil chain shop, a gas station, a car wash, and a bank on every conceivable retail corner within your city because that's what they do and that's what they're good at. And this is a market I would want to be in and I would do the exact same thing. So the only way you cope with that is to, in essence, pre-zone, which is why I applaud staff.
 I'm not particularly excited about excluding any properties from the zoning. And my argument is they're not losing anything. If I have a drive-thru restaurant and I become a legal non-conforming use, the value of my drive-thru just skyrocketed because...
 There will not be additional ones without a conditional use permit process. And so my ownership stake in my business just went up. And it only goes away if I vacate that property and stop the use for six months continuously. I can sell that business. It can be maintained. So I'm not excited about exempting anyone because we're not forcing anyone to change their property. We're
 We're, and I'm now going to admonish us to say we must all remain realistic. Rezoning this doesn't make a single thing happen. It simply provides the opportunity for the type of development we want to see happen. Ground floor retail, business office, mixed use, residential above, it enables that to take place. I mean...
 Is our storage units wonderful or an abomination to the Lord? I leave it to you to decide. I'm not sure which. I just know that they're an inexpensive use that has value, and I would hate to see them in my corridor because that's such a low-level usage. I would prefer it be on the edges of town and civilization. So I'm very much more interested in retail sales tax uses
 office uses that bring employees that then spend money and residential uses because I view this as that once in a generation opportunity for us to create a true commercial residential backbone corridor where we have infrastructure our trees are already gone it's already impervious area and
 In so many ways, it just makes logical sense that we would want to introduce this type of use. And so I commend the people here long before I got here for having the vision to get this process started. And I'm riding on the shoulders of giants that got the ball rolling and got us here to this point. And I don't know who to hug and kiss, but someone deserves that. And I thank you.
 I just don't want it to meet me. I don't want you hugging kissing on me. Thank you mayor. I Agree with most everything that's been said but I come down on the fact that this is a monumental decision for this city And it it warrants more conversation to make sure everybody's on the same page I
 I come down on the side of holding this on the first reading because in the last couple of weeks, I've started getting questions about this. So that tells me that Word's really starting to filter out and creating questions within the community.
 So I don't think we as leaderships should push this through today when we know that there's people out in the community that have questions. So let's err on the side of taking our time and getting this right is my opinion. It's not going to hurt anything.
 you know if we were to push this through tonight it changes nothing and we can change the the code all we want to but until the developers put the money on the table to redevelop the property nothing's going to change okay so I think it we need to take our time and make sure we get this right but I want to conclude my comments by again applauding the staff because
 This is, the work they put into this is just incredible. And they've done a great job. I just want to slow play just a little bit to make sure everybody's on the same page. Paul. Thank you, Mayor. I agree with Scott. I think that this would be helpful to leave on the first reading. And for the reasons already stated, but also in good faith, we put Council Member Turk's item on D3, and I'd like to hear D3 before I make a decision on D2.
 I think there's valid concerns although there weren't very many public comments the concerns about the lack of scaffolding for the zoning is a Concern for me and a challenge that I think we need to spend some more time on Overall I'm in favor of this a higher density zoning area But I do think we need to have a little bit more consideration for the outskirts and the surrounding neighborhoods. Thank you Sure Yes
 I think there's an appetite to leave this on the first reading. I myself have dealt with this for I don't know how many years now because I was on one of the council focus groups, the very first ones, when we first started with a consultant talking about this.
 I feel like I've talked about 71B corridor quite a lot over the years and and just you know so I there's nothing that seems that surprising to me but I do you know I do understand some of my fellow council members you know wanting to wait a little bit although I am personally I'm ready to vote but but if I would be okay with holding it on the first reading and
 I don't need to do any tours because this is a lot of this is in my ward. I see it every day. And I do agree with what Holly said about the item that we have coming after this. So I'll be okay with holding it. But thank you, Mr. Mayor. Okay. Well, I'm sorry. But I will just add one thing. Since you called on it.
 I'll keep it short. I'll keep it short. That's good. I just... That's good. You gave me an opening. Yeah, I did. I did. You know, we're never going to get 100% of the people on board. You're just not. And I agree with what Council Member Whedeker said about, you know, I'm not up for excluding areas. Because you're not going to have to change anything. We're not forcing anybody to do anything.
 But you can't get five people to agree on where to go to dinner, much less rezoning a portion of the city. So I am fine with leaving this on the first reading so people can get more input, so people can get questions answered, and so that we can hear the next item. So I'm ready. I almost forgot what I was going to say.
 Thanks to my counterpart. Britton, as always, thank you for your amazing work. And I don't have a lot to say about this. I just wanted to ask, once we pass this, and I'm sure you've addressed it, but can we go back and make changes? We're not absolutely locked in, right?
 We spent a lot of time talking with the Planning Commission about what comes next. And so one of the areas of focus for the Planning Commission and also for staff was another area of feedback that we got that I haven't addressed with the council yet, which is our community wants to see better outcomes from development.
 And typically that's not going to be in the zoning districts themselves, but that's going to be in our development standards. And so our planning commission intends and staff intends to continue to work at this. One, to get some of those refinements in where we find refinements needed. But two, to also look not only at our zoning standards, but at our development standards so that,
 We're getting as close as we can to the outcomes that people are asking for because I think the council hears and certainly our planning commission hears unmet expectations that people would like to see addressed, but unfortunately our zoning districts are
 This is only a page and a half that we're talking about, which surprises a lot of people. And so I think the bulk of the work is really in other places in our code that the Planning Commission certainly has a focus on. And we're intending to start that as soon as this month's long-range planning meeting, which is where they have a lot of those discussions before they go to a public hearing on it. Okay. And how long did previous councils...
 How long have we been working on this? Would that be a question for Mayor Jordan? I'm looking at you, Mayor Jordan. I go back and forth trying to get 71B. Kyle Smith's sitting in the back of the room. He remembers that very well. So is this a question for Mayor Jordan or Council Member Bunch? I think 71B.
 At least. At least. I want to be generous there without being too over, but at least seven. Yeah. We were driving down Little Rock to get the stack. I'm sorry. I don't even want to be there. Well, I mean, it's. That makes. Yeah. Yeah. And we started with a, we started with a, you know, meeting with groups of people. We, gosh, I think we had a, didn't.
 I think Devin was at this meeting too, but we had a meeting. Devin was in high school probably. Probably. Devin was in diapers then probably. Well, not quite. But I mean, it just seems that long. I think we had a meeting with people that weren't even from our community about 71B corridor. We did. You know, and...
 what other communities wanted their highways to be like. And then we had to take it back from the state. And do the maintenance. That took forever to do. Forever. So we finally got control of the street. So it's been a long, long time. So my next question would be, I feel like it's been a while, and so I do understand...
 the getting additional input and of course making sure that we do it right but I think this has been a process and I feel like what do we know what we want to achieve out of this because I feel like they've answered those questions and I would like to vote tonight but I understand if we can't but seems like we've been working on this for quite a while and eight years probably ten I don't know but it's been a while and I think that
 How much more are we hoping to, I guess, what else are we looking to get or to know or to learn from this process? And that's my question. How much longer will it take? Mr. Mayor, I'd like to answer DeAndre Jones' initial question. Can you change this rezoning anytime you want to in the future? And the answer is probably not. It depends on what you want to do with it. But let's say that...
 You have it out there. You've got some developers build eight-story buildings. Neighborhoods don't like it. They complain. Six would be okay, six stories, but not eight. So the city council wants to change it to six stories. Well, that's a 25-dimension lessening of the value of that property going from eight to six. The Private Property Protection Act that was passed by the state says if you lower somebody's value of their property by more than 20%, you buy it.
 You pay that 20%. And so this is the most massive rezoning that I've seen in at least 15 years, if not longer than that. Almost 600 acres right through the heart of Fayetteville. And so I think it really does need to have a lot of city council input and attention and concern there.
 For not just staff staff's done a great job in presenting that I think that that's correct and working very hard on it But when other massive rezoning were done by the City Council's like the downtown master plan There were many meetings of the City Council to to consider all this With people going back and forth on where they should have this what kind of what should this zoning actually include and I?
 This is the first meeting that's come to the city council. Now, I know that this has been in people's mind, what can we do with the Highway 71 corridor? But now we're down to brass tacks, and I think it really makes a lot of sense in a decision that's this important and also a decision that you probably can't take back.
 And so I think you need to be very careful on how you make that, and you should, I think it's worthy of a lot of concern and discussion by the city council before you pass it. Okay, Keith, you've answered my question. That makes so much sense. I appreciate that because that weighs heavily as it relates to me making a decision because those details do matter. Thank you. Thank you.
 I don't think two weeks makes much difference one way or the other. We've waited about ten years probably on this project. But, you know, there's more of a history to this thing than just what we've done in the last year or two.
 There was public input sessions going all up and down College Avenue. I was in a lot of those things. I don't know how many there was. People decided, drawing on the maps and all this kind of stuff. Britton comes along, she puts this thing together. We didn't even have that street. We had to go back to the state time and time again. Finally, I promised them if you give it to us, we'll maintain it.
 be happy. Anyway, so we got possession of that thing. But you know, a couple weeks not gonna make a whole lot of difference one way or the other to me, but I'm going to pull some of the history from where we started and it was it was a long drawn out thing just trying to get the state to give us that road. Do you remember that?
 And so, anyway, Britton, you've done a great job. Absolutely. And we'll get this done. Okay. So, you want to hold it?
 Is that what you want? Yes, Mike. Thank you, sir. I just wanted to make one more quick comment, and that was for the people that did negotiate taking College Avenue back from the state as a city-owned street versus being a state highway, I had original concerns because of the financial liability of maintaining that street, and I want to commend whoever was involved in the negotiation because the state is turning that over to us
 either new condition or giving the city a credit to restore it to new condition and that's a 25-year Financial investment to have that street be in new condition or a credit for it And so that's as big a financial thing as anything else will decide Regarding the rezoning to tell you the truth. So whoever was involved I want to come in for that. That's a big deal. Thank you, sir. I
 And, you know, another thing, we've got the Safer Grant. It was a $25 million grant, and there was only one other city that got a larger amount in the United States, and that was New York City. And that's how we're building the streetscape along. Well, it's helping to build the streetscape, and the streetscape's expensive plus, but we're building the alternative transportation. We're doing the tree plantings again. We're restoring a lot of the stuff that has been washed away. I believe...
 that the development community is going to build along there. Bob, I agree with what you're saying, Sarah. They're going to build along there because we have got to average a thousand units a year to keep up. Remember the report that Britain gave? We've got to average a thousand units a year just to accommodate the amount of population that's coming into this city.
 Of course, thousands of those a year, university students. I mean, that's another discussion another day. But eventually, Jonathan, what's a C2 on the height? I mean, what's the maximum height? Six stories? Six stories, Mayor. Six stories. Okay. So this is two more stories. That's correct. Thank you. So, you know...
 Council, I'm just going to say this is a hard vote, but we're going to have to do this eventually. It's just going to have to be done. We just, I just don't want us to, I just, you know, the sprawl concerns me. It really does. And, you know, and I'm not saying you've got to vote on it tonight, but I just, and I want it done right. You know, there's an old carpenter adage that I always say, if you need to build it, build it.
 Once and build it right and you build it forever and I know that's what we need to do here now I'm not Busted leaving it But I do see This is a chance to actually it Begin to do those living units and flood the market in a place where we've already destroyed the urban forest but and the utilities are already there and
 And I'm not trying to make a plea that you vote on it tonight. I understand that. But we're going to have to do this. Teresa, I believe you. I was actually going to say that, Mr. Mayor George. I really appreciate your perspective and your history and your passion for this because everything that you've said makes sense in meeting the demands of our citizens. So I'm looking forward to voting on this for the sake of our community sooner rather than later.
 But again, two weeks is not going to be a deal breaker for me. Thank you, Mayor. I think what's happened is that we generally agree that this is a really good idea, that we need it. We finally have all the details. Staff has done a brilliant job.
 And so now is the time to really buckle down and look at the fine print, look at the details of certain areas, and see if we need to make any adjustments or not. We need to make this okay with our existing residents. I think everybody has the vision of more density, of more housing in that area, more mixed use.
 you're right we have destroyed the urban forest it's not coming back down there unless we replant it and so I think just taking a little bit of time will make this vote very easy and not a difficult one so that is my plea at least until next to for two weeks and we've got two weeks after that everybody's hair's on fire or something
 Bob and I will probably be OK. Me too, you know. And Scott. And Scott. But, you know. Sarah, was it you or Scott? Scott. Scott. I'll just keep this short. Two weeks ago, I was ready to vote on this because I thought it was slam dunk. But as constituents call to start asking questions,
 That's why I think we need to hold it because I think that's our job as city council members to get a full perspective We have to make the right decision for the city. This is the right decision, but let's make sure it's Absolutely crafted the way we think is best and that just takes a little bit of time. We'll get there and
 but I will be supporting we're supporting it as we move along but I think it doesn't need to slow down just long enough for people to take a good look you know I agree you know if we we've waited this long you know we can wait two more weeks or a month or whatever but I would encourage everyone if they have questions or there's certain things that they want to
 to ask of staff that when we come back in two weeks that we have that list together so we know what
 you know, what the concerns are. And if we hear from constituents and that sort of thing, that we just don't come to a meeting and, you know, we kind of have our ducks in a row when we get here so we can start discussing it and, you know, get moving on it. Because I'm, you know, I think we're all really ready. I think we all know this is the best option, but we just maybe need to finesse it and make sure that everybody's on board with it a little bit more. That's all. Thanks. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 I've waited. My beard was about the same color as Stacy's one. But I started on this journey. I used to have a nice flowing red one, but it's changed a little. But we'll just leave it here. All right? OK. Now, Teresa, you have a little item for us now. Let me turn back to my doodad here. All right.
 An ordinance to amend 161.36 urban corridor by enacting a new H protection for single family zone districts to provide the same protections for adjoining single family residential districts currently required for urban thoroughfare in all multifamily districts. No, I need to read the ordinance. Oh, yes, yes, yes. Sorry, sorry.
 Whereas to protect single-family residents adjoining multifamily, commercial, industrial, institutional, and office districts, the City Council enacted additional setbacks for portions of buildings taller than two stories facing such residences.
 And whereas these single-family homes protective regulations were omitted from the new urban corridor zoning district, which would now authorize an eight-story tall wall for an apartment building or its parking deck to be constructed only 15 feet from a single-family residential lot. And whereas residents along North College Avenue, including Washington-Willow Historic District and Wilson Park neighborhood,
 and along Nelson Hackett Boulevard and South School Avenues deserve the same buffer and protection from eight-story apartment or office buildings that residents adjoining all six of our multifamily districts, urban thoroughfare, residential office, neighborhood commercial, thoroughfare commercial, industrial, and institutional zoning districts now enjoy. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 156.3 urban corridor by enacting subsection H as follows, Quote, H, protections for single family zone districts. If a building exceeds the height of two stories, the portion of the building that exceeds two stories shall have an additional setback from any boundary line of an adjacent single family district.
 The amount of additional setback for the portion of the building over two stories shall be equal to the difference between the total height of that portion of the building and two stories. Thank you all. I had constituents reach out about the concern about, you know, an eight-story building being right next to them without these step backs or setbacks that we have in other zoning districts.
 so I wanted to bring this forward so that we could discuss it have some consideration about this situation that may occur I appreciate Britain sort of pointing out some of these neighborhoods but I think there's additional ones where an RSF for other
 other residential district intersects or is abuts right next to our proposed urban corridor. And I think we need to look at that very carefully. I told you about my personal experience with that.
 I really don't think that my property value went up after that building was there. In fact, I think it probably went down because it was such a huge burden and barrier. I mean, you have shading issues.
 You also have privacy issues. You know, the third story of that building looked right into my, basically right into my back bedroom. So we, so these are things that we really need to consider. This will be the only zoning district that we have, multifamily or high intensity, that does not have that setback requirement.
 so I'd like us to consider it and and I would also like if we hold this or we don't include this tonight I'd like us to have more investigation more graphics and more fine-scale resolution of where these areas intersect with a single family neighborhood and I'm happy to take any questions okay what questions does the council have
 My questions are actually for staff in regard to this amendment. I followed the conversation through long-range planning. I went to the in-person meetings, and I never heard there discussed including this into this current zoning. And so I'm wondering if you could fill us in on maybe the reasoning behind that potentially, why that wasn't included in looking at what we're doing on the corridor.
 We did talk about it at length with Planning Commission because that was one of the options that was available in making a new zoning district. So what's one of the easiest ways to make a new zoning district? You look at what your existing zoning districts do and how they're formatted and say, okay, what are we taking over from that and what are we possibly doing new? So that was part of the consideration, but it may have been like really early on in the process because we started talking with the Planning Commission about this probably last November and then really started to get into detail with them.
 their retreat which was held in June so that that was kind of very early on but a couple of reasons why that ultimately didn't get proposed in the zoning district language one was that staff finds this portion of the code to be vague and difficult to work with it's requiring a building to
 stair step Physically and that's a difficult design constraint for people to figure out. It's not impossible Certainly you can do it and you'll see a lot of stair step buildings and cities but they tend to be associated with an era of design rather than kind of you know
 best practices for code, I'll say. So wanting to kind of acknowledge that that already exists though, but finding it to be kind of cumbersome to administer, it's one of the things that we typically have to explain in detail and sometimes repeatedly to our applicants how they're supposed to meet that requirement, because there tends to be some confusion about well how high up do you go and then how far over?
 So given that and given the kind of fire protection requirements, the fire lane requirements, getting a truck around the building, getting a ladder access to the building, and given what we typically see as site design constraints,
 The Planning Commission and staff ultimately were comfortable enough with the existing requirements to not propose including that we knew that it existed We actually in looking at the downtown general and Main Street Center zoning districts as potential opportunities those include a home protection requirement we looked at that also and if you have those zoning districts and you have that and
 How is that a solution? And ultimately, after quite a bit of debate and discussion, we decided that wasn't how we wanted to move forward with the recommendation to council.
 Thank you, Britton. I appreciate the thorough explanation. And that I didn't realize so far back too, so I had messed with that. It had been discussed in those earlier conversations, so thank you. One of the things I was curious about that history, because as I came onto Council and I was meeting with developers, as I was coming on, I was hearing a lot about housing and improving housing stock a year and a half ago.
 I heard oftentimes the concern about the areas where we wanted to build density about this particular rule and that it was Very hard to maneuver around And so I don't have the level of expertise and in that development I'd really feel like I had could readily address it But I know that it was coming up as a concern and so I guess my hesitation I would just say but this is an amendment is that I
 Knowing that we our ultimate goal is trying to create incredible flexibility in this area My concern would just be that that would be one more hampering You know kind of encumberment that would happen for developers, especially because there's such variability of the types of of
 land that's there, you know, it's different shape configurations. You might be skinny or might have lack of depth. And, you know, we've talked about that we have an overabundance of single family zoning. And so, you know, as we look at the map, we see there's a lot there. And so, you know, definitely that corridor is going to
 abut in many places single family zoning and so I'm just I'm concerned about the additional requirements that it would encumber to those particular areas on the corridor Jonathan in our current residential zoning what is the height limit is it isn't it three stories or it varies by zoning district our typical single-family zoning districts allow building heights of three stories our multifamily ones typically allowed to five
 oh up to five okay um but just the single family residents generally three like 45 feet or something of that we measure by stories not by feet okay um so if if this were to if we were to adopt this if there was a 60 foot or 70 foot difference in the heights between a two-story and what's being proposed
 That would increase the setback to 70 feet? Is that correct? Is that what you're asking for? It would increase the step back above the first two stories. I'm saying if that difference, yeah. If the difference. Not the setback, but the step back of the building. Now, if you go up two stories and then if you want to go up higher than that, then you actually have to start reducing. But you have to step back by the additional height is what's being proposed.
 So you could potentially have a 70, 80 foot setback before they're able to go up. See, I think they said an eight story building would be 80 feet, so that would be after the first 20 feet. Well, if you have a commercial, you might have a 14 foot base story.
 If I may offer what I understand to be the reading of it, I hope Council Member Kirk will correct me if I have it wrong. It doesn't propose like our downtown home protection requirement where there's just a raw setback before you can even go in. I understand. So you're afforded that two stories and any additional...
 height above that has to be set up that same amount of height and to your first question about the building height of the adjoining single-family home As it's written that doesn't propose to include that as a Proportional reference so if there's a three-story single-family house That doesn't necessarily change what the commercial or mixed-use development could be next to it I guess what I'm getting at is it's saying that a
 If a building exceeds the height of two stories, the portion of the building that exceeds the two stories shall have an additional setback from any boundary line of an adjacent single family district. The amount of the setback for the portion of the building over two stories shall be equal to the difference between the total height of the building and that two stories. So you could potentially have, you know, even though they're able to build up two stories, but that setback to go taller than that.
 say they're building an 80 foot 90 foot building you're looking at a 70 foot 70 feet before they're able to build up is that is that that seems to be what i'm reading yes correct that's that's how yeah it just seems like a giant overreach and a weakening of what we're trying to do uh and and i also kind of feel like we're a solution in search of a problem um a little bit as well but thank you
 Well, we did something like this once before. I don't know if anybody remembers Nina Sharkey's. Sharkey. I remember that. Remember that? And we went up so high, then we stepped it back, went up so high, stepped it back. But the folks that was doing development said that they could not, they could, it wasn't
 What's the term I'm looking for? Economical? Yes, thank you, Bob. Yeah, the money of extra design and construction costs could literally kill a project. And it did. Yeah. They didn't build it. So I don't know. We had that on the book somewhere. I can't remember. That's one of those long-past council meetings. Mike. Thank you. I think...
 I think that our intent is very good, and that is to protect single-family dwellings that, in essence, were there first, and daylight and sunlight does matter. And so I think that that's an honorable intent, and that we should be mindful of that. I think contextually, what we might be missing is...
 We're envisioning a traditional lot with a building 15 feet from the property line as opposed to the context of the building being moved forward with the fire lane being added. And so if what we're trying to accomplish is actually an appropriate degree of separation between a single family home and a structure taller than two stories,
 we may find that we've already accomplished that in 99% of our examples. And I'm not saying that that's accomplished, I'm just saying we may find it is. And so it might behoove us to investigate this a little bit further to see where we wouldn't be protecting that homeowner and to only revise
 what we're proposing, the smallest portion necessary to reasonably accommodate and protect. Because I'd hate for us...
 to proceed down this path and then realize, oh my gosh, we have twice as much setback as we were envisioning we would be requiring. And so I think that this one will take examples and probably regrettably homework for staff. I hate to say that to you, but we may need three or four examples where we literally look at pretended developments to see what kind of separation we are designing
 just to help us make the most intelligent decision we can. Because it is a, you know, I know that we had this on the middle portion of College Avenue with old historic properties,
 you know, that are backing up to commercial properties on College Avenue. And those individuals were worried about five buildings stories of height. And so it is a worthwhile exercise for us to go through. And so I want to thank you, Teresa. I believe that we can get there. I just don't want to see us get there with overkill needlessly. And
 if staff's opinion is that our current code is ambiguous, it might behoove us to consider revising the existing code at the same time we're doing this all in one fell swoop. Thank you. DAVID BURRAGE, Can we take any public comment on this?
 Okay, Scott. Yes, Mayor. I was just going to, after a public comment, I was going to you know, maybe think along the lines of what we did the last time. Maybe we could leave this on the first reading and use this as a tool to, as we're going through the first one, try to work through some scenarios for this one too so that we can make sure that everything is, we've got no areas that might be negatively affected.
 everybody good all right let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present change will be allowed to speak first of those participating by then we'll speak after that who okay
 Good evening City Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. Mayor, earlier you spent quite a bit of energy outlining the work and effort and taxpayer money and grants that have gone into projects on 71B to make it this thing that we've crafted a vision for since May of 2018, March of 2018 I think was the first time we talked about that Councilmember Jones.
 Yeah, so vibrant, safe, walkable, productive economic engine, that's all the things we say College Avenue can be. And this amendment, as it's proposed, would undercut that goal. It would result in more development that continues to consume precious natural areas instead of taking advantage of the area we've already got developed and developing it in more efficient ways.
 Many places in the proposed rezoning are only one parcel deep and they're sometimes less than 250 feet deep in that parcel before they reach an RSF rezoning. So the additional setback requirements here would real quickly eat up the usable space that the UC zone is designed to create up in the air by requiring those extra step backs.
 Staff told you how they reviewed a lot of feedback from the community and they looked at the existing zones and decided they didn't fit, so they went and they made a new one. This is the one they made and it was carefully crafted to the public comment and they chose to leave out this provision that's in all the others because presumably that's one of the reasons they didn't pick the other existing zones for this.
 So I want to remind you why, one of the reasons why the UC needed the 8th story limit in the first place. It's a matter of proportions. If we want some first floor commercial, that takes up some space. If we want residential above that, that takes up some space. Those residences are required to provide parking, that takes up space, and that takes up a lot of space. And so now you've got an issue where you can't actually fit in all the needs in the artificially set limit that we've created.
 So I will propose that if you feel like the setbacks are so essential that you have to pursue this ordinance, I suggest compromise a trade-off. Setbacks on one hand could be paired with relieving the parking mandate in the UC zone on the other, and then maybe we wouldn't need as much of the height to meet the requirements. It could still fit into residential goals.
 and this is already a plan to be walkable. It's an area that's going to have massive public investment, and it's an area where there are already services available. So the parking needs are less mandatory than our lifestyle would be in other parts of town. So if you are going to pursue this, that would be my suggested compromise amendment on the amendment, if you will. But otherwise, I hope you will deny the amendment and approve the resounding. Thank you.
 Who else? I have Scott Hill. Okay, go ahead. Hey, it's me again. Scott Hill, 627 Elm Street. I have a quick question. Maybe someone can answer for me. When was the urban corridor zone created? Well, it was passed at the last meeting, if I'm not mistaken. So two weeks ago. You mean the... When was the... What was passed? When was that first proposed as a complete package? Okay.
 Britton, that's probably for you. Could you ask the question again, Mr. Hill? Just when was the urban corridor zoning as it was passed? When was that first proposed? I think we started talking about it at the July long-range planning meeting with the planning commission with probably that level of definition that you could call it talking about the urban corridor district. Okay.
 That's pretty helpful. Like I said, usually I'm speaking in favor of density, even in my own neighborhood. I'll just say as someone who pays attention to development in the city and is generally in favor and 100% in favor of everything along College Avenue being zoned to this district, when I received the mailer and looked up the zoning category, we received it whatever three weeks ago, looked at the zoning category, I was really shocked to see eight stories proposed for our neighborhood. Yeah.
 And so, you know, my response there would be that the category hasn't been out there that long. You know, I've seen the drawings and the maps and paid attention to the process as much as I could through the years and generally supported it. And still do. I just, I agree with with Teresa that, you know, there's some neighborhoods like ours, none of my neighbors' properties touch College Avenue. We don't abut College Avenue at all. We're at the intersection of Green Anchors Road and Elm Street.
 And none of the properties that are proposed for this H-story rezoning are currently zoned C2. They're RO. So it's a significant change. I'm not trying to derail it, not trying to derail the process. Really supported it along College Avenue. But I think there are  and I don't know that the conditions that we have here exist anywhere else along the corridor. We have a small single-family neighborhood. We don't know about College Avenue anymore.
 But we have a jog of this zoning that's proposed and literally will surround single family homes on three sides, existing single family homes. And, you know, the comment was made earlier that a lot of your property values would go up and you should move out into the forest or whatever. I don't want to do that. You know, my property that I live in, my family's on it for 72 years and we're an established neighborhood. It's a great neighborhood.
 I don't want to see that domino effect happen. And I think there's some areas like ours that don't, but College Avenue, that you guys can take a closer look at. That's it. All right. Thank you. I have no one else. Okay. I'm bringing back to the council. I agree with Scott. I suggest we just let this sit where it is. Tracy, do you agree with that?
 I completely agree with that. This was sort of a starter conversation because we do need to investigate a lot more further, and I certainly do not want to overreach. I want to propose something that makes sense, that doesn't kill development, but also protects our neighbors right there, existing neighbors. And I think the rest of us feel the same way. Thank you. I see that.
 setback, but I don't I think like on the one thing with 70 feet pretty good sit but okay
 Mayor, as a point of clarification, if I may, I feel like I've heard a few requests for staff's work on this item and I think it would be very helpful for staff to make sure we have a clear picture of the request itself, not just for that work, but also for the proposal itself. In looking through the packet, I did not see any background information of the intent behind the ordinance. I saw our legal department's opinion about it, but not necessarily those from our council.
 And so I was hoping before we move on that we may be able to get some additional direction if we are to be performing any work.
 And I think that begins just running from the top. There's some confusion internally when we look at the ordinance. We see reference to neighborhoods that are not adjacent to this rezoning, so that's confusing to us and we wanted to make sure the council is clear on the boundaries of this request. This is not near the Washington Willow Historic District. This is not near the Wilson Park neighborhood. So I think it's confusing to us to understand how that relates to what's being proposed here.
 Additionally, I think there were two main concerns about what's being proposed may not be achieving the goal, which again, we're not completely certain what that goal is. And also, of course, what you often hear me harp on, which is unintended consequences. As far as the goal, I think it's worth the Council looking at this area and understanding that not all single family homes are in single family zoning districts.
 This one instance, I think the staff has only heard from this one resident. This one instance is a single family home in a single family district. There are other single family homes in multi family districts and other zoning designations.
 Conversely, there are a lot of single family zone properties that are completely undeveloped or as Miss Boston referred to have enormous properties. And they could have hundreds and hundreds of linear feet between properties along college avenue and when where that single family home is being designated and having the impact of, uh,
 Uh, reducing the, the entitlement on that property just by dent of the, the size of the property, even if it has a 100 feet of topographical difference and several 100 feet of linear distance between between the, the actual dwelling and the property in question. And so with that in mind.
 I think 1 of my questions is, in addition to the potential for visuals that Mr. Weedeker or Councilman Weedeker outlined is Council also asking what alternatives would look like, or or or things of that nature. So, uh, I just in the in the interest of time, I have heard some urge to that. This is.
 You want to be deliberate, but you also are mindful that time is of the essence. I would like to maximize the two weeks and time we may have available between now and your next meeting to make sure we're helping you make an informed decision.
 So, Jonathan, thank you for, as always, illustrating some of the complexities of what you guys have been up against. So I guess from my point of view, I'd really love to see sort of a deep dive into...
 the the neighborhoods that are on Elm Street that kind of a but are proposed or urban corridor and even if they're not at RSF for there's existing single family dwellings there and so I guess my position is I'm much more concerned about the existing dwellings and how they would be shaded
 irrespective I guess in some cases to their actual zoning district right now. I would also like to look at the sides not just the back so if the fire truck has to go has to have a particular distance away from the building or clearance throughout the entire or at least the three quarters both sides of the back of the of the potential eight story building that would be helpful to see.
 And then how much do we really have, I mean, this is such a huge area, this is so complicated. How much surface area is there really where we would have these potential situations, this potential shading and those kinds of concerns and privacy issues? Because that's another issue that kind of needs to be considered.
 And I do, you know, we have a great city, but we don't want to run out our existing residents or change the way that they've enjoyed their property because we've decided that we're going to rezone. So I really want the consideration to be on the existing neighborhood, but not overkill either because we definitely need 
 we really definitely need this zoning type. We need to be able to build there, and we need to be able to build efficiently and economically and meet our goals. And I'm happy to sit down
 discuss with you all further I'm a real visual person so if we can come up with some drawing some visualizations if you all have compromised ideas I'd really be open to that absolutely so it's I don't think one size fits all and this was just simply what we had done in other areas of the city so it made sense to bring it forward but I'm certainly open to getting it right
 thank you for feedback okay anybody else we're going to leave this on the first reading also correct okay well let's move along to number three although if i may mr mayor i'm sure i i'm slow on the draw and i suppose if there is an example in real life where we have applied this
 it might be valuable for us to see what its impact was, because it is a little bit hard in the abstract. I'm not sure that it's ever been applied, to be perfectly honest with you, and so I think that would be helpful. And then I should apologize. If I had communicated better, I wouldn't have led anyone to believe that I was
 intonating that the middle portion of college was or should have been included. I simply was trying to provide an example that there were single families that had expressed concern over building heights along college historically in the past. And I should get better at communicating that so you wouldn't think that it was either an admission or a concern, either one. It was just an acknowledgement of the validity of the concern.
 Well, we have, there is some examples out there, Mike. You're right. I mean, we have done, I know that Cherokee won because they were going to build something like 10 or 12 stories. I forgot what it was down in there.
 Maybe it's 84 feet, I can't remember. It was, I want to say, it was about a... It was a hotel, right? Yeah, I think so. And so they had to step back. We passed something in here that stepped it back. And so I think, and I'm not saying that this might be a part of the solution, but as part of the work that we would do...
 it's almost as if you have to look at it what some might deem an angle of attack that would literally say if i have a property and i'm going to build something tall that as long as i've achieved a certain angle of daylight then in effect the setback has been achieved in other words the farther away i'm naturally going to occur because of streets and fire lanes
 If I've achieved X amount, whether that's in feet or in an angle of daylight, I've achieved the required setback for protecting the single family home. I've seen that used before. I'm not proposing what that would look like. I'm simply saying it would change.
 where there's sufficient property distance would preclude the need for any setback because it's already been accomplished. And that's one of the few ways I can see of acknowledging that the condition already meets the desired goal of
 protecting in essence daylight for a single family home. Does that make any sense at all? Yeah, it does Councilmember Whitaker. I appreciate that. I think the reality is we will have to rely on diagrams for this because standards like this often prevent development. Yes. So I don't know that we have any examples in Fayetteville that were built that I can provide but we'll look for them. Failing that we will work on some diagrams and apologies if it felt like that comment about the neighbors was directed at you. That was the language of the ordinance which confused us.
 not something you said. Thank you. So you're talking about instead of step slow more or less. I mean instead of this you're talking about this. It's a good idea Mike. Well it is. I mean sorry I just the light bulb went on. Anything else? Well let's go on to yet again let us go on to number three.
 An ordinance to rezone the property described in the zoning petition RZM 2024-39 for approximately 0.15 acres located at 193 West Lafayette Street, Ward 2 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to NSG Neighborhood Services, General Kitt. Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor.
 Apologies, one moment. There we go. This property is in the downtown Fayetteville area, specifically in Ward 2 at the southwest corner of Lafayette Street and St. Charles Avenue, which you can see on screen, the large parking lot there that's associated with the United States Post Office building located along Dixon. So this is just northwest of that. The property includes about 0.15 acres and is developed with a single family house with its driveway onto St. Charles Avenue.
 The request is to rezone the property from its current NC neighborhood conservation zoning district to NSG neighborhood services general The applicant has indicated in their letter that they would like to Afford more flexible use of either the existing building or the property generally potentially for an office When looking at the request from a land use compatibility standpoint staff does find it to be so both in terms of the nearby area as well as the larger area and
 Perhaps unsurprisingly, being in downtown, there are a number of both non-residential and residential uses nearby. But even looking at it on an immediately adjacent piece of property basis, this site has single-family homes. It has a business associated with the Methodist Church and the aforementioned USPS office immediately adjacent to it.
 While many of these uses are smaller in scale, staff finds that the Neighborhood Services General Zoning District complements that with its limitation on building height to the same three stories that would be allowed in the Neighborhood Conservation Zoning District, and significantly less than the seven stories allowed in the Main Street Center Zoning District immediately to the east.
 from a long-range planning standpoint in terms of consistency staff does find this request to align with our Our future land or future land use map and our long-range planning goals this property is designated as a residential neighborhood area as council has heard me say in
 Frequently, that designation, despite its title, isn't exclusive to residential uses. It's intended to support a variety of housing types, with it being contextually appropriate, suggesting that that variety be increased. With this being the downtown area and the existing variety of housing types in the area, staff feels it's appropriate to allow the potential for single, two, three, and four family dwellings
 as well as smaller non-residential uses. Stockfield's further founded in this finding based on the property's infill score. Perhaps it comes as no surprise, being in downtown, that there are numerous elements that contribute to this being considered an appropriate infill location.
 In terms of the Downtown Master Plan, if you're familiar with our illustrative plans, many of them don't suggest anything other than what's on the ground at the time that they're drafted, but they do have several principles that support what should be considered moving forward. And among these, the number two principle, downtown living, is that we should encourage the ability to live workshop.
 in the same place. The NSG neighborhood, or excuse me, the NSG zoning district with its allowance for both residential and non-residential uses aligns with this in staff's estimation. As far as other issues go, the zoning proposal between neighborhood conservation and neighborhood services general will be identical. It's a 20% canopy requirement in both zoning districts.
 And with these findings in mind, staff is recommending approval. There was a planning commission split decision on the request of five to two. Interestingly, those in support and those opposed cited land use compatibility. Those in favor did find it to be a compatible proposal, whereas those opposed felt it was incompatible with the majority of the conversation circling around the question of density.
 If you did not have a chance to consider it in your packet, the biggest difference in that regard between neighborhood conservation and its 10-unit breaker is that neighborhood services general allows 18 units breaker. So it is an increase in allowance in that regard.
 Otherwise, to date, we've received no public comment on the request either before, at, or since the Planning Commission meeting. And I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor, last I checked, Payne Phillips was online. Yes, he's online as the applicant. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? Good evening, council. We appreciate the CitySouth support and I'll be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you. Okay. All right. What questions do we have?
 Let us take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber on this particular topic? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one's on Zoom, Mayor. All right. I mean, Mr. Phillips still has his hand up, but I believe that's just erroneous. Thank you.
 okay um what what what discussion would be like thank you mayor um jonathan um um it's this property is 0.15 acres correct that's correct and if the density is 18 units per acre and with the 20 requirement of tree canopy um
 and only three stories high, it's going to be pretty limited. Am I on to something here? I think that's a fair characterization, yes. So giving all of that, can you just figure out what the maximum number of units would be potentially in that? I mean, it looks pretty small to me.
 Trying to do math real quick. Sorry, live math is never easy. I'm putting you on the spot. I'm sorry. When you said the 18 units, but then I looked at how small the parcel is, it just seemed like the density in some ways is not really that important in this piece of property unless I'm really missing something. I believe if I'm doing my math correctly, it would...
 This is predicated on a few things. It's predicated on there being 20% tree canopy on the property. As a reminder with our tree preservation ordinance, there's not a requirement to plant up to 20%. If you have it, the expectation is that you keep it or mitigate on site. With that in mind, that would take the buildable area of the property down to roughly a tenth of an acre, just above a tenth of an acre. So we'd probably be looking at about two to three units in residential terms. Thank you. Thank you so much.
 Sarah. Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. I had mixed feelings looking at this and seeing kind of the split from the commissioners, but I haven't heard anything. I don't know if Council Member Whitaker has heard anything, but I haven't heard anything from folks that live in Ward 2. I know that Commissioner Madden does live right down the road from that, so I weighed that a bit.
 with their talking about compatibility. One of the things I think we should just be, have on our radar thinking about for future planning is Lafayette is kind of in this flux point. And so it's a buffer, but going to the entertainment district and it kind of buffers going to residential and it's kind of in this,
 Don't know mushy middle as it's trying to figure out what it wants to be where it's got homes are quite historic They're very close by Cottages and so I will tell you as a frequent user of the space It gets quite dicey being on foot and on automobile around Lafayette. I do both and bicycle and
 And so it's just something for us to keep in mind. There's a lot of visibility issues. There's a lot of terrain changing, the way that you have to kind of come out of some of the areas. You're either going up or you're going down. And so there's some visibility issues when we look at this going forward. But all of that said, I actually would like to suspend the rules and go ahead and go to the second reading.
 what'd you say i'm sorry sorry so it's been the rules to go to the second reading okay well let me get bob's yeah so i i just want us all to understand what this would be so yeah with a 20 tree canopy you'll be looking at 0.12 acres of developable land at 18 units an acre you'll be looking at two units and no more and so we're not talking about anything more than two units one
 I just wanted to second that motion.
 You would you're seconding the motion. Okay Mike did you have something you want? I was simply going to say that I had to watch the Planning Commission meeting because I had not received any feedback whatsoever. I'm saying that I can easily see how people could support this. To have this as a business however Ward 2 we have multiple small available office vacancies already pre-existing and
 I'd love to see the business go into that. It's currently a residence. It appears to be vacant. It appears that no substantial investment has been made in it. I don't know if their intent would be to scrape and build something new, but I would just as soon see this remain a residential property in this mixed neighborhood. It's a beautiful hazardous mix of residential and commercial that's just delightful.
 And so I'm happy for this to go forward for the vote. I'm gonna be very hesitant to support this simply because I view this as I wish investment had been made in the property of some substance over the last five years. And so seeing it sit there, I just as soon see it remain residential. Thank you. Okay.
 I got Sarah on the phone. Oh, yeah. Sarah. No? You were just seconding, weren't you? I thought you were. Bob, you're on. Jonathan, right across the street, there's a business. Is there not on the opposite corner? There have been businesses located there. I think right now there is active building permits to potentially use it as another business in the future. Yeah, I thought a bar was going to open there. They set it up and everything, but I don't think it ever opened.
 I think they're working through the permitting process. Gotcha. Okay. So, I mean, to me, a walkable neighborhood, and as we turn to a city, it's having those corner shops, corner cafes, corner coffee shops, corner businesses in our residence. It keeps people out of their cars. And so St. Charles has...
 at the other end has colliers has the post office has a bar that's trying to go through the permit process and i i don't know i i don't oppose this i think it's a fine use okay have we taken any public comments yet on this yes okay well then there you have it well uh well we're we have a motion a second to go to the second read okay it was sarah and it was i was the second sorry ready
 please call Rob bench yes sir yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes more yes we did curry no yes in order to rezone that property inscribed and rezoning petition RCN 2024-39
 for approximately 0.15 acres located at 193 west lafayette street and ward 2 from nc neighborhood conservation to nsg neighborhood services general move that we suspend the roles and go to the third reading second we have a motion second to go to third and final read care which please call the role bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes more yes
 No. Burnham? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-39 for approximately .15 acres located at 193 West Lafayette Street, Ward 2 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 Any final comments from the council? Tracy. I have another question. So, Jonathan, under Unit 12B, general business, is a bar included in that? That's a good question. I do not believe so, but if you can allow me a moment just to make sure I'm not forgetting. It tends to include smaller scale offices like an architect, a CPA, like a coffee shop,
 small restaurants, but I don't believe that extends to a bar that is held separately under use unit 14. Sorry, give me a moment.
 That is separately under use unit 14, yes. Hotel, motel, and amusement facilities. But an important distinction there is the way we have, that has been implemented for years in Fayetteville is it's based on receipts. So if you have less, 50% or more receipts of food, then it would constitute a restaurant under most of our use units. If you exceed that 50%, then suddenly it kicks over into being more of one of those alcohol service oriented businesses.
 okay thank you for that i i don't see use unit 14 even under the conditional use permit that's correct okay thank you for clarifying that okay everybody ready any other final comments or anything all right care which please call the road bunch yes sir yes herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes or yes no
 Okay. Bernard. Yes. Oh, sorry. Sorry, that was my fault. I paused. It would have been close. I'm not sure you know. Anyway. Okay, let's go to number four. An ordinance to rezone the property inscribed in rezone petition RZN 2024-36.
 For approximately .60 acres located at 820 West Montgomery Street Ward 1 from RSF 4 in residence, single-family, four units per acre to DG downtown general. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of the exhibit be both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre to DG Downtown General. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. John? John?
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to South Fayetteville and Ward 1. It's about 400 to 500 feet southwest of the intersection of South School Avenue and the South Fulbright Expressway. The property in question includes about 0.6 acres, which is a portion of Lot 1, Block 2 of the Kenwood addition. So part of this larger single family neighborhood to the southwest and north.
 and is bordered by right-of-way associated with South School Avenue to the east, Montgomery Street to the south, and Irene Street to the west. The property is currently developed with a single-family dwelling and two accessory structures.
 It is otherwise characterized by an unnamed protected stream passing through the property from east to west. You can see this on screen in terms of federal FEMA floodplain designations with the hatched area being areas designated as floodway, the blue as 100-year floodplain, and orange as 500-year floodplain.
 The request before Council is to rezone the property from its current RSF4 zoning district, residential single family four units breaker to DG, downtown general, with the applicant indicating in their letter that this is to allow more flexibility and a potential mixture of uses on the property.
 When looking at this request, beginning from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff's findings were mixed. If you look at it, regardless of intervening right of ways and transportation corridors, it is indisputable that there is a wide variety of land uses in this area. If you're familiar with South School, you know that there are a number of businesses located along the South School Avenue corridor.
 Uh, conversely, uh, when staff looking at this property in terms of where those, those streets are located, uh, this property is removed from them in the sense that it does not have direct access to South school Avenue, which I'll touch on a little bit later in this conversation as well.
 Additionally, existing land uses and the zoning districts in this exact neighborhood are generally exactly what they appear to be. The RSF4 areas to the northwest and south are all built with single family homes with the one exception
 Or the only zoning exception being immediately to the south, which is owned RMF six residential multifamily six units per acre. Those of you on council in 2019 may recall that rezoning request. It did come with a bill of assurance at that time, which was a fairly prescriptive.
 Two single family homes and two ad use or two duplexes and a maximum of two stories in height. So that does not represent a full allowance of residential multifamily zoning district that it may appear initially on a zoning map.
 When considering the request from a land use plan consistency standpoint, the area is designated as a residential neighborhood area. As I touched on the last item, this is meant to promote a diversity or a variety of different housing types, depending on the context and also the potential for non-residential uses.
 Uh, the downtown general zone district allows the full spectrum of housing uses single 234 and multifamily and also allows for a wide variety of non residential. Uh, zoning uses, um, that's where the, uh, the need to evaluate an appropriateness standpoint of that.
 That future line use map designation comes into play, and one of the ways staff does that is using some of our objective metrics like our infill score for this particular property, there are very few elements that contribute to that. does have access to water and sewer and there is a transit stop nearby and there's also adequate fire response with the new station located on South school.
 But that constitutes the extent of those elements that make for an appropriate infill location, which ultimately with those in mind, staff does not find it to be so. There are a few other items I want to touch on that went into staff's consideration with this request.
 The tree preservation minimum would go from our 25% highest standard, which is associated with our RSA for zoning district to 10% under DG. Uh, if you'll recall some of our, our downtown and urban zoning districts do have a lower tree preservation requirement to account for the needs for more intense uses in certain parts of our city.
 Also, as I referenced at the top of the presentation, the property is just about fully encumbered with floodplain of one sort or another. While a large portion of the property was designated as floodplain prior to updating our maps earlier this year, it still was about two-thirds, three-quarters of the property. With the current FEMA maps that were adopted, extended to include the remainder of the property
 That Southeast corner you see in orange there being where the existing house on the property currently sits outside of 100 year floodplain. Also, as I alluded to at the top of the presentation access, it was another factor in staff's consideration. While South school avenue initially appears to be a readily accessible point for this property, and that it may make sense to have a more intense use and a more more variety of uses accessing that major transportation corridor.
 In consultation with the Arkansas Department of Transportation, we found that there is a control of access standard there that prevents all the properties adjacent to that area you see in green from accessing South School Avenue directly. Part of the improvement being made or that modification being made to 71B at that time was to create this Montgomery Street that came off as a sort of access road so that this neighborhood could still enter South School Avenue but separated from the proximity to that interchange.
 Lastly, there has been some public comment on this item, both for and against the most recent being at the planning commission, a resident did speak in favor of the proposal. We've not heard anything since then from staff and all that public comment was either included in the packet or characterized in there as well.
 Finally, I did want to touch on how this request came to you all. It originally was a proposal to rezone its CS community services by the applicant. Staff's position at the time was to recommend denial of it. The Planning Commission felt that there may be an opportunity for a different proposal to be brought forward, and so they tabled it to afford the applicant the opportunity to amend their request, which they did to the DG downtown general proposal that council sees today or this evening.
 Ultimately staff recommendation of denial holds I think are overriding concerns about floodplain We're a big factor in that I do want to linger on that for a moment I think you've often seen requests come to council before some with floodplain some without it somewhere portions of the property of floodplain and where it may appear that staff is inconsistent on those recommendations and
 Often what you'll see is the properties that do have floodplain that we do support is there's a significant amount of area area outside the floodplain where we feel that our floodplain regulations can help accommodate development. That is sensitive to downstream property owners. In this instance, we don't know that that does not appear that that ability exists given the amount of the property that's encumbered.
 With that said, when the Planning Commission considered this revised request, they ultimately supported it by a vote of five to two. The supporting commissioners found that the floodway that I referenced a moment ago is ultimately limiting the impacts in such a way that they do not have concerns from a land use perspective. Additionally, they felt that the proximity to South School, whether there was direct access or not, represented an opportunity to connect this property with our wider transportation network.
 and also there was a commentary that the nearby land uses were varied enough that they could complement the downtown general zoning district. Interestingly, a lot of those same factors factored into those who recommended denial of the request. The floodplain posed a concern to several or to two of the commissioners and they felt that the compatibility with the directly adjacent neighborhood was the most prominent concern.
 Ultimately, there were also a few other items that the Commission brought up a question of taking with regards to that floodplain. One commissioner had concerns that the floodplain constituted a regular regulatory taking of by the city of Fayetteville. Mr. Pennington, the senior assistant, the senior assistant city attorney clarified at that meeting that that is a FEMA standard. That's not a local jurisdictional.
 A standard, and it should not prevent the condition from voting one way or another on this request. Also, there's a question from 1 commissioner about short term rentals on the property. And the applicant shared that they had a business license. We're working through what it looks like to can do what it looks like to continue operating or not on the property.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions that the council has, and Mayor Rebecca Webb is here as the applicant for the item. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? My name is Rebecca Webb. I live at 820 West Montgomery Street. I'm here if you have any questions to ask me. Okay. What questions does the council have? Okay.
 If I may, is the property used as an Airbnb at this time? Currently I live in the house that I bought. I did build two Airbnbs. We've run into some codes that we have to work through on those, but I live in the house on this property and it faces South School, so when I look out my front door, I can see
 What I look out on my front door is a liquor store, a gas station, mail co, a clothing store. So it's right in the middle of commercial and industrial. The right-of-way that was added was added to slow traffic coming off the highway. When that house was originally built, the traffic that is in Bayville was not present. And it is becoming...
 very difficult even at night to have kind of any kind of quiet when you're on a four-lane intersection. So it's really not feasible that it's going to stay a single-family home just because of its location to South School. Okay. Any other questions for staff? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. They have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this topic? Anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay, going right back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? What would you like to talk about? Okay.
 okay Bob you're on when I pulled up Street View and looking at the map on Google and it's just the access from South School is about a long block away and I do I am concerned about the floodplain and then and then when I look at this this neighborhood it is all very residential I noticed there's
 are those i i guess i have a question for that are those two sheds in the back or the what there's two small outbuildings it looks like okay so there was one out building on the property when i bought it and then the two additional sheds i built
 Are those just sheds or are they meant to be? Well, they're not sheds anymore. They're air conditioned and sheet rock. Those are the Airbnbs. Oh, those are meant to be Airbnbs? Yes. Did you operate them as Airbnbs? Yes, they've been operating until just recently when I was told not to. So you operate them as Airbnbs without a license? No, I had a license. Oh, okay. Why aren't they allowed to be Airbnbs now? I don't know.
 That question directed at me. Yeah, yes, that is a, that is a parallel issue that's being worked through with the applicant. They she did request a Airbnb business license when I believe these were installed on the property. It was requested as a type one short term rental license staff reviewed it based on the address, which was provided, which is for the house.
 The inspector who visited the property was directed to one of these modified sheds, which the applicant had always intended to be the short-term rental. It was discovered belatedly that those were installed without building permits, and so that is something that we're working through with the property owner, and it's not something that was necessarily a factor in the land use consideration. Okay, and they wouldn't need to rezone for those to operate as Airbnbs, right? They could do that under the current zoning?
 That is correct. I think I'm thinking through how planning identified a potential path forward. There are multiple layers to this. There is a permitting question. There's the floodway question. And then also how those two units could be treated as Airbnbs, type two short term rentals on one property. Gotcha.
 and then um neighbors no comment from the neighbors so the neighbors we've had neighbors speak in favor of it my my property is the first property when you come in the neighborhood so even though you can't directly turn from south school on a market we do turn directly onto montgomery street but then you do go on that little stretch of road
 and you go straight to my house, and my house is the first house when you enter the neighborhood, so then you can leave from there. So it doesn't actually put traffic through the neighborhood, but then also there's also two pieces of land for sale at the end of that neighborhood that are totaling about 20 acres that are listed as development. So if that's sold and that's developed, then that's...
 more homes in that neighborhood. And if you look kind of at South School, as you're trying to rebuild South School and bring things to that area, we don't have a lot of businesses down there except for bail bonds and liquor stores. So we do need opportunities to rent some of these places out for restaurants and shops and things like that to bring people to the area. Yeah. Okay, thank you. Thank you. I guess my concern is that this isn't...
 doesn't have direct access to South School that you do turn down a side road and kind of run parallel to South School and it uh I don't know this is this is I almost feel like I need to go down there if I were to support it I'd have to go down there first and kind of drive around I really I recommend everybody looking at looking at this and in and seeing if this is a good fit or not and
 please i i think i'd like to leave it on the first reading no no it's fine i thought you were done thank you mayor um i just want to um i had just gotten on the council or had been on the council very long when this rmf6 rezoning came forward we had a whole lot of neighbors that were here before us they did not want that they were extremely concerned about the integrity of their neighborhood
 Now I don't know why they're not here tonight expressing the same concerns that they had six or seven, five years ago, five, six years ago. I do have a question for Jonathan and maybe you mentioned it and I missed it. Are there two type two permits? Does she have a type two conditional use permit and business license currently? It's one type one.
 type 1 so those need to be so we're capped out at type 2 ish is she in the queue don't believe currently that's a good question I'd have to defer to the applicant if they've entered the queue or not okay from another point of view I you know it's right in the floodplain I mean this is total floodplain downtown general is a high density you
 know zoning district so she could potentially put a five-story building in there now if I recall correctly when I was down there five years ago looking at that neighborhood I think these are almost all single-family houses so that would be a dramatic change and
 think those are all all considerations I cannot see how I would support this with the the floodplain area the huge building height the density it's just to me it's just extremely out of place so I'll leave it at that
 Thank you mayor Teresa actually asked my question, so I'm good. Oh, thank you, okay? Thank you mayor and I wondered and looking through the packet if I missed it I apologize but um whenever staff was looking at the possible Project as the applicant came forward whether other any other zones that were considered or proposed outside of Downtown general then that would be outside of the RSF for I
 Community services was the original request and I believe I believe Neighborhood services general was discussed as well. I think the Planning Commission asked a similar question I think ultimately downtown general served what the applicant wanted to do with the property best. Okay. Thank you. Um so I really appreciate what the applicant said about this area is kind of starved for certain services and for
 You know, I think again as we think about and are defining parts of Fayetteville, I would hope that we wouldn't want to leave any parts behind and I would say that this might be identified as one that's been left behind for some time because you're right. I mean it has a lot of lack of services that are out in that area. And you have a lot of hardworking individuals and a very vulnerable population that typically is out in this area. And so I'm kind of weighing that as I look at it.
 You know, I am, you know, struggling with some of the considerations as far as it being in a flood plain, that it doesn't have any future possible access directly to school. But I also know that there are some pressures on potentially additional housing developments and more people potentially heading down there.
 general area And we do have things like transit service that are running along that line and embodies that are going along there and so
 I'm not thinking that I would even have to move on this tonight, maybe thinking more thoughtfully around what makes sense there. I don't know, just because it's RSF4 today, that that area is always going to be a single family in that area, because, you know, there are some opportunity areas, I think, around there that might be being looked at. And so I think that's something to also consider as we make this decision. So, yeah.
 I'm not leaning one way or the other right now, so I'm not being very helpful, but those are kind of considerations that I'm thinking about. Jonathan, would you bring that map up for me? I'm sorry, Mayor, which map? The one that showed the buildings in floodplain. Okay. I want to look at that again. Mayor, may I make a quick comment? Oh, yeah, sure. You know, and I think this, Jonathan saying, oh,
 help understand you see kind of like big lots small houses um i i don't know i don't know i i would have a hard time but definitely couldn't approve this tonight if it came to a vote and i have a hard time it's a very small neighborhood it's very i don't think people out there necessarily want uh services right next door to them it's not that kind of doesn't look like that kind of neighborhood
 That would be like me saying well Loxley and Rolling Hills doesn't have a corner store. It's like well someone tried to put one there. You'd be raising a stink. No one would want it there. So I just think everybody needs to really take a close look at this neighborhood and what it is. It's kind of like a rural, old school Fayetteville rural neighborhood to me. You know, small subdivision.
 small houses modest houses Big Lots and again not good at access to school street you'd be bringing You would be bringing traffic into the neighborhood So I don't know what the intention of the use is for this but You know once we zone it that it's on that way and then the whole thing is you can see is pretty much in flood Zone and flood way how big are the structures? You know
 they look like sheds it looks like about 80 square feet or 100 feet but i don't know if that's right no i didn't come on up for me how big are they they're 12 by 16. okay jonathan there wasn't a building permit for them did you say that no mayor okay all right i'm done anybody oh tracy i can't remember if we've taken public comment or not okay i'm sorry
 Okay, everybody has it's one turn to speak you have a three minute duration Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic Please give us your name and address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this topic? You have anybody on yes, sir. Okay. I'm gonna bring it back to you all I
 so what discussion would we like to start with Teresa I'd like to move that we suspend the rules to go to the second reading second motion in a second go to the second reading care which please call Rob yes yes Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes more yes yes yes
 And your ordinance to rezone the property described in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-36 for a property of 0.6 acres located at 820 West Montgomery Street in Ward 1 from RMF 4, residential single-family, four units per acre to DG downtown general. I'd like to suspend the rules to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Yes. Clark? Yes.
 Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes more no be occurred no pardon me yes in order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-36 for approximately 0.6 acres located at 820 West Montgomery Street and Ward 1 from RSF 4 residential single-family 4 units per acre to DG downtown general
 final comments from the council there okay all right care which please call the road bunch no turk no herzberg no stafford no jones yes moore no no burner no okay well thank you all
 Well, that concludes our business. Is there any announcements? No, sir. We do have the, I think we have the dump, not the dump run, but the bulky waste. It is definitely the season for the fall bulky waste cleanups. Check the website for locations. And we had our first one last Saturday, so we have three more. Okay. Well, thank you all. We're adjourned.