I would like to call the City Council of October 6, 2015 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? LeTour. Present. Long. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Here. Schottmeyer. Mayor Jordan. Here. Join me in the Pledge of Allegiance.
 First order of business tonight under the mayor's announcements, proclamations, recognitions. Jeremy Pate, I believe you have an announcement tonight. Just the first item, first presentation tonight on the agenda is a presentation by the Favorable Natural Heritage Association.
 You may remember in the spring of last year, the city was fortunate enough to close on more than 300 acres called Kessler Mountain to preserve that land in perpetuity for ecological benefit, also for recreational benefit. And so that added to the over 200 acres we already acquired for the city's regional park that's currently under construction.
 We had two funding partners in that acquisition. One was the Walton Family Foundation who graciously gave us $1.5 million to match a one-to-one match for that purchase. In addition, Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association stepped up to the plate and committed at least $300,000 to the purchase of that property.
 earlier this year with a proposal to offset $120,000 roughly in benefits to Kessler Mountain. That would include a conservation easement, biological plans, habitat management plans, educational signage.
 things of that nature. And then almost $180,000 they committed to bringing back in cash to you. In addition, Dr. and Mrs. Hanselman, as well as the Wolchens, also established a foundation, the Fayetteville Natural Areas Foundation, and have already paid to the city $10,000 as part of this commitment back to the city. So I'd like to introduce, I believe Bob Hawke is here with FNHA to present a check to the city council for their first installment of the commitment back to the city.
 Tom, good evening. Good evening. First of all, John sends his regrets. He got called away on business at the last minute. He really would like to be here to give you one of these checks, but this is the second time I've had to stand in for him. It's a tough job. As Jeremy mentioned, we have spent some money already on some other things, and we have won.
 fairly large outstanding one that will be come forward when the conservation easement is finalized very shortly the maintenance fee For that and that when we have paid those things plus the what the Fayetteville Natural Area Foundation has put up With this check we will have made it to one hundred thousand dollars towards the three hundred thousand dollar commitment and
 And with that, this check is for $30,000, and I'd like to give it to you. I would like to say that this is not the first time we have had a partnership with Federal Natural Heritage Association. We partnered up with Brooks Hummel and another piece of property on Mount Sequoia, and you all have been excellent partners for this city, and I personally want to thank you on behalf of myself, the council, and the citizens of Federal.
 The next order of business is to the City Council. City Council meeting presentation, Ozark Regional Transit presentation. Ozark Regional. Oh, well, you missed the last presentation. I guess we'll miss this one as well. Okay, maybe next time. All right, the first order of business I have tonight, I have a walk-on that I would like to ask the council to put on the agenda. Okay.
 is the proposal to consolidate the Federal Local Fireman's Pension Fund with Lofty by the Local Fireman's Pension Board. I'll entertain a motion to put this on the agenda. I'll move. I have a motion and a second to add the proposal to the agenda. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm going to try the best I can to summarize the issues of a very, very complex problem that we face. We have an old pension fund that funds the pension for the firefighters.
 and we also have an old pension fund that funds the police officers who were prior to 1983 when ALAPHI came on board. Back years ago, that pension fund was to provide fifty percent of salary benefits for those police and firefighters who retired. After ALAPHI came on board,
 those pension funds went under the jurisdiction of the PRB, the State Board, the Pension Review Board, which is to monitor those funds. And one of the things that the Pension Review Board
 pension review board could do was grant increases if in fact it actuarially looked like that could be done and they did this by what was called a cash flow study. In other words, if interest earnings were enough that it looked like increases could be granted, they would approve that recommendation to the board.
 trustees of the Oversight Board of the pension fund and that's a board here at the city not under city jurisdiction but would have members of retired police or firefighters depending on which trust fund you're talking about plus the mayor and the city clerk would be members of those
 In 1996, a request was made to increase those benefits from 50% of retired salary to 65%. That was reviewed by the PRB's actuary. That actuary was Jody Carrero, who addressed you last Tuesday and gave a presentation about the condition of the funds. That, in fact, was recommended and said it could be done.
 The Board of Trustees did approve that, therefore the pensions were increased to 65% of ending salary. Again in 2001, a request was made to again increase those benefits. Went through Pension Review Board, went through the actuary. The actuary certified that he felt that that could be done at that point in time.
 And the pensions were raised to 90% of ending salary. Now again, the actuaries looked at it, felt at that point in time that that looked possible, that that could be done based on investment earnings at that point in time. Remember back in the late 80s, investment returns were very, very strong.
 Increases were requested, reviewed by PRB, said that they could be done, and then were approved by the Board of Trustees. 2003, a 3% COLA was temporarily approved for three years. This again goes through the same process we talked about. It goes to the Pension Review Board, goes to the actuary at that point in time, who said in fact it looked like earnings could in fact support this.
 Then of course, we hit times where earnings increases were not as good as they were. In other words, investment returns weren't as good as had previously been experienced. 2007 again, an increase was requested and at that point in time, PRB turned it down, did not feel that the fund could support an increase at that point in time.
 In 2009, and remember again, we hit very, very tough economic times. Last quarter, 2008, the fire pension fund was declared or projected insolvent. So that meant it looked like it was going to run out of funds. And at that point of time, they were talking about 10 to 15 years. Presentation was made in 2010. Okay.
 Very few of you were on the council at that point of time. I think Matthew Petty was here and Adela Gray was here at that point of time. They came to Fayetteville, did a presentation of what they thought it would take to save the fund. At that time their projection was it would take $250,000 to $350,000 per year over between 15 and 25 years to save the fund.
 We here at the city, and based on my recommendation, did not feel we had the funds at that point in time to allocate to the old pension fund, and this is just the fire pension fund we're talking about, to fund it to that level. Therefore, nothing was done. Back at the trustees meeting, it was recommended.
 by the mayor and city clerk that pension amounts be reduced to save the fund. Therefore, reduce the pension amounts to the pensioners. That was not done. That was voted down. An attorney general's opinion was requested and the attorney general
 ruled or advised that he did not feel there was enabling legislation to allow that to happen. Kitt, as city attorney, recommended and advised us that the city was not liable for that pension fund. That's the responsibility of the pension fund and the trustees of that fund at that point in time. Since that time, proposed legislation
 was presented to the legislature, which would allow us legally, or allow the trustees legally to reduce those pensions to pensioners if they felt it was necessary to save the fund. That was voted down in the legislature. So currently where we are is we have a pension fund that is a liability of the trust fund, as advised by our city attorney, and it looks like
 it is near certain to run dry in the future. As of 2014, that fund's unfunded actuarial liability is $14 million. Now, what does the unfunded liability mean? That means if everything stopped right now, we got no more money coming in.
 We earn no more investment income. Everything, all of the actuarial assumptions were maintained. City would have to come up with, or the pension fund in this case, would have to come up with $14 million. Now, that's not going to happen. We're going to get money in from a levy that was approved by the voters of .4 mils.
 in the future, so we are going to get income into that fund, so that liability will not be that large if, in fact, it failed. However, that's the unfunded liability calculated at this point in time. We got a lot of statistics that we asked for and a lot of statistics to digest. Some of them, as were presented by the actuary last week, and I know actuarial science isn't the easiest thing to understand, but
 what was presented is if the property tax grows for the four-tenths of a mill to fund this plan by three percent and if investment earnings are eight percent over the time period that's 25 years that we're looking at that the fund possibly could make it without any assistance for the city if the city agreed to
 take that liability on and send it down to the Lafayette Board to run. If, in fact, property tax growth was only 2% and 8% earnings were achieved, it would have a liability over time of about $750,000. We asked that if interest earnings, interest on investments, were only 5%,
 what it would look like over time. In over a 25 year period, that looked like that total liability could be as high as $4 million. We asked them about 1% growth and the only one that was a judge at 1% property tax growth, if we earned 8% or excuse me, if Loppy earned 8% interest on those funds,
 still that liability would be about 2.3 million dollars. Now that's in addition to all the other revenue coming in to the to the trust fund to pay the pensioners. There's three types of revenue coming in. One, the millage I already talked about which is four tenths of a mil. That generates in the neighborhood of five hundred, five hundred twenty thousand dollars. Currently we're getting premium tax income
 of roughly $200,000 last year coming into the fund, about $700,000, and the rest is, or the trust fund depends on interest earnings for. So it's getting about $700,000 in at this point in time. It's paying out about $1.1 million. So you can see it's paying out much more and it's coming in from those sources. The rest have to depend on interest earnings to make up the difference.
 So if we try to ascertain what our liability might be over time, of course we have to worry about the stability of those sources of income and those variables. One, we have to count the property taxes increase. Two, we have to assume that interest earnings will be achieved and their projected interest earnings by the actuaries were 8%, that's what they use.
 and we also have to assume that we will continue to get premium taxes on property insurance to help fund that, and that comes as a turn back form from the state collection on insurance premiums for property taxes. So those are some significant variables that we have to look at. Another very important variable that we have to look at is the mortality table.
 That means do people pass on at the rate that the actuary assumes based on age, etc. So that can change your entire actuarial evaluation also. So there are a lot of variables here. Interest earnings, how much the increase in property tax will be, do we continue to get the insurance turn back,
 and do those assumptions such as mortality hold true. And each and every year there is a new study, a new actuarial study. Now, if the city does decide, if you decide to send that down to Lofty, we sign a contract with Lofty saying we in fact will pay what's necessary to keep this going forward and continue to pay the pensioners. They can raise that to what they need to pay those pensioners.
 We know what that will be in 2016. We don't know what that will be after that. They could raise it as early as 2017. Now this all comes back to us as a formula of what it would cost as a percent of what we call covered payroll, or what we pay in total salaries to the current working firemen. The current rate we pay
 is 24.5% of covered payroll to cover all of our Lofty people. If in fact this was sent down and was combined, the rate would be 33.37%. But remember that's just guaranteed for one year. Now in fact what would that be in dollars? That would mean that what we pay to Lofty goes up $561,000.
 We're taking in about $740,000, $750,000 in the combination of insurance turn back that we talked about plus property taxes. So we would have more than enough to pay that for that year. One of the things that the actuary suggested when he came here was, look, to make sure that you could meet this or to do the best as possible and pay that liability down, what you would do is send everything you collect back
 down to LOPPY to help reduce that actuarial unfunded liability faster. And of course, we would do that. That wouldn't be a problem for us because we would have, would not behoove us to sit on money here. We could do that. But we do not know what that rate could change to going forward. So again, like I say, we have a lot of variables here. We can go anywhere from liability could be as high as $8 million or higher, could be as low as nothing.
 The difference is we aren't fast taking on a risk. However, one thing we do know, unless a miracle happens, that pension fund is going to run out of money some point in the near future. And when I say near future, probably about five years. Now does that mean there'll be no money coming in? No. That property tax continues just as long as there's a pensioneer out. But at that point in time,
 There wouldn't be money to pay those pensioners. So the request coming to you is coming from the LOPI Board of Trustees, and they're asking you to agree and sign a contract with LOPI to send the stout to LOPI, have LOPI manage it, pay the current pension costs at the same level they are right now, and pay LOPI what they need. Again, to me there's a lot of uncertainties.
 I expressed at the meeting last Tuesday that I have reservations about 8% interest earnings. Now, a lot of people will come and tell you they've earned in excess of 9% interest earnings over the life of the plan, and that's true. But remember, that plan goes back to the 90s.
 when interest earnings were very, very good. I don't have a crystal ball. I can't tell you what interest earnings are going to be. I can't tell you whether or not property taxes are going to increase. None of us can. But that's a risk we would be taking on if in fact you feel cities should take on this obligation. From where I see it, I'll summarize the potential options I think you have.
 You could subsidize the current plan. The PRB actuary discussed that at one time. You'd be talking about putting in between $150,000 to $350,000 a year into the current plan under the administration of the Board of Trustees with no control. We just don't have that kind of money to subsidize it at this point in time unless we radically cut some type of program or some type of services.
 But that would be one option. Two, could send it to LOPI, assume the liability, which in fact would guarantee those pensions being paid to the pensioners. That would earn greater interest earnings because they could pool it
 Now they have to make 8% according to what their estimate is, and we don't know if that's going to happen, but we would be taking on a significant risk. We can't really calculate that risk at this point in time. There's nothing definite. There's no cap on it, other than if you want to consider $14 million, and that's not fair either because it wouldn't be that high. But that would be the absolute maximum cap.
 However, like I say, we would be assuming some type of liability, if any. Could be $750,000, could be $2 million, we just can't pin that down at this point in time. So we have to understand that, or excuse me, you have to understand that to make an informed decision. You can leave it the way it is right now. Kit Williamson, our city attorney, has advised that the city does not have a liability for this. We leave it where it is right now, the chances are that it's going to run dry.
 One option we have open to us, or you have open to us, we could go back to the voter, we could ask the voter to extend the property taxes up to one mil, and that way put it out for referendum. Under those circumstances or scenarios, you could either send it down to Loppe to administer. They would be assured of their pension, and it would be additionally supported by extra millage.
 up to six-tenths of a mil extra, and that's a potential option for you. The last option, pursue legislation at the next legislative meeting to get legislation to reduce the pension funds or do something else, whatever you wish. You could get legislation that could help out these funds or allow them to manage them better. Now those I see as your four options. I did the best I could to try to summarize it
 what I consider somewhat of an understandable manner, but I hope you get a sense that there is a risk There are a lot of variables potential liability may not occur But this is what we would be taking on at this point in time of course the legal Issues I can't speak to that's your city attorneys Forte not mine because I'm not an attorney. I'll be happy to answer any questions Yes, John
 Paul, you mentioned that one of the possible options for resolving the conflict is a millage rate increase we take to the public. You mentioned six-tenths increase? Yes. Yes. We have, the statute allows up to one mill for, by voter referendum. We currently have four-tenths of a mill. Have you run the numbers, if we take it to a full one mill, if the people vote to do that, will this save the fund?
 It should. It should generate at least another $600,000 or more a year to the fund. I mean, we currently are getting on four-tenths of a mil, we're currently getting, what was the number again, $525,000. So it would at least double that. It would more than double that. That should be enough from at least what the actuarial studies are to save the fund.
 If we were to assume the liability and send this to Lofby, you understand Lofby's not going to accept our liabilities, our net liabilities, without some commitment from our city. That would be coming from the people of Fayetteville. If we increase the millage, that's coming from the people of Fayetteville. It's just more direct from the people. It lets them know what their government is doing. I like that. Of the three options, that's my favorite. Take it to the people. Well, that's...
 I threw out what I felt the options are. Well, remember, LAPI's not going to, you're absolutely right, John, LAPI's not going to assume anything. LAPI's going to manage the fund. What can they do? They can take that fund, they can pool it with the investment resources, and should be able to gain a greater return. That's what LAPI can do if they manage it. But they do not assume that liability. The city would assume that liability. Kit? Maybe I should read the ordinance
 Maybe you should. So let me put it on the first reading. Ordinance transferring administration of retirement coverage for eligible members of the Fayetteville Fire Pension Relief Fund to the Arkansas local police and fire retirement system, LOPFI, and authorizing the mayor to enter into an irrevocable agreement with LOPFI and approving an emergency clause.
 Whereas the Board of Trustees of the Fayetteville Fire Pension Relief Fund have elected to have its pension fund administered by LOTFE as stated by the resolution dated September 30th of 2015. And whereas the Board of Trustees has requested by resolution that the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas to act as its agent henceforth. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 If accepted by Lotfi, the administration of the Fayetteville Fire, Pension, and Relief Fund shall be transferred to Lotfi under authority of Act 364 of 1981 as amended. Such transfer shall mean the administration of the pension fund only and not a change in a pension fund's benefit program unless a benefit increase is approved by the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas.
 Section 2 that Mayor Jordan is hereby authorized to enter into an irrevocable agreement using a 25-year amortization schedule with lot fee to administer the Fayetteville fire pension and relief fund as stated in section 1 above and attached as exhibit a section 3 is
 It is the intent of the City Council and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall be codified into the Code of Ordinances of Fayetteville, Arkansas, and the sections thereof may be renumbered or re-lettered as necessary to accomplish such intention. And Section 4, due to the need to consolidate administration of the Fayetteville Fire Pension Relief Fund with Lotfi in less than one month, an emergency is hereby declared to exist and this ordinance shall be in full force and effect after the date of its passage and approval.
 This is the ordinance that was presented to the city by Lotfi, which they require us to pass. We want to try to consolidate and transfer with Lotfi. And the agreement, which is attached also to this or a part of this, which does say that we will have to pay a half a percent.
 for their investment costs every year, plus 1% of all the salary costs, which, or the amount of salary, which I guess is that 30-something percent of salaries that we are sending down to Lafayette. I think that's another administrative cost. Because of the half a percent of investment costs, that means the fund would, to achieve 8%, would actually have to earn it, 8 1⁄2%.
 And I'm not sure about the amount of money that's required in the second part of that contract. Again, this was a contract that they said, this is what you must do. It was not really a negotiated contract. And those costs were, in fact, factored into the actuarial study, I will say. So they've been factored in as costs. Justin, I believe you had a question. Anything else? I think Matthew may be on first. Did you?
 I have a quick clarification question. I think you might have talked about this, but didn't State Representative Whitaker, he introduced legislation that was fought and defeated that would have enabled funds, legal authority like this to deal with their funds. Is that not correct? That's correct. From what I saw, it was fought pretty harshly by the very group that I would think would benefit from it. I still don't understand why.
 They fought something that I would think would enable them to do the very thing they're asking the taxpayers now to do. I'm just confused. I just wanted to clarify that that happened. I can't comment to who supported or not supported it. I can comment that it was in fact introduced and it was in fact defeated. I will say that Representative Whitaker requested
 that I go down to testify about this in front of the Joint Committee of the House and Senate, which it did pass in. And at that committee, there were representatives of the Fayetteville Fire Pension Relief Fund, as well as the State Pension Relief Board that argued very stringently that they should not pass that, that they did not want the authority to reduce their benefits regardless of whether it was voluntary and just gave them discretion or not.
 And it did pass the House, but then they were able to get it stopped and defeat it in the Senate to try to prevent them from having any authority to reduce benefits, even though the Pension Board is certainly controlled by the pensioners themselves with four out of six votes. But I was there, so I heard them. Jody Carrera was there, but more as just explaining the particular predicaments of various pension funds there.
 So, that's what happened down in the legislature. I was frankly, I was surprised that it was opposed because all it would have done is given them additional clear power. I had opined I believed they had the power anyway, but the Attorney General disagreed with me so I thought a statute would clear that up, but that statute did not pass. Okay. That's why it confused me. Why, same way, I was confused of why they would fight it. I think that would be the enablement that they would want to make those changes, give them power.
 Okay. Just wanted to be clear on that. Thank you very much. Mr. Herland and Matthew. Actually, my question was along the same lines as Alderman Tennant's. So I just want to be clear. So even though they've seen a 40% increase in benefits over the last 20 years, which seems a little out of step with average earnings.
 for active workers, but so they do not have the authority to reduce their benefits. Is that correct? Well, the Attorney General says they do not have that authority. I believe they do have the authority. Nobody will really know unless the judge says they do or do not have that authority. But the statute would have given them absolutely clear authority to do it, but unfortunately that was defeated in the Senate. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'd say I'm like 70 or 80 percent way of the way there on what my opinion is. Before I really get into that though, I just had a couple of clarification questions like the other alderman. For a city attorney, do you still, is that still your opinion that they have the authority to reduce their benefits? Yes, I do. I still believe that there is a particular statute that talks about prorating benefits and I don't believe that only takes an effect.
 when the fund has been driven into the ground with no money left. Okay. Obviously, if it's, the Attorney General said that basically you have to totally deplete the fund, have it go bankrupt, before you can start prorating the benefits. Okay. My second question is,
 It has to do with the comparative returns. We've been told that historically the lot fee returns have been, you said, in excess of 9%? That's correct, from their inception back in 83. What are the historical returns for the local fund as it's been managed thus far? I can only go back about 10 years. It's 5%, but lately it's under that.
 a few percentage points at least less than the LOPC fund. Yes, I would say right about now, Matthew, I think from the last report it was about 3.5%, but this is another thing that I did not mention. I'm glad you asked this question. As the fund currently stays here, it's a little over $4 million currently. Once a fund goes under $5 million, the law restricts where you can invest it.
 where when it was over $5 million, the investment manager here for the fire pension fund was fairly aggressive and could earn a better rate than that, was earning 6%, 7% at times, and she felt that it was down to about 5% was about the best that could be done. They could actively manage it. Once it goes under 5%,
 you're restricting the type of instruments you can get in. You can't get in the riskier investments, which would have a higher return associated. So that's one reason why LOPI, there's no doubt LOPI could, in fact, earn a better return if there are returns to be had. Of course, nobody knows that. I'm glad you concluded with that. That was the heart of my question. My other clarifying question is you presented as one of the options that we could raise taxes.
 Is it not, or the people could raise taxes, I wanna be clear. Is it not also true that if we consolidated this with lot fee and the best, the scenario we've been presented did not play out and we had additional obligations 10, 15 years down the line, could we not also raise taxes at that point?
 Well, that's a legal question. Actually, I don't see anything that would prevent it. A kid might want to weigh in on it. When you say we could raise taxes, you're talking about we the citizens of Fayetteville who initially taxed themselves half a mil for both police and fire. So that we've talked to the pension boards.
 In the past, for the last several years, talking about the fact that they had the right to go to the citizens if they felt like that's what they wanted to do and if they would be successful. They would certainly not have to go all the way to a one mill. In 2001, the property taxes had been escalating so quickly that Amendment 59 was violated because, and it required that the millage actually be rolled back to .4 mills. That's why it's .4 instead of .5.
 If the pension boards would go to the voters and ask just simply to have that tenth of a mill back, that would increase their millage by 25%, which is a pretty substantial amount and would go a long way toward making their fund more solvent, even though at this late date with the amount that has—
 dwindled in their pension plans, probably not enough at that point to actually completely save them. And in fact the latest report from our accounting department shows that their market value of their assets is under 3.6 million. I will note that looking at the amount of millage, about half of the millage, about $250,000 of the millage hadn't been paid yet, which I assume will be paid in this quarter.
 So that it is closer to $4 million, but it is certainly, I think, by accounting standards, below $4 million right now. Thank you. I want to rephrase my question so that I can be very clear about what I'm asking. To me, we've got a couple of decisions. One of those, based on the options Paul laid out, is we could keep the fund local.
 and fix it if the people raise taxes by some amount. Maybe it's not all the way to a mil, whatever that amount is. Or we could consolidate it into lot fee. And my question is, if we were to consolidate it into lot fee, raising taxes to fix a future problem is not off the table.
 That's something I'd have to research. I don't know why it would be off the table, but when we're talking about millions of dollars and raising taxes, it's not something I want to answer on the spur of the moment at a city council meeting. I do not think that it would be off. I think if the citizens wanted to tax themselves more to do this, that they probably have that power. They've had that power for many years, and I think that they will continue to have that
 I still haven't made up my mind, but I want to explain my thoughts and what I'm getting at with these questions before we take public comment. And that's this, you know, I'm sure the rest of the Council feels the same way that this is a very difficult decision given the stakes. You know, I was impressed and I concur with Alderman Latour's statement at our special meeting that we have a moral obligation to fund these pensions. It's something that speaks to me. It's something that speaks to my heart. I think it's true. What I'm struggling with is a couple of things.
 You know, the fact, and this is water under the bridge, so maybe this is just for historical reference, but you know, the fact is that we have conflicting opinions about whether or not we can reduce benefits. And I don't, I'm not concerned about the pensioners' benefits to themselves. I think that's at a commensurate level with our current employees. It's at around 90%. That's fine with me. I think that's appropriate. I understand that the spousal benefits after death are a little unusual and may go a long way to fixing the problem.
 But what I'm pointing out here is that the enabling legislation that was proposed by Representative Whitaker and then opposed by our own pension board, to me, it's—if I was being cynical, I would say they are playing an all-or-nothing game and trying to paint us into a corner on this decision. I don't like being cynical. But the tactician in me putting myself in their shoes might consider that game.
 And I think that's where we're at today. All or nothing. Now, that said, I am not particularly concerned that the actuarial predictions we were shown at the special meeting are too risky. I think there's an acceptable level of risk there. You know, we were told that if they only earned 7%, we'd be okay. So there's that assumption.
 We were also told that we had to earn 3% on property tax revenue. We had to appreciate 3%. This is going to work out. I am maybe more than my fellow council members, maybe more than my fellow citizens, more bullish about property tax than the average person. That's because I see Northwest Arkansas continuing to grow, continue to play a competitive game on the national stage in terms of bringing new residents to the region.
 I also don't see us really annexing more land. There are a variety of other factors that I think are going to make property taxes appreciate more quickly than they have historically. So, you know, all that's to say that I'm not too concerned about the risk. I think there's an acceptable level of risk in the actuarial projections if we were to consolidate. But here is what is really organizing all of my thoughts. This conversation is only about the fire pension. We've got a police pension that's almost in the same boat.
 and whatever decision we make today is going to strike a precedent for the decision we have to make about the police pension. I don't know if that's... I think it's going to happen in the next five years. It might happen within the next one year or two years. If we decide today we're not going to consolidate, we're going to ask the citizens to raise taxes, we're going to be back doing that again for the pension board, for the police pension. We decide we're going to consolidate today, we're going to be back doing that again for the police pension. We're going to have the same conversation.
 So to me that's organizing my thoughts. I think if we're going to solve this, we have to solve it for both of them today, at least in theory. So, again, you know, I haven't made up my mind. I don't like the all or nothing position we've been put in. I, you know, would prefer to strike a deal with the pension board and say, look, you know, we understand there's a legal risk if you reduce your spousal benefits.
 But you know what, I, you know, personally, maybe some of the other council members can comment on it, maybe some of the pensioners can comment on this. If you guys were to say today, we'll vote to reduce our spousal benefits, you know what, I'll, I'd be a lot more inclined to vote to consolidate and to share that legal risk with you.
 to go to court with you, to argue Kit's opinion that you have the authority to do so with you, to be on your team like that. But as it stands, I don't perceive that we are on the same team because there's been this all-or-nothing game with the enabling legislation. So all that's to say, you know, I haven't made up my mind. All this water under the bridge, you know, is for the most part moot.
 and I don't really perceive the, I perceive there's an acceptable level of risk in the actuarial projections, but I sure do wish we could come to some kind of middle ground on this before we were forced to make a decision. Anybody else? Yes, John. Tuesday night, I expressed a sentiment that I think is shared by most people on this city council. Let me start off by saying
 Our personnel and police personnel put their lives on the line every day. When they get on that truck, when they get in those cars. And I want to say from this councilman, I appreciate that. What gives me concern about our deal is I don't like writing blank checks. If we send this to Loppe, someone else is going to dictate to our city how much money we have to send them.
 And that's the big unknown. We don't know what that is. It's hard for us to commit to $150,000, $200,000, $350,000. We don't know what it is. It's a blank check. And just think about your own personal lives. You wouldn't want to write a blank check, would you, if you didn't know if the funds were going to be there? That's what gives me pause in this debate. Something we all need to recognize, whether we send it to LOPI or we keep it and we finance it ourselves through our city budget,
 The money's all coming from the Fayetteville taxpayers, one way or another. That's why I like the idea, if it's legally permissible, to go directly to the people of Fayetteville and let them vote on it. One way or the other, no matter which option we take, it's coming from the people of Fayetteville. I like the direct vote because that educates. That doesn't hide the truth. It tells the people what's going on.
 and you would be free to make your case to the people of Fayetteville, just like I've been making. We appreciate the risk you take with your lives. We appreciate the service you've provided to our families, to our children. You're part of the reason Fayetteville grows, because people feel safe, because we have good fire and good police protection. It seems like you'd have a fairly easy case to make with the public. Now, I know taxes are not popular with anyone,
 Later in this agenda, we'll be talking about some other taxes. But that's the most honest way I can think to do this. Let the people decide, because ultimately, the people of Fayetteville are going to pay for this one way or the other. If we go to court and a judge rules that we owe it to you, it's still coming from the people of Fayetteville. Lofty's not going to take on these liabilities without a commitment from us to pay the difference, or they would be foolish to do so. I don't want you to interpret...
 My inability or my hesitation to write a blank check as I'm not supporting the fire retirees. We do support you. We care about you. We don't want to leave anyone hanging on a limb somewhere. But then we have this other tension in our decision process that says we're writing a blank check. And that's what really bothers me.
 In a recent newspaper article, my position was characterized as Latour would give the firemen whatever they want no matter what the cost is. I thought that was a gross exaggeration. I want to support the firemen, but I can't write a blank job. And that's what going to Loppe represents in my mind. You see the problem? That's why we're all hesitant. That's why we're in a dilemma. That's why we feel pressure. Being up here tonight is not easy. We want to do it all, but we don't have the wherewithal to do it all.
 Our budget has to give somewhere. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. All right, now we take some public comment. Everybody gets one. Turn it to microphone. Keep your remarks addressed to me. Don't engage council member or any member of the public. Stay on topic. Now I would ask the council, from my point of view, that we not vote this up or down tonight.
 We have another meeting 22nd and David Clark will be here. Did I not hear that from someone? Pete, come on up to the microphone, please. Introduce yourself. Thank you, Mayor. My name is Pete Rogan.
 Is the next council meeting scheduled for the 20th or the 22nd? 22nd, right? No, 20th. Sorry, sorry, sorry. 14 days. Anyway, long about in there somewhere. David Clark, the director of the Arkansas Pension Review Board and
 He's also the director of LOPFI. He could not be with us tonight. He is at a consolidation meeting in Camden, Arkansas, but he said he could be here on the 20th. And I know you've got a busy schedule tonight, and I don't want to take up any more of your time, so if we can do whatever we need to do to send this to the 20th meeting and I can give you my remarks. It just stays where it is, and then it automatically goes to the 20th meeting.
 You're going to be here until midnight. I'll let you hear me next week. We're going to be here a while this evening, yes. I didn't intend to vote on it tonight. Well, I didn't think you would. You sure can, Matthew. I did want to ask one question. I was wondering if there was a member of the audience, maybe a member of the review board who was present at the committee meetings where the enabling legislation was discussed? I was there, yes.
 And was the city attorney's account right that you opposed the legislation? Yes, but I want to clarify one thing. I was not there as a pension board member. I was asked to be there and make a presentation by the president of the Arkansas Professional Firefighters, the position that I formerly held. Can I ask why you opposed the legislation? I was asked to speak against it, the legislation. The first thing is, is no one wants to reduce benefits.
 I do not want to be in a position, and I've held all along, that the liability of the fund is held with the city. The city is required to carry the unfunded liability on its books. That's a gas beat. Is that not right, Paul? Yes. The liability is carried on the books by the city of Fayetteville. The mayor and the city clerk, the mayor is named in state statute as chairman. Mm-hmm.
 so can i ask you um in your official role as a member of the pension board is that your position yes it is thank you appreciate it yes sir i've got a question for the for the city attorney so if we do carry the liability for the fund but we but then we don't have the authority to regulate benefits is that correct
 Well, you know, I'm not going to comment on the accounting rules for Gatsby that requires us to have it on the books. That's not the same thing, in my opinion, as legal liability. The legal liability argument is based on the fact that
 there's an argument that well they have a pension and it's established by the state and therefore you can't end it even though you don't have any power as a city to control it which I found out when I was on the council and tried to do something about it
 When I read the statute, you have to read the entire statute. One of the sections of the statute says what happens if it runs out of money? That says the benefits will be prorated until they're exhausted that year and then you wait to the next year for the millage to come in. It says nothing about the city having to make up and pay anybody.
 So, I don't believe that there is liability regardless of what might be on the city books for accounting purposes. That's not, in my opinion, the same thing as legal liability. That is my opinion. And I've not, actually the Attorney General I think was asked about that, but I wouldn't care anyway. The key is, is what a court would say and I would think that if they do run out of money, they probably will sue us and then we'll find out. Thank you.
 Okay, Paul, you want to address the game? I absolutely would. As a certified public accountant, this is something I'm more comfortable of talking about. Our auditors require us to book it because the criteria is a reasonable possibility that we would be responsible, therefore we book it.
 That does not mean that there is an absolute liability. They cannot make that determination. They have to say there's a reasonable possibility that we could, in fact, be responsible of that. Because of that, because most of your approaches are conservative, they require you to book it. Mayor. Yes, John. Thank you.
 To speak to your point, Paul, there was a little company down in Houston called Enron, and they were real fond of taking their liabilities and putting it on other entities' books to kind of hide things. So our accounting profession today is really concerned about that issue. So they go maybe too far this direction to say book every conceivable liability just so it will be there. It's full disclosure. It doesn't legally mean that we're liable, but it's just a conservative way to present it.
 just in case we're liable. It's just a very conservative approach to accounting, and that's all since Enron and WorldCom, and we're living under something called Sorbanes-Oxley, which I know you regular people don't care about that stuff, but we CPAs have to live under that, and that's what it's doing. Okay. Anyone else in the public like to address us on this? Okay. We're going to hold this for a couple of weeks, and we'll be back. Well, we're not going to hold it. It'll just be left automatically on the first reading kit. Okay.
 And we'll come back the 20th and away we go again. All right? Okay. I'm going to move on to the next item, which is the consent agenda. Number one on the consent agenda, approval of the September 15, 2015 City Council meeting merits. Number two.
 A resolution authorized acceptance of a 2015 Justice Assistance Grant Local Solicitation Award in the amount of $72,774, of which $29,576 will be used by the Federal Police Department with $28,943 to be disbursed to the City of Springdale.
 and $14,255 to Washington County and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 50% matching grant award from the 2015 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program in the amount of $6,056 for the replacement of body armor vests for federal police officers and to approve a budget adjustment. Number four,
 A resolution to approve federal police department policies, 1.1.1. Law enforcement role 1.2.3. Vice-base profiling prohibited 1.3.4.
 Less lethal weapons and defense tactics, 12.1.1. Organizational structure, functions, and direction, 12.2.1. Policy procedures and rules development and review procedures, 22.2.8. Military activations, 25.1. Grievous procedures, 33.1. Training, 35.1.1. Performance evaluations, personnel early warning system, 41.2.5.
 Missing persons, 41.2.7. Department response to mentally ill subjects, 41.3.5. Grooming and uniform requirements, 42.1.1. Criminal investigations, 44.1.1. Juvenile operations and 84.1.1. Property management acquired and in custody. Now for number five.
 A resolution to award bid number 15-48 and to authorize a contract with Lyons Pump Mechanical Incorporated in the amount of $78,950 plus applicable taxes to rebuild seven gearboxes at the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Plant. Number six, a resolution to approve change order number one to the contract with Blue Green LLC in the total amount of $58,269.06.
 to fund the sales tax for ozone equipment necessary for the project and increase the blue and green LLCs warranty bond from one year to two years and to adopt budget adjustments.
 Number seven, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a hydro convection oven from Trimark Strategic Equipment Corporation in the amount of $21,848.40 plus applicable taxes pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Cooperative Purchasing Agreement for use by the Federal Senior Center.
 Number eight, a resolution to approve task order number four with Garver LLC in the amount of $27,500 for design, bidding and construction oversight services for the Drakefield Airport Roof Rehabilitation Project. Number nine, a resolution to approve change order number one to the contract with Highlight Airfield Services LLC in the amount of $8,895 to increase the quantities of airfield pavement markings to be rehabilitated.
 10. A resolution to approve a one-year video services contract with Washington County in the amount of $750 per month for the City's Media Services Division to record, telecast, stream, and archive meetings of the Washington County Quorum Court and certain committees and to approve a .25 full-time equivalent position increase. 11. A resolution to approve a utility relocation agreement with...
 AEP SWEPCO for utility relocations as part of the O-Wire
 Road Highway 45 Intersection Improvements Project. The total amount to be paid by the City of Fed will not exceed $46,718.86. I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. The motion is second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. Under unfinished business, number one.
 An ordinance submitting Title 15 Unified Development Code of the City of Fayetteville to amend chapters 161, 164, and 172 to modify the bulk and area regulations to encourage small lot single-family and two-family infill and multi-family zoning districts and to include minimum design standards for this type of development. Jeremy, do you have anything new on that?
 We do. This is an amended ordinance that we originally presented to you back in August. It was tabled at that time to this meeting, and so we wanted to present some changes that we have for you tonight. I'll go ahead and go over the full agenda item, but we do have an amended ordinance and exhibit within your packet.
 This particular code amendment would offer a new zoning district within our current list of zoning districts. It's called RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. It's a high density single family zone that would allow for increased options for developing smaller homes and smaller lots in appropriate locations.
 As you all know, we've added several new zoning districts over the last several years, neighborhood services, neighborhood conservation, RSF8, and those have continued to increase options for developing smaller homes.
 Flexibility and mixed use and commercial development has also been provided with adoption of form-based codes. However, we have not updated our multifamily zoning districts in quite some time, actually several decades. So this is two parts, and one is to update those multifamily zones to allow for, in the
 increased ability and opportunity for single-family development. As an example, in our RMF 40, which is a multifamily zoning district, it allows both single-family and multifamily uses. You can develop a multifamily project up to 40 units per acre. However, based on the lot width and the lot area, you can only develop single-family to 7 units per acre.
 just because of those criteria. We're proposing some changes in our bulk and area requirements as well as our lot width, lot area requirements. Over the last several years we've seen a desire in the marketplace to build new smaller single family and two family developments within those multifamily zones. Oftentimes we're proposed with an option. We can, a developer will come to us and say we can develop three single family units here or
 but it's not allowed into the code, so we're gonna have to develop an apartment complex. And in certain cases within our older neighborhoods, it may be zoned multifamily, and that it's more appropriate to have a smaller scale urban single family home or a duplex rather than a larger multifamily complex. This would allow us to be able to do that in those instances.
 This item, as I mentioned, was discussed and tabled by the City Council in August to allow us to make some changes. Updated items in this proposal since the August meeting include what I mentioned, the RSF
 zoning district, which allows a flexible development pattern. Unlike some of our other zoning districts, it would allow for a property to be built with standard setbacks on either side or for a townhouse or a row house style development where a building's built on the property line on one side and then has a setback on the other.
 The Board of Adjustment mentioned actually after the meeting on Monday that they were fully supportive of this proposal. They oftentimes see variances for these very reasons. They can't support them legally because they don't meet the undue hardship findings that state statutes require even when there is a good project in front of them. So this, they believe, would alleviate that concern and allow for those types of projects.
 We would ask that the ordinance and the exhibits that have been presented in the packet be amended to reflect the latest draft for you tonight. Chair Jerry Cook What questions do we have for Chair May on this? Trustee Jerry Cook I would recommend they be amended before I actually read the ordinance. So once it's amended, then I would ask the motion be, the rules be suspended so I can read the title on it. Chair Jerry Cook Okay. So moved. Trustee Jerry Cook This is for the amendment. Is that correct? Chair Jerry Cook Yes. Trustee Jerry Cook Second. Chair Jerry Cook The motion is second for the amendment.
 Yes. Previously, I'd asked you to look at reducing the or eliminating the minimum lot widths. What was the rationale for keeping those? We looked at both neighborhood conservation and RSF-8, I believe is what you had mentioned. In order to essentially keep a zoning district intact that has a minimum zoning, there has to be some underlying lot area or lot width.
 Reducing those even further would actually increase the density of the underlying zoning such that those zones would then become much more dense than what they're zoned currently. So our proposal to alleviate that was simply to create this new zoning district with a much higher density so someone could come in and request this zoning and have a much more flexible higher density allowance within that zoning district.
 So as an example, neighborhood conservation, we originally looked at going into that. It currently allows for 40-foot lots, 4,000 square feet, and it's about 10 units per acre. If we reduce that to say 2,500 square feet, the density of the lot that results then is double the density, so it's no longer really a
 10 units per acre closer to 18 or 20 units per acre. So we felt like in addition, there are a lot of properties already zoned, RSF-8 and neighborhood conservation, and to change the density of those would really change
 potentially the flavor in the context of that particular neighborhood where one neighborhood it might be very appropriate to have a higher density it may not be in another and so creating a new district that then would be looked at and reviewed for that for that zoning and that density would be more appropriate approach in our opinion okay i guess what i was looking for is the ability to cluster developments in smaller land areas in order to preserve open space uh
 for wildlife habitat or stormwater infiltration or whatever. But I'm thinking about all the different smaller house types that are becoming more popular, and it just seems like these lot minimum widths seem quite large to do any kind of innovative housing types. And by doing that, we're ensuring that there's
 there's uniform pattern of development over a piece of property as opposed to a cluster and an open space. It doesn't really prevent that, and I think that's a common perception about zoning. These are really minimum standards, so this allows, still allows for a greater amount
 a great variety if a developer chooses to do so. And so it would allow, this is the minimum, the most dense for instance is what we put in the zoning code to a developer that wants to pursue that option however and have a larger lot size in certain areas, smaller cluster, smaller lots and then have open space, it certainly still allows for that option within any of these zoning districts and probably more so now in the multi-family.
 The multifamily zone districts have been very difficult to develop in except for a multifamily product because it has been so restrictive in terms of the setbacks, or not setbacks, but the bulk and area requirements, the lot area and lot width. This greatly reduces, sometimes halves, the lot area and lot width requirement to allow
 to once that property's invested in, have more flexibility to develop the product they're looking to develop as opposed to just here's another 12 unit complex with a parking lot in front of it. Well I think that this is a big improvement over what we've got, but I still think we do have work to do on it, but I'm willing to support it as is, it's the next step, so. Okay, any other comments on the amendment? All right, would the public like to address this on the amendment? You know the rules, Ron, so.
 Robert Sharp. I live on 4th Street. I just wanted to comment briefly on this amendments to the zoning ordinances. I appreciate the proactive nature of the planning staff doing this and updating the multifamily ordinances. As
 Jeremy Pate mentioned right now it's sort of skewed in favor of duplexes or apartment complexes and instead or Going to have with these new tools or it's Encourages compact single-family housing it encourages affordable development. That's sensible and It's something that the city can do to help make our town better at at no expense to the city coffers So it seems like an excellent
 change and I hope that everyone will vote in favor of it thank you okay anybody else want to address this on the amendment okay don't bring it back to the council any comments all right Sandra would you please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay now the ordinance as a whole
 Yeah, could you suspend the rules so we can go to the second reading on this?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. In Ordinance of Amending Title 15 Unified Development Code of the City of Fayetteville to amend Chapters 161, 164, and 172 to modify the bulk and area regulations to encourage small lot single family and two family infill in multifamily zoning districts and to include minimum design standards for this type of development.
 We will suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Frey. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. An ordinance amending Title 15 Unified Development Code of the City of Fayetteville to amend Chapters 161, 164, and 172 to modify the bulk and area regulations to encourage small lot single family and two family infill
 in multifamily zoning districts and to include minimum design standards for this type of development. Any final comments from the Council? Mr. Mayor? Yes? If I may interrupt real quickly. I believe Mr. Williams read the original ordinance title as opposed to the amended. I just want to confirm that we're adopting the correct amendment. Okay. That's what I had listed here on my... You got the same thing I got. That's why I got a little confused too.
 The draft amendment is on page 414 in the packet. 414? That's okay. That's way down. Okay. So? Let me get that and read the proper title. It references the RSF 18 district in the actual title of the ordinance. It was about 150 pages away. Page 414 on that item. Four of 14. Four of 14. Oh, four of 14. Four of 14. Okay. I think it might go in there.
 There's draft. Anybody watch the game Saturday? Does it say draft on it, Jeremy? It does. It says draft. It says draft. Okay. Let's go back and look at that and see if that's the one. Okay. The one I see that says draft on page 257 of 753 is an ordinance amending Title 15 Unified Development Code of the City of Fayetteville to amend chapters 161, 164, and 172 to modify existing bulk and area regulations. Is that the right one? Yes.
 It is and it goes on to say to encourage small lot single family and two family infill in multi-family zoning districts to permit zero lot line development. That one. Yeah, I see that. And to modify existing Vulcan area regulations to encourage small lot single family and two family infill in multi-family zoning districts and the new part is to permit zero lot line development in certain zoning districts to create the RSF 18 zoning district and to include minimum design standards for this type of development.
 Is that the title? That is the title on page, on mine, 257 of 753. Well, then do we need to go through the second and third readings? I'll let that be the second reading. Okay. We'll go to the third. I have a motion to say we'll go to the third and final reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Well, we already had a motion. All righty then. Do you want to do it again? Yeah, let's do it again. Yeah, let's do it again. It seems we're doing a lot of things again. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes.
 Yes. Okay. And ordinance amending Title 15 Unified Development Code of the City of Fayetteville to amend Chapters 161, 164, and 172 to modify existing bulk and area regulations to encourage small lot, single family, and two family infill in multifamily zoning districts, to permit zero lot line development in certain zoning districts, to create the RSF 18 zoning district, and to include minimum design standards for this type of development.
 Okay. Yes, you may. Well, I'm definitely going to vote for this, but I want to talk about what happens after we vote for this. I'm presuming that it seems like there's a lot of support for it. You know, there are a lot of people in the community that have been intimately involved in a national reform of zoning codes and that have done a lot of good.
 to bring about change on a national scale towards zoning codes. And Fayetteville participated in that trend, starting with our downtown master plan and the codes that came about from that. You know, there's always a but. You know, this ordinance is a good ordinance, but we should not mistake it for a solution to many of the underlying problems in our code. RSF 18 fills an important gap, but it doesn't fill all of the gaps.
 In fact, it leaves some very big ones still wide open, particularly whenever we start looking at land uses outside of residential. And if we were to wade into the details of lot widths on a designation by designation basis, from RSF4 through RSF8 through all the RMFs, reasonable people can certainly disagree about how those should be constructed.
 And what I want to impress upon all of us, especially those of us up here on the dice, is that this ordinance isn't perfect by any means. In fact, it's far from perfect. And while it's a good ordinance and makes our existing unified development code better, it needs to be tweaked, and we need to be cognizant of that going forward. It does not benchmark well against
 the best zoning codes across the nation anymore, like it did when we first started this process after the Downtown Master Plan. Other cities have leapfrogged us in the way they write these codes and the way they amend these codes and are offering far more certainty to their development community, especially the traditional small-scale development community than we do, while at the same time
 maintaining their protections for existing neighborhoods like our codes are intended to do so I Don't want to waste our time by pontificating about this much but I do want to impress upon you that this is a an ordinance that makes our code better not an ordinance that fixes a
 the problems with our code. So let's be open-minded about what we might do in the future and you know in my opinion I think staff should continue to be at least as aggressive as they have been with this and probably much more so. Okay. Okay. I think I'm a little remiss. I should have taken some public comment on this new ordinance. So is there anybody who would like to address this from the public before final vote of the council?
 aubrey shepherd mr mayor i was looking at my laptop following the agenda that was online this afternoon when i saved it and that last part that was just read i think is was not in there and i think you should hold this for another meeting 18 units per acre or 18 lots per acre which is it
 I didn't even understand what. Well, to clarify, actually, the ordinance that looked like it was, the original ordinance was there and then several pages further along in the agenda after another memo from the planning department, this ordinance was in there, it's stamped draft. And so if you look in the agenda about six or seven pages down into this item and you will see...
 That other ordinance, and that's why I think the council has seen the other ordinance, the one that you amended to. Could we clarify for the public at home and hear what exactly that said since it wasn't? The question about the 18, yes. This would be creating a new zoning district.
 No property in the City of Fayetteville would have this zoning district. They would have to come before the council and request it. It would be called RSF18. It's a single family zoning district up to 18 units per acre, units or lots, whichever. It's a single family type zoning district. It would allow for someone to request that in appropriate locations where a dense development pattern is desired.
 We have a lot of zoning districts that are much more dense than 18 units per acre, but this would be the most dense single-family zoning district. So what would be the benefit of these 18 units on one acre? Would it be also is there no space between the buildings? Is that part of what you're saying? May I address others? Let Jeremy address it, then, sir, you can.
 Generally, these are more of an urban style development pattern.
 uh... built in small lots though there would be a uh... what it's on zero row house style you'd have a house built on a zero lot lines of one side of the house is on one side of the lot and there's the open space between the two minimum of ten feet between uh... between the the two homes and it's a very urban uh... development pattern that in a lot of wages don't exist in in payable yes uh... and
 the code does also outline that the um the unit cannot occupy over 50 percent of the lot area so you have at least 50 percent open space but where i see this being a benefit is um where we have say large tracts of land um that a developer would like to uh
 Zone to get you know say an average of four units per acre But what we could do instead is pick the less environmentally sensitive areas and zone it at a higher density And then zone the more environmentally sensitive areas at a look at maybe residential agriculture or something so that we're clustering Development in some areas while leaving more open space and others So I think it gives us that tool to be more precise in how we zone things I
 Well, thank you for the explanation. I just can't imagine how it would be more efficient or logical than an 18-unit apartment building, which would allow even more green space around it. And, you know, this is ludicrous. If we're really going to be a sustainable city, we're going to have more soil left in place and less paving done.
 and houses built above the ground so water can soak in beneath them and flow beneath them if need be i see this is highly premature i think there might be a lot of people in town interested in what these will be like in theory before you you guys pass it that's i'm sure there are places that have lots of these but our land here both the steep hillsides and the
 The prairie that surrounds them is mostly pretty darn delicate soil and vegetation. So that's why I question anything. I was shocked when we started allowing six or eight units per acre. And you can see some of those, they have no actual green space. When I say actual green space, I mean original soil with native plants possibly growing there. They have to add some soil.
 We've got these places right down the hill from here where the whole lot had its soil exchanged for red dirt. And the water that flows downhill from the springs that are all across our city goes under those buildings. And people ask questions like, well, how come when we drill down to put in our foundation, the hole fills up with water? It's there. And you get down on the flat land near the stream,
 There's more of it under those places. In many places, it's karst underground, which means that they're not necessarily going to be stable there forever and that they may be prone to sinkhole. We don't have a complete study of all the places people want to buy and build, and we trust their engineers to tell them we can build here.
 And you see lots of failures, a lot of lawsuits over these pieces of property built where they end up flooding or the foundations won't hold, even though they put a lot of concrete into the ground. So anyway, this was just kind of a surprise to me. I hadn't even thought of this ahead of time. Okay. Thank you.
 Is there anyone? Oh, I'm sorry, Mark, you wanted to say something. Well, I just wanted to kind of respond to that in the way I looked at it because I have the same concerns you do. Currently, there is the possibility for a multifamily construction at this type of density. And so I look at this as the possibility for homeownership that's more affordable. And also, it is going to allow us to conserve more of the...
 actually more of the green space since 50% of the land area has to be green space as it's developed. So whenever I looked at this, we're offering a more urban opportunity with density. We need density so we can get to our transportation goals. We're allowing the infill that we have said is necessary as we develop our urban center.
 Then we're also allowing the opportunity for individuals to have home ownership, which is the American dream. I think Matthew hit it so directly. We have a lot to work on our code. We're looking at being progressive. We're looking at economic development and where we're going to go with our economic development. One of my biggest concerns is going through the code and making it more comprehensive, more diverse.
 more easily understood by those individuals that want to develop. And to have this diversity, we're going to have to go in and offer more opportunities for different styles and different densities. So this, to me, is moving one step forward to reach those goals that I think is important as we're moving economically towards a more urban environment, whether
 an individual accepts that is going to happen or not, at least it's going to give us the opportunity. There's not a high density zone like this currently, so it's going to have to be reviewed very carefully before we rezone. And I think if I have anything to say, and I think we all think about this earnestly, whenever we talk about rezoning, it's probably one of the toughest decisions that we make on city council because it is rezoning and it has an impact in the future.
 This does give us the opportunity to be more diverse, and it also is going to give us a step closer to that goal that we have for infill development that's responsible, and then it's going to give the opportunity for more affordable housing ownership, rather than living in a multi-family
 complex where you don't have ownership and therefore you don't have personal liability on the property that you're building on.
 Step one and Aubrey I listen I agree with you totally as we're seeing this high density development, and we're seeing the impact of runoff the management of stormwater the Management of the watershed the high velocity that we get with the high density development as it's running off into the watershed It all has to be managed responsibly but I see this as a step of
 towards a solution in managing this. So hopefully as we step forward and look at developing more comprehensive unified development code, we're going to exactly approach those concerns that you've brought forward to us tonight and I appreciate that a lot, thanks. Any other public comment on this? Okay, gonna bring it back to the council. We're on the third and final reading this. Everybody good? All right.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? LeTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay, number two.
 In Ordinance to Amend Section 172.05, the Unified Development Code to remove minimum parking standards for non-residential uses. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Well, Chair. I'm sorry, Mayor. Would you please repeat that? Third and final reading. What are we voting on? The parking standards. Right. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Headey. Yes. Tinnop. Yes. Okay. In Ordinance of Man, Section 172.05, Unified Development Code to Remove Minimum Parking Standards for Non-Residential Uses. Chairman. Mayor, as mentioned at the agenda session,
 We do have an amendment for your consideration. The ordinance read tonight by Mr. Williams for the third time includes staff's original proposed amendment which removes parking standards or requirements for non-residential development.
 um anywhere within the city uh... there is also a staff provided a memo with some information uh... that also provides another exhibit that you could look at it as a compromise position uh... to hopefully address what the city attorney uh... expressed his concern about uh... essentially this would this would still remove the the uh...
 the parking requirements, it would just do so in a different way. There would still be several methods to achieve the reduced off-street parking for both non-residential and residential uses. Those include proximity to transit stops, additional motorcycle, scooter, and bicycle parking, proximity to on-street parking spaces, and utilizing shared parking between mixed uses. We would also allow, propose in that the
 potential amendment to allow further reductions without limit for non-residential development after analyzing the availability of other parking the needs associated with development
 any potential adverse impacts to surrounding neighborhoods or properties, proximity to alternative transportation, and really any other relevant considerations associated with the development plan. This reduction could be made administratively. The final decision could be made by the planning division without seeking a variance. If that decision did not suit the developer or applicant, they could then proceed to ask the planning commission to vary it further.
 Increases or reductions in excess of what would be permitted can also be considered as a variance by the Planning Commission.
 So we provided you both of those options. What's currently read is what the Planning Commission originally voted upon. Staff would support either one of those options. Ultimately, they both meet the intent of trying to reduce the need for or demand for required parking when we believe the current requirements are not necessarily based on actual needs for nonresidential development purposes.
 So, first we need to look at an amendment if the Council wishes to do that, correct? Okay. And the amendment would be let the staff decide whether to use a variance for the parking spaces, basically, instead of it being a unified ordinance, correct? That's correct. So, Exhibit A would show in your packet currently shows, a revised Exhibit A would show that you would still utilize the baseline parking ratios.
 But in the last section, section E, it would allow for further administrative reductions based on availability of public or shared private parking, potential adverse impacts on that parking or neighborhood neighborhoods.
 proximity to alternative transportation, multi-use trails, any other relevant considerations. We also added a particular consideration should be given to redevelopment, where there's an adaptive reuse of an existing structure, preservation of historic structures, accessory outdoor uses, low impact development techniques, or replacement of the footprint of an existing structure. So those are the items we added in this potential amendment for your consideration. And I would move that we move forward as published with this amendment.
 Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Okay. Okay. Let's get started. All right. Matthew, I believe you had. Sure. And then Sarah. We need a second before we discuss. Well, if we're going to vote tonight, I'm not able to support the amendment. And here's the reason why. You know, I think this proposal goes to the heart of something that we need to be sensitive to in Fayetteville, which is certainty in the development process, especially in small-scale development processes. Small-scale development is really a...
 Our city was built, you know, before we had a zoning code, it was the retired, the neighbor at the end of the street, the otherwise underemployed who built our city increment by increment. And for those folks who have to do most of their planning on the cheap, who don't have the wherewithal to spend a quarter million dollars in pursuit costs,
 As they design and redesign a project, we need to provide certainty within the code as to what they can expect. And this does not do that. I understand the city attorney's concern that we may be removing the ability of a future city council to reinstitute these requirements, but I am personally not concerned with it. I fundamentally believe that the lenders
 And to a lesser extent, but still important extent, the developers, I don't even like to use that word here because we're really talking about something at a scale that is so small. A developer doesn't really do it. It connotes something that is in some minds sinister. You know, the small town builders, if they go to the bank and they say, I want to build a neighborhood corner store.
 And I don't have any parking spaces provided for it, except for what's already on the street. You know the first question the lending officer is going to ask? Justify it. Tell me why you can succeed with this development without any parking spaces. I'm trying my hand at some small-scale development. I haven't brought this proposal to the city yet, but we're going to bring a townhouse proposal. Well, it is in front of city planning staff now, and
 I've got to be the most radical if I'm going to adopt the term developer in the city. We're even exceeding the minimum requirements that are on the books. The reason is because we know we have to in the market or the development won't succeed, won't be viable. Our lender knows that too. We went round and round with our likely lenders because they thought we needed more parking than what we're requiring, planning to build.
 even though we're in excess of what is required. And again, I've got to be the most radical person trying this in the city. So, you know, I'm not concerned that future councils may not be able to reinstitute minimums because I think this is one area of the market that is actually efficient, the provision of commercial parking. And I think we should signal to small-scale developers, really the whole community, that we...
 you get to make that decision with your team, which is far more risk averse than us. I mean, we don't even have liability at the city for this. You know, we've got sovereign immunity on these points. But the lenders and the small-scale builders are really putting their savings on the line to do this. So anyway, I think it's a fundamental point
 I think reasonable people can disagree about it and that's fine. It's my opinion. If we do vote to amend this as has been moved, I would also suggest that we send it back to the Planning Commission to consider because this is an approach that they did not see and as it stands, they had a very strong consensus in support of the original proposal.
 Okay. Yes, Sarah. I would agree with Alderman Petty in the sense that I support the original proposal and not the amendment. I worry that the amendment puts too much responsibility on the part of our planning staff and
 especially in decisions where you know parking spaces are money and to have a staff member being responsible for such direct impacts on the cost of development I think is risky and it opens us up to allegations of favoritism or impropriety well I don't believe that our office would do that but it certainly opens us up to those allegations and potentially having to defend ourselves I would I
 if it is such a concern that we maintain some ability to regulate parking I would be in favor of reducing the requirement to one space per property if that would achieve the same result but ultimately I think we need to keep our development code simple and we need to make approval quick I think about if I were to go and potentially invest in a piece of property for development you know it need you need to be able to
 within a reasonable degree of accuracy, predict how many units you can fit on that lot or what use units you're allowed. And this whole idea of having to go back and forth with planning staff, potentially taking it to the planning commission, that just adds a lot of time and energy and effort that people may not be willing to invest when they're considering small-scale development. So I really strongly support the original unamended proposal.
 I think we had a second to the amendment anyway. Alan did. Well, the only reason that I did offer the amendment is I am concerned that we're throwing the baby out with the bathwater by moving forward rapidly. I think that there needs to be more review. I think that Alderman Marsh and Alderman Petty have very, very valid points of view, which I think that we're going to get to, but to think that it would be irreversible.
 and we're looking at, I think, a change that is, it's a big change. I guess I'm approaching it with a more cautionary point of view. And so that's why I would offer this. I'm not passionate about it, except in the fact that we did get the advice from our city attorney that there's no turning back if we don't have something
 as a fail-safe measure. I don't like the fact that it goes to an administrative review to the city staff, but I don't know what the option would be otherwise. We have a lot of things that are reviewed by city staff. I just wanted to explain why I supported the amendment is because this to me is a leap, a very large leap, and I don't want to move forward without the opportunity of taking a step at a time with some caution.
 Justin and then Matt. Yeah, I agree with Alderman, just about every point that Alderman Petty made and Marsh as well. And I wouldn't be supportive of the amendment, but I would be supportive of sending any anything back to Planning for review so that they can debate it. But I like the original much more than an amended one. Not for any particular reason other than I don't like adding more power to the City staff
 telling business people how much parking they need and how successful they can be at their business. I think we leave that to the business owners for the most part. So I wouldn't be in favor of the amendment, but I would be in favor of planning looking at this again if we wanted to send it back down there. Chair Greg Musil. Matthew and then Alan and John, did you have your hand up? No. Chair Greg Musil. Okay. Mr. I'll wait. Chair Greg Musil. Okay. Mr. Yeah.
 The sun must have risen in the West today. We're getting agreement. The marketplace is very capable of allocating scarce goods and resources, such as parking places, across a great nation, across a state, across a city. People will do what's in their best interest, not just because their banker says it, but that's a good fail-safe because bankers don't want to lend money on losing propositions. If no customers can get there...
 How's the business going to survive? Or if it's difficult for customers to get there, how will the business survive and repay the loan? It's a fail-safe. But even if someone had the financial wherewithal to build the building by themselves without a banker, they still don't want to put $300,000 into a building that's going to be a losing proposition. Nobody wants to do that. So the market provides ample incentives to have a reasonable number of parking places.
 And I view the amendment as taking a step backwards, saying, well, we don't really know if the market can really work in this situation. And I think it can. That's why I would vote for the original but not the amended version, much like many have already expressed on this council. Okay. Anybody else? Mr. Mayor, since this was my proposal, maybe I should explain why I presented this. Sure.
 There is such a thing called the tragedy of the commons. That means when you have a part of something that you don't own but it's in common with everybody else, you will overuse that until it is exhausted. And parking can be like that. We're not just talking about small businesses here. I mean, I think this says every business, every non-residential thing, whether it be large or small. And so if the city council wants to try to
 more protective small businesses, I guess this could be somewhat changed to try to do that. But I grew up in Fayetteville and I can tell you that in the 1960s and 70s, the square was suffering terribly. It was suffering because of lack of parking.
 because the people that built the businesses there didn't build extra parking when they came in. A lot of this because it was established a long, long time ago before cars were so preeminent. But the square was not able to recover
 until these parking lots that you see around the square were in fact built some by the Parking authority that where they tax themselves some by the city That was one of the reasons that the town center was built So we could have a parking deck on the square to help take care of that problem and rejuvenate the square and it worked So we have had parking problems in Fayette before requiring great efforts to solve and
 What concerns me is that we have a lot of mixed-use zoning now, where you have existing homes in neighborhoods, but you could have a restaurant. Now, if somebody decides, I'm going to put a restaurant in this house, and I'm not going to provide any parking because they can just park in my neighbor's streets. They can park up and down this street, and, you know—
 It's going to make me money because I'm going to save a lot of money not putting the parking lot in, not putting anything in there. And yet what they're doing is inflicting their parking problems on their neighborhood. Maybe this won't happen. But if it does happen and the city council, the future city council, responds to neighbors saying, help us. You are flooding our streets. You're taking away our parking. When I come home from work, I can't park.
 So to prevent that from happening, I think it makes a little bit of sense for a planning department to look at the situation. Is there enough parking around there to handle this proposed business or not? And if there's not, then maybe they should have some parking required. If after a few years with this variance procedure where the planning department has not required any parking, if it hadn't caused any problems,
 Well, then, you know, you could go ahead and take it away and you'd be fairly safe that you're not going to ever need to reinstitute it. But if there are is a big neighborhood uproar in the future because people that are doing it on the cheap that are using up the commons of parking for their own private businesses because they can make more money that way, then the city council in the future will have its hands tied by this city council. And you cannot do that in the future because to do that, you'd be.
 violating the Personal Property Protection Act because you'd be taking more than 20% of somebody's value of their property if you required them to put a parking lot in. So I just think it's a very dangerous thing. You're closing the door and locking it against any future regulation if you pass the original proposal. Yes, Matt. Thank you, Mayor. Couple of things. First, I wanna talk about what's gone unspoken so far which is how we got our parking minimums in the first place.
 To verify, I'll ask Jeremy, were those based on any kind of a local survey? No, they were not. Do we know actually where we got the numbers? No, most of the parking standards you look at across the country are very similar. The charts that you see in our ordinance are very similar to many other cities across the country and the reason is primarily because they're all based on a handful of studies that have been conducted across the nation.
 I ask that because these parking defaults have been pretty thoroughly debunked by contemporary research. They have no bearing whatsoever on the actual use that occurs within the building. You can just look at them and ask yourself, how do we know that every 300 square feet of retail space requires one parking spot? Let's look at Dixon Street itself.
 A thousand square feet means every retail space down there requires one parking spot. Three parking spots, whereas a traditional main street is served only by its on-street spaces right from the building because they share spaces. And it's that sharing attitude that I think speaks directly to this notion of the tragedy of the commons. We can talk about tragedy of the commons in terms of parking, but it's far more accurate to talk about tragedy of the commons in terms of our gross land area. And right now we have about three parking spaces in the city for every car.
 That's not unusual across the country. Three parking spaces for every car. Whether somebody's parked there or not, that space is being used. It's land that is being used for parking, just the provisioning of parking, whether or not a car is there. And there's obviously higher and better uses.
 The tax revenue, just from our selfish city coffers standpoint, on a parking space is pretty close to zero. It's close to undeveloped. We just had a conversation about how we need to game our property tax appreciation over time for our pension funds. This is part of that problem.
 Absolutely a part of this problem. How we use our land, how our land is divided up among uses is the core of the property tax appreciation conundrum that we face with our pension funds, along with the rest of our budget. When we talk about the Tragedy of the Commons, I think we need to be very clear that we're focused on the gestalt, on the totality of our land use, not simply on parking.
 Obviously I wasn't here in the 60s or the 70s, but I do think that the notion that the square was failing simply from parking could stand some critique.
 From the 50s to the 80s, Fayetteville grew its land area through annexation at a rate of three times its population growth. It means we were acquiring land three times faster than we were historically, without the population growth to justify it. And that also is very typical across the nation in cities. And what we call that now...
 in contemporary conversation is sprawl, right? We grew our land area so much faster than our population grew, we became spread out, we became stretched, we became stretched thin. That's sprawl.
 And it's not cars who pay the bills on the square or at any other business. It's people. And there are two ways today to get people there is to make it an attractive destination so that people want to drive to it. That's one way. That's the way we've been doing it. That's the sprawl way. The second way is to intensify housing so that people are there all the time.
 That's the difference between three parking spaces per car and less than that per car. That's the difference between having a parking space downtown or a home downtown, if we had to choose. I think it's very important that we understand all this in the context that Fayetteville grew historically when these parking minimums were instituted in an environment that is much different than what we have today.
 the number of miles people drive per year is actually decreasing as people choose to live in more downtown and more walkable environments. Some of that is demographic, most of it is just based on market, the market changes. So all this is to say, we live in a different time now, we might be harkening back to a more traditional time, when people like to live next to where they wanted to spend their time.
 We can't keep, you know, we have this tendency to think of transportation of cities as being on this very easy to understand trajectory, you know. We used to walk, we had streetcar neighborhoods, and the car was invented, and what comes next? Flying cars, teleportation, that's going to solve our city. But it's not. We have to change the policies. And we have to acknowledge that the way we deal with parking, the way we deal with autos is...
 has been, frankly, an experiment, a generational experiment that started in the 50s. And now we're seeing the ramifications of it. We're seeing depressed property tax revenue because of it. We're seeing an overabundance of land provisioned for parking because of it. And that's preventing all kinds of other things. One of the things it impacts is affordability. Now, Fayetteville, Northwest Arkansas in general, if we just look at it on a housing basis, is affordable.
 eminently affordable. We have study after study that shows on a housing basis we're very affordable. But when you start to look at the totality again you see it's a different picture. The Northwest Arkansas Council in 2010 commissioned a study looking at our transportation costs, specifically our housing and transportation costs because they wanted to understand affordability in Northwest Arkansas as to what it really means to cost to live here.
 And when you look at a housing and transportation basis, we're not affordable at all. The average home here spends far in excess of the national average on transportation than other households across the country, even though our homes are cheaper. And that reflects what we did over the last three to four decades where we instituted a drive till you qualify housing scenario.
 And in response to that, we instituted these parking minimums and we insisted on them because our commercial spaces were isolated from our homes, from our neighborhoods, and the only way for people to get there was to drive to them. If we want to fix that, we have to adopt policies like this proposal. We have to allow commercial spaces to reintegrate back into the neighborhoods they once occupied.
 I didn't grow up in this time, but I can remember going to my grandmother's house and her asking me to walk down to the end of the street to buy a gallon of milk. I can't do that today. I wager almost nobody in this room can do that today. And that used to be the way every neighborhood was built. And none of those corner stores had a parking lot out in front of them that met the minimum standards we have today. It just didn't. So all that is to say, you know,
 There's a saying that, you know, in theory, there's no difference between theory and practice, but in practice, you know, there really might be. So we are taking a leap of faith. I understand that. You know, but I would offer this sole comfort to those other council members who are hesitant about adopting the original full proposal. We may not be able to reinstitute the parking minimums we have today if we abolish them, as our city attorney has advised us.
 but what hasn't been stated is that we can reinstitute them up to the limits of the state law he's citing which is we could reinstitute them up to 20 so if it turns out we miss the target so much that we have to reinstitute something our options aren't gone we can still re-up by 20 yes more okay i'm just going to take a an advocacy point of view to our historical neighborhoods and
 Darn it. I was here in the 60s when I saw everyone flee from the square. My dad worked part-time at Montgomery Wards, and it was an anchor at Evelyn Hills, the most beautiful shopping center in the United States. That's what they said. They did. They said that. And so I guess I have a little bit of a different point of view. And I see Susan Hall out there. She would know, right? You were here then.
 I have to look at our neighborhoods that somehow need to be protected. We do have a parking crisis in some of our neighborhoods. It's evident as we get higher density that people are not getting rid of their cars. It's evident. Parking is a very emotional issue, so by offering an amendment that I think is reasonable,
 Again, I want to reiterate, in a year or so, we might want to visit this again and throw it out, but I don't want to move forward so rapidly that we don't have the opportunity to evaluate the impact until it's too late.
 I guess it might come down to this passionate treatise of new urbanism that's offered by Alderman Petty because I really enjoy that picture of walking down to a corner store and getting a gallon of milk. I was raised where you could do that. But it didn't work. Is it going to work in the future? I don't know. But I know it didn't work. So I'm looking at just some mechanism, how minor it may be. We might need to adjust it.
 to allow us not to take this giant leap forward that we might regret at some point in the future. It is based on my personal experience at the growth in Fayetteville. One thing that is heartbreaking in Fayetteville, to answer Alderman Petty's point of view, is the craziness that you look at empty parking lots
 which was uh let's see i can look at parking lots at evelyn hills crazy wasn't crazy at the time there was a time that it was filled completely you can go to fiesta square it was developed by walmart who depended on a large volume of individuals to come and shop now it's empty and it's crisis and i don't like that you can look at the parking lot at marvin's down on 15th street it's a crazy waste of land it needs to be redeveloped oh that was a walmart too
 So there is a delicate balance of looking at historical experience that I've seen in our city and that's why I am offering some cautionary step. If we need to take this back to be reviewed, I'm all for that, but I just, listen, parking is probably the biggest complaint that any alderman sees in an area
 where there isn't any. We see it around Wilson Park all the time because of the number of individuals that are coming into the university and stuff. You get protective of that little parking area in your little location because you're coming home from work and you want a place to park.
 Darn it, I do not know the perfect answer. I don't know the perfect answer. I don't have the numbers. Alderman Petty has a lot of answers that he throws out based on the theory of New Urbanism, and that is his job. He's done a lot of research on it, and I respect that. But I know from my personal experience that parking is emotional, also that you need parking in some instances,
 I also know that some people don't want to invest in parking because they want to push it off on their neighbor. That's based on my personal experience, not any treatise of theory or anything. Maybe the answer here is to go back to the drawing board and look at a step that will protect us that is not as dramatic as the original step.
 In my opinion, that is not as dramatic as the original that was offered here without an amendment, my point of view. Okay, Alan. I'm glad you brought up some of those points, Mark. Parking in neighborhoods, that's one of the biggest complaints I get too as a representative for the area around the university.
 I get a complaint at least once a day. I'm not sure about some of the rest of the people on the council. It happens a lot around the university. It happens a lot around public schools and the neighborhoods they're situated in. It happens a lot around apartment buildings. And I would hate to see us make a hasty decision just to get more complaints because we have no parking standards for small businesses that go in and around neighborhoods.
 One of the points that was brought up was that there was an average number of parking spaces, three per car in the city of Fayetteville. Was that the statistic you had, Matt? Yes, that's a national statistic. Thank you. Well, taking that into account, Evelyn Hills and Fiesta Square are extreme contributors to that, and zoning's not done the same way anymore. So I don't think that we can just use that statistic in Fayetteville.
 Think that just paints with a little bit broad of a brush because we don't do our zoning that way anymore We have parking standards. We have a Planning Commission. We have a planning staff and they as they evaluate every New thing that's developed in the city of Fayetteville someone made the point that this pushed too much power and one staff member but I
 our codes are written that way so that when we put people in those positions, we should trust them. The city, the mayor of the city can hire and fire them and if he doesn't believe that they're acting appropriately, he can dismiss them. And one of the things that, you know, our planning director, I believe is his title, Andrew Garner, can do, you know, if a parcel is divided into two zoning categories, he could administratively extend one of those zoning categories 50 feet.
 along the entire parcel. You wanna talk about being able to handle money, that's money. That's the power to allow a multifamily unit to be placed on a parcel as opposed to a single family unit to be placed into a parcel. We put a lot of faith in our staff members and a lot of power there and we do that for a reason because we pay them to make good decisions. So I don't know that. I'm sorry. I don't know that there should be any problems with being cautious here.
 That's the advice our city attorney has given us and usually we listen to good advice from our city attorney who the city of Fayetteville is also elected to give us that advice. We can always take those next steps and that may be what we need to do six to eight months down the road. But what's the problem with waiting six to eight months to see how that works out? I just don't see the problem with that. This gives us an opportunity to try something and see how it works in Fayetteville.
 Like I mentioned before, not all national statistics and studies fit Fayetteville. Fayetteville's different. Fayetteville's unique. You know, if we eliminate the minimum parking standards, in a previous meeting we talked about residential parking districts, and those are wonderful.
 If we have the need to create residential parking districts, we also have the need to monitor those residential parking districts, and that costs money too. Our budget's tight. We're talking about increasing the mills just to pay for fire and police. Are we going to be talking about increasing the mills or sales tax to pay for residential parking districts to be monitored? I mean, we don't even have all of our staff positions filled right now.
 I mean, I would support sending the entire ordinance to ordinance review again or to planning commission to start over or reevaluate some of these elements, but I can't support this ordinance without the amendment. Ms. Nera. I think we need to pass the original ordinance and we need to pass it now, and we need to do that because we have a serious lack of
 affordable business space, small retail space in our downtown area, and affordable housing space. And the study that Matthew had referenced regarding the housing and transportation, that study had actually identified that residents of Northwest Arkansas are actually spending more on transportation than they are on housing.
 And that's really shameful. And when you look at, in terms of downtown infill development where you're requiring structured parking spaces, each space runs in the neighborhood of $20,000 to $40,000 of space. And when you are trying to create affordable business space, having those parking requirements creates a huge barrier to doing that.
 And also as far as the conflict between residential and any new potential parking problems that could arise as a result of this requirement, I want to remind us that we're not tampering with the residential requirements. So any new residential development still has a parking requirement. But, you know—
 Kit had talked to us about problems on the square. But I look at problems on 71 Business and the development type that has resulted as a result or has
 emerged as a result of some of these parking requirements, where you have large expanses of concrete, separating buildings, it's not walkable, it's really an ugly form of development. Whereas imagine if we'd had those parking standards when it was time to develop our square and we didn't actually have a square or Dixon Street, because those urban forms are not possible with the parking requirements that we have in place right now.
 I think in terms of affordable business space, before I moved here, I worked at a company that we had 35 employees, and they opted to move into an office space that only had four parking spaces.
 And they did that because it was cheaper for them to provide transit passes and a flex vehicle for the employees than to pay for the real estate costs of an office building that would have enough parking to meet all of the employees' needs. And it was fine. So I think that there are ways that people can adapt to the different environments.
 amount of parking spaces and that we should trust the market to decide this and additionally the environmental benefits of reducing parking area if you look at the stormwater runoff that comes off of large parking lots it's goes directly into our creeks and you know I think anything that we can do to reduce the surface area of parking lots is better for our environment and it's better for our water quality yes
 well mayor i'm i'm anxious to hear some public input but um you know i i just am am leaning real strongly to voting for the amendment strictly because i feel that it's not i feel that all of these wonderful things that are being mentioned great ideas but i can see those beginning to happen under the amendment is that correct
 With the amendment, yeah, it can go down to zero if that's what planning thinks is proper. Exactly. So I see no problem whatsoever in taking this first big step, which is indeed a big step. And so I'll be supporting that because I think that it doesn't make sense to take this movement all the way from to such an extreme in the first step. So I'll be supporting the amendment.
 Okay, any other comments from the council? Well, let's hear some public comment on the amendment. My name is Rob Sharp. I live on 4th Street. I appreciate the planning staff and the planning commission and the council taking up this important issue. I'd like to start by talking about the requirement in the building code for closets. Every house we design has closets to make sure we have plenty of storage space.
 but the shocking thing is the building code doesn't require closets it's just that people like closets and lenders like people to be happy and it's one of those things that we've decided that we're not going to demand that people build a certain size closet for each room in their house we're going to let people work it out on their own and we've come up with pretty good solutions and we don't need a staff member on the city to check the box that yes the closet is the correct size for the house and i think parking is much the same way people have a self-interest if if
 providing a storage space for their cars their number one priority than they will it will act that way and they'll make that choice and with support we've really got to really good development models in front of us one is the square and the others Evelyn Hills and the square it's a little bit tough to park its some you know it's not always convenient and you have to pay and you sometimes you have to walk three blocks sometimes you know on Sunday morning you have to park farther from church and you would like
 The other model is Evelyn Hills. You can always pull up right to the store, and it's very convenient. And in fact, if you built anything today, our laws would require that we build Evelyn Hills. But when people come in from out of town, we don't take them to Evelyn Hills and say, look at our most beautiful shopping center in the world. You know, even with the upgrades and the trees and everything, it's still just, you know, which is a more vibrant environment? Which is more valuable? Which do we care about? And we talk about...
 Let's be cautious and take a step. What we don't know is right now our system is set up where we can only build the Evelyn Hills of the world, and to do anything else requires a tremendous amount of variances and staff time, and I think that the amendment is certainly a good idea to –
 to try to work through it more slowly. But I do think that as a society, we should really be thinking about how much we want to dedicate to the car.
 It's interesting to know that right now the citizens of Fayetteville, there's no guarantee of a bed to sleep in or a roof over your head. But if you have a car, there's always a parking space for you. I think we should change those priorities, and I think that the car has ruled this town long enough. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this on the amendment? Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, thank you. My name is Lorraine O'Neill. I live at 3001 West Weddington, Apartment 82 here in Fayetteville. And I want to speak on the amendment. I think it should go through strictly as the original. I think the amendment should be scrapped. And I understand all of the problems that are associated with it. Deregulation is always a good thing.
 And the owner, whether they're located in a local neighborhood or whether they're located near an area where there's a lot of parking available. And I understand the problem of using your neighbors. And I have experienced this a couple of times here in Fayetteville where I patronized a business that had limited parking. And he cautioned us not to park over in his neighbor's lot because she was very upset about things like that.
 and another business that had such limited parking that there was no other choice. And I understand those issues, but there are always ways that people can work through those issues, and government can't solve all of our problems. And I always support deregulation. Deregulation is always a good thing. The government is involved entirely too much.
 in the lives of business and individuals, and it costs money. And if people can't solve their own problems, they'll move somewhere else. And I understand that we've got a really good public transportation system here. And there are neighborhoods where parking isn't needed. They take the bus, they get off, they do their shopping, they go eat lunch, whatever, they get back on, they go home.
 So I am totally in favor of deregulation, and I please encourage you to drop this amendment and pass it originally as it was stated. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, fine. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Now, we're working. Yes, Al. Oh, I thought you had another one.
 Now we're voting on the amendment everybody got that which is basically The staff would decide on a variance for the parking spaces instead of a ordinance Everybody got that. All right any final comments any final comments from the council on this? Okay, Sondra, would you please call the roll? Latour no Long yes gray. Yes Marsh. No Kenyon. Yes, Petty No
 Okay, the amendment fails. All right, now we're back to the original ordinance. Let's get started. Who wants to start first on the council? Call the vote. Well, I need to take some public comment on the ordinance as a whole, I believe. Is there any public comment on the ordinance as a whole that you all haven't already said or heard said? Yes, Mr. Sotter.
 Please. I can identify myself again if I need to, but thank you. I think this is a very good thing, and I applaud you for taking this step. And yes, please, pass this ordinance the way it is. Thank you. Okay. Any other public comment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We are on the third and final reading. Any final comments from the council? I do have a comment. Yes, Mark. I am going to support this. I've offered a cautionary tale.
 I've offered my opinion on the cautionary tale and I respect my colleagues that I serve with here that they did not pass the amendment. The bottom line is we do need to move forward. I wish that we could move forward with the caution that I have presented through the amendment but realizing that we do need to move forward, I will be supporting this.
 Anybody? Yes, I'm sorry, Al. Yes. So I heard two things during public comment that really made me think a little bit about what I see as a possibility after this happens. Lorraine pointed out that when the city gets involved, it costs money. Well, I see the city being involved in a lot more complaints going through our code enforcement department and that's going to cost money.
 And Rob made a great point about the city not requiring closets. Well, the thing is, if someone wants to use your closet, they have to ask permission. They can't just come into your house and use your closet.
 But if they want to use your parking in front of your home or in your neighborhood and take up all the street space, they don't have to ask permission. That's where the complaints are going to come in. That's where the money is going to be driven as far as cost to the city through the complaint process and code enforcement. I won't be supporting it in this form. I do respect everyone else on the council's opinion regarding that.
 Yes, Adele. Yes, I wanted the city attorney, if you would, to please explain again what would have to happen if, say, in a year we saw this to be a huge problem and lots of complaints, as Alan says. In order to pass a new regulation that could affect the value of someone's property when they want to build or create a restaurant or something like that.
 You would have to be extremely careful that any requirement that you would put on would not approach the 20% presumptive level that would result in what's called an illegal exaction
 where the city or inverse condemnation of their property, where you would be, and that's what it is, inverse condemnation, where you'd be basically condemning their property if you required as much as 20%. And, of course, that's up to what the jury would decide, not what we would decide. And so if you required more than one or two spaces, unless it's a giant lot,
 And a giant lot we're not going to have any problems with because I think they're going to have a parking lot. But what I'm thinking about is if someone wants to convert a house into a restaurant or some other sort of shop, and so they really don't have very much land, if you take almost any significant part of it and require it to be parking, then you're going to be approaching that 20% level of parking.
 very quickly and you know when we go into court on something like this the owner gets to testify about the value of his property and how much you're taking we can testify with with our experts and maybe it's not 20 percent and then it's up for the jury to decide the city is at a big disadvantage in a situation like that because we're looked at as as the mean regulator we know some people hate regulations of all type i think you shouldn't able to be able to regulate anything
 And so those sorts of people would be much more likely to say the city has gone too far and now we must pay this business owner in order to build a parking lot on his land. So we buy the parking lot. So that's what could happen. Hopefully that would not happen, but
 If the ordinance is passed tonight, then we have, I believe, really closed the door on any minimum parking centers for non-residential. I would probably caution you in the future if you thought about doing it.
 that I would recommend against it because it's very, very difficult to see how you could do that and avoid this 20% diminution in value of the owner's property. So you're basically making the final decision tonight, I think, at least as long as that state law is in effect. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. Yes, John. All due respect to our city attorney, I like letting people decide for themselves. Remember,
 I want people to have freedom of choice, even if they make the wrong choice. Over time, they'll learn what the right choice is, and they'll remediate their ways. If I build a building and decide I'm going to use the parking available in the neighborhood, over time, my customers will complain, I have to walk too far to get to your store or your CPA practice or your law firm, and I'll change that. I have a lot of confidence in people. I have less confidence in bureaucracies.
 large and small. Nobody has more incentive than the owner of that property to build it right and to build it good so that it will serve the public to the maximum extent possible. I have no qualms voting to deregulate this aspect of our Unified Development Code to let business people decide. And something that's bothered me since it was instituted in the downtown area,
 Alderman Long, you referred to it. Someone comes home and there's no parking place for their car on the city street. I'm not sure what gives that person a special claim to the city street that belongs to all of us. Maybe we should have minimum parking standards for residential property if they're having to park on the street. We do. Exactly. We do. So that shouldn't be a real big problem. But still, I don't like giving certain citizens preferential treatment of parking on the street over others. Okay.
 That doesn't look like equal protection under the law or I think we're taking public property for private use when we do that. I think there are problems with that process. Anyway, I strongly encourage the council to pass this and have confidence in your fellow man. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LaTierre? Yes. Long? No. Gray? No. Marsh? Yes.
 kenyon yes petty yes yes okay all right let's go to number three does anybody want to break before we go to number three or we want to keep plugging away all right let's get through yes we do only 19 in new business um an ordinance living at tax on real and personal property within the city limits
 The city of federal Arkansas for the year 2015 fixing rate there of at 2.3 meals for general fund operations point for meals for fireman's pension and relief fund point or meals for the policeman pension and relief fund and 1.0 mil for the federal public library and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County Arkansas. I will entertain a motion to second reading so moved.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Luttre. No. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. An ordinance levying a tax on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2015, fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for the general fund operations. Any other comments?
 0.4 mils for the fire pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the police pension relief fund, and 1 mil for the Fayetteville Public Library, and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County. All. Mayors, we've discussed before this is requesting that the council pass a levy of 4.1 mils for 2016. Thank you.
 0.4 mils for the old fire pension, 0.4 mils for the old police pension, 1 mil for the library, and 2.3 mils for the general fund. This represents a 1 mil increase for the general fund. As we have discussed before, I did a presentation on September 8th. We heard from the police and fire chief on September 15 about the need for additional personnel.
 Again, as we look at the general fund budget, I'm forecasting or recommending a $3 million increase between last year's budget and this year's budget. Key reason for that increase is approximately $1.5 million to add 23 currently unfunded positions to the payroll in 2016. Nineteen of those positions would be for police and fire. Eleven for fire, eight for the police.
 plus four other positions. In addition to that, in next year's budget, we need additional funds to pay the salary increases that you approved this year during the first quarter to all general fund and other employees, or other personnel in the city. In addition to that, we have insurance increases, we have additional pension increases,
 We have $100,000 in next year's budget for a salary survey, and I think we need that very desperately to make sure that we're competitive in the market because it's very, very costly for turnover. So the key increase is the additional 23 currently unfunded position plus other additional costs which are generally personnel related, and this would require some type of ongoing funding
 stream to fund those in the future. Remember this budget increase we talked about of three million dollars from thirty eight point one million dollars to in excess of forty one million dollars does not include a salary plan. Salary plan that traditionally is brought to you by the mayor next at the end of the first quarter next year in 2016, that again is something we'd have to look at funding.
 That is the reason we're requesting a one mill increase in the general fund levy for next year. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Mr. Mayor? I believe you have an amendment or two, don't you, John? Yes, Mr. Mayor. I'd like to offer one amendment. Okay. One amendment is this. The finance director will calculate the additional tax revenue raised by the millage increase set forth in this ordinance on an annual basis and report the same to the city council.
 This amount should be added incrementally to the budgeted amounts for police and fire departments in fiscal year 2016 and beyond, and not diverted to other budget uses or functions. What we're doing here, and I'd urge my colleagues to give me a second and let's discuss it. Is there a second on the issue? It looked like the city attorney had something material to add if I read his body language right. I don't want to get in the way of the council. Alan, there's been a...
 a motion to amend. Were you in here when? I could hear. OK. I will point out there are some problems with your proposed amendment from just a legal point of view.
 For example, when you talk about it must be budgeted for the police in the future and thereafter, this city council cannot buy into the hands of any future city council on what they're going to use the general operating millage for. You can't do it. It has to be enacted every year. The budget's enacted every year, and so this city council cannot tie the hands of future city councils.
 The other thing that I have done throughout my career as city attorney is try to make sure that the various branches of government do not step on each other's toes.
 so that the mayor doesn't step on your toes, but on the other hand, you don't place directives to city staff because the mayor is the chief executive officer and everybody must answer to him. This amendment seems to try to direct the finance director to do certain things, and I have consistently through many years discussed,
 tried to prevent city council from doing that and also try to prevent the mayor from sometimes impeding or encroaching upon a city council's prerogative you know it's there's a tension always not only here but in the
 the state and also at the national level where Congress and the President don't always stick with their own boundaries but in our separation of powers position but I think that this is one where certainly a request can be made to the mayor by the council and that has happened in the past but when there's been a proposal in the past that would direct the mayor or try to or direct a
 a director, a finance director or other person by the council, I've always said that I believe that probably is beyond the power of the council. Mr. Mayor, point of order. We're discussing an amendment that has not received a second. Yes. Okay. Okay, John. Let's stop and just kill it. I think you bring up a good point. Okay. Now, I will ask the council, is there a second to the amendment? That sounds like no to me, Mayor. Okay. There is no second to the amendment, so the amendment is passed.
 I apologize for commenting on that before there's a second. All right. John, you have a number two here. No. Well, I'm not going to make the number two. That was pointed out that this has to be reauthorized every year. Every year you look at it every year and you decide whether to do it. Exactly. What I'm trying to do with this amendment, just for the public at large, is we're selling this as a tax increase to fund police and fire. I'm just trying to get the council to commit to that's really what it's going to be spent on.
 One of my colleagues pointed out, and rightfully so, it would be a very politically dangerous thing to use a bait and switch technique here, where we say we're going to use it for police and fire, then as soon as we get the tax passed we fund something else, some other little pet project. And we would do so at our political peril. I agree. But humans have short memories, as the polls have shown us time and time again.
 A year or two down the road, this tax increase goes into the general fund, and it may or may not be spent on police and fire as it was originally pitched to us. Because our memories are so short, we won't recall it. I was just trying to ensure that the police and fire that we're trying to fund here are really the ones that get the money. I'm a little skeptical as to whether or not that money in the general fund will actually or anyone will even care two or three years down the road.
 Initially, I expect the money to go to the police and fire, but after the first year or two and the hullabaloo is all over, then we get back to business as normal. That money is available for whatever project we want, and I'm concerned about that. Let's see. Paul, you want to? Oh, I'm sorry. I want to. Just to borrow some words from Alderman Latour earlier, good fire and police protection are part of the reason that Fayetteville grows.
 With Fayetteville growing, I seriously doubt that the need for the fire and police that we're dedicating this money to will ever go away. I doubt that the millage would ever be used for something else because the cost of a police force is definitely not going to decrease over time. It's only going to increase. With Fayetteville growing, I think you were right with what you said earlier that fire and police protection, good fire and police protection, are part of the reason Fayetteville grows.
 I would like to make a couple of comments if I could, Mayor. Sixty percent of the general fund expenditures roughly are on police and fire. So I think that can show the Council and the Mayor's commitment to public safety. We're audited every year. Those numbers are in our annual audit on what we expand.
 Each and every year we come forward to the council to discuss budgeting. I think to attempt to tie the hands of a future council and what they may or may not decide, spend the funds on, I think that's really something that one can't be done and shouldn't be done. Each and every year this is always revisited and at any point in time council can look at this
 And if they feel that there is a need or not a need, they can always change the millage. So I guess that would be my only comments at that point in time, at this point in time. But I'll be happy to answer any questions. Any questions for Paul? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Who would like to be first? Mr. Mayor, thank you. My name is Lorraine O'Neil and I'm not currently a property owner, so I guess you could say I don't have a dog in this race.
 But I second Mr. Latour's concern, and I don't know if there is a way of stipulating that a millage increase be designated for a certain purpose, but I second his concern about that because over the many, many years that I was a homeowner, that was one of the things that I paid close attention to was any millage increase because it affected me directly, not that I begrudge it.
 the city employees from getting a raise or from any of the benefits because I think they do a commendable job. In just about everywhere that I've lived, I have seen nothing but good in those departments. But I do echo his concern about whether or not that it can be designated as a general fund revenue.
 appropriate for other uses than what it was originally intended. If there's any way to designate that specifically, that would be most helpful. Thank you. Would anyone else like to address this? I don't consider concern about that. I think all you folks and anybody else who gets elected to this board will be supporting keeping that in the budget. I would have one question if
 I think I probably listened and watched more of your meeting related to the Fire and Pension Board than anybody else in town who isn't involved. I know a lot of firefighters and police officers. But could somebody give us a simple statement about how much this will help pension funds, not the whole long thing? It won't do anything for the pension fund. It's not going to increase it?
 Currently, so that's still to put on 19 new fire and police personnel, correct Paul So it's still to be decided how we improve the pension funds another discussion. Thank you Peter Peter Thomas and Ward three I'm just curious if the city is growing and the tax base is increasing Why doesn't that at a given millage rate?
 rate allow for the growth of the police and fire departments? Paul, would you like to answer that? I'll be happy to. This has been asked before, and it's certainly a good question. We have to remember that the amount of dollars that we generate from property taxes is about $1.3 million. Yes, that does in fact grow, but that doesn't grow at a fast enough rate to take care of the increases in our needs.
 For example, in the last, since 2006 to 2014, entire property taxes collected were about $500,000. That's how much it grew in that period. So over time, it's not a large enough percentage of the general fund. The general fund's going to be $41 million next year.
 1.4, which is roughly the estimate we'll generate from the property taxes from one mill, is not large enough to generate enough of an increase to take care of the needs. Okay. Who else would like to address this on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I'd like to suspend the rules and move to second reading. Second. Third and final reading. Third and final reading, I'm sorry. Third and final reading.
 We have a motion to suspend rules and go to third and final. Soundridge, please call the roll. Lutere. No. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty.
 ordinance living attacks on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville Arkansas for the year 2015 fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mills for general fund operations point four mills for the firemen's pension relief fund point four mills for the policeman's pension relief and one mill for the Fayetteville Public Library and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County Arkansas okay final comments
 Well, I speak from the minority position. I tell people I'm the ranking minority member on this council, and I don't mind that. I've been controversial most of my life. For those of us, I've said this before and I'll say it again just for emphasis, for those of us with good jobs, with good educations, with college degrees, with professional degrees, this tax increase won't amount to a hill of beans worth of difference. We'll pay it and just blow and go. But my heart goes out, this is an emotional argument, to that young couple who just scraped together enough funds to get a down payment for their first house.
 And it's barely getting by and we're increasing their tax burden. It just seems to me that we could cut out maybe a new recycled truck or a new dump truck or the fourth or fifth road grader we purchased or something like that to fund what we need to fund here with our city, rather than increasing taxation on our citizens. I'll admit that my default position on a tax, an increase in tax, is no.
 It's a presumption I have in my mind, just like the presumption of innocence in a criminal trial. We're not saying the defendant is innocent. We're just saying we're presuming he's innocent. I'm not saying I won't vote for a tax increase. I'm just saying that's my presumption, and that presumption has to be overcome. I don't think we've overcome that with our arguments here. So I'll stand by my no vote. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Tom. Matthew. It was 2008.
 Before I was on the council, when I was getting pretty close attention, Mayor, you were there, so maybe it's 2009, you'll know better than me, but I think in 2008, the mayor at the time presented a budget that proposed raising the millage to cover the deficit. It wasn't a balanced budget. And the council was talking about rejecting it. And, of course, the council's role is not to simply reject it and send it back to the mayor.
 bring forward a new one, they have to amend it. It's just their responsibility after it's been proposed. And if I'm not mistaken, I think it was Alderman Bobby Farrell at the time said he had a solution. They were going to close the $300,000 budget deficit by not buying a fire truck. I think it was passed, the proposal. That would be correct. And so the budget was balanced in that manner. I don't know if it was him, but it was one of them and I can't remember which one. Well, so here's the issue. It only fixed the deficit for a year. Right.
 because the truck still had to be purchased. Even if you never purchased it again, you still had $300,000 worth of potential deficit to cover year over year as an ongoing expense solved by eliminating a one-time capital purchase. So I understand the questions and they're honest to goodness.
 The way they are rooted in an honest-to-goodness manner in concern for the way that we budget the money. But what I'm concerned about by these lines of suggestions is that they're dangerously close to crossing the line into post-truth politics. It is a fact that there are only two ways to pay for these staff increases.
 The first is to raise taxes in exactly the manner that's being proposed. It has to be paid for general fund revenue. It's state law. We have to find general fund revenue somewhere. The first option is to raise taxes exactly as they're proposed. The second option is to find an equivalent amount elsewhere in the budget and eliminate the program.
 So, it's our job as council to decide which option we're going to take. All we have from the mayor and his staff is a proposal. And if we want to be truthful about our options, then it's either raise taxes or we've had two weeks now, three weeks if you count times since the agenda session, to find more than a million dollars in other programs to just cut. Or we can not hire the police and fire. I guess there's a secret option three.
 So, you know, I say all this to, you know, a million dollars, it's a little more than that, is a lot to find in one program. And in most of our programs, if you were to spread that across, you would hamstring individual programs to the point where they wouldn't even be effective to keep around at all anymore. So my sense is, I mean, that's my reason for not bringing forward a cut. I can only presume it's the other council members' reasons for not bringing forward
 So, I'm left with the conclusion that if the only truthful conclusion is that if we need the police and fire, this is the option. And I think it's our obligation to simply be truthful about it. I think the public will agree with us if that's our approach. Anybody? Sarah?
 I would just like to point out that the average, or I'm sorry, the median home value in Fayetteville is about $160,000. So what this...
 impact of this tax would be is a little over $30 per year. And I just have to ask myself, would I be willing to pay $30 a year to make sure that the fire department could respond to me in less than five minutes? Or that the police would be able to respond to my home in less than five minutes? I think the answer to that question is yes. So I will be supporting it. Anybody else? Alan? I'll just say that
 You know, when your chief of police and your fire department chief both come to you and tell you that they need something, those are the things that you respond to first because we've never seen that happen since I've been on the council. That's only been two and a half years, but I've followed the city council for years before that. I've never seen either of those two people come to the council and ask for something to protect the citizens of Fayetteville.
 They haven't asked for an increase in the number of staff positions since 2006, I believe it was. Thank you. I just, not funding that seems preposterous to me for the very low cost. I know that it's a new, it's a tax increase and no one likes tax increases, but $2.50 a month is not a large tax burden for the outcome. So I will be supporting this.
 Anybody else? Yes, John. Just five months ago when we were discussing making a $50,000 grant to the Walton Arts Center, I brought up the fact that we had four or five unfunded and frozen positions on our police and fire department. Both chiefs appeared before us and said, we're making it just fine without those. We'll do it with overtime. It's cheaper than hiring new people, blah, blah, blah. Five months later, when we want a tax increase, they come back and tell us, oh, we need this. We need this.
 It looks a little bit manufactured, this need to accommodate this tax increase. That's why I'm skeptical. That's why I offered the amendment to guarantee that the money would go to what we're saying it's going to. I would feel better if we had a strong voice of commitment. It looks like we're going to pass this tax overwhelmingly. So I'd love to hear my fellow colleagues on this council say, I'm firmly committed to making sure this money goes to fire and police. I haven't heard that yet. I hope I do.
 Well, it would be an easy way to track it. If we put on 19 fire and policemen, then you know it's going to be going toward fire and police. If we don't, then you can come back and say you didn't put them on, Mayor, and we're going to hold you responsible. How about that, John? That's pretty reasonable. I'd still like to hear it verbalized. I just said it. Okay. Well—
 I want to clear a fact for the public watching this. Last year in the budget discussions in October, Alderman Long presented a request for a ninth beat to the city. And at that time we did have both chiefs.
 come forward and talk about the fact that we thought that we could continue it at the current levels. However, we were seeing a trend, but three months or six months don't make a trend. Right. And we wanted to see more time before we actually went to the citizens to ask for increases from their own pocketbooks, simply because we've been doing it through cuts.
 So I would say that option one has been looked at in terms of cutting programs or not scaling programs up since the very first discussion of this. We're now in the 13th additional month from the first discussion of this information, and we have 13 more months of upward trend brought to us by our chiefs.
 And so the commitment that was made to the council by the mayor and me as the chief of staff and Paul Becker as the finance director and Chief Tabor and Chief Dayringer was that when we believed that there would be a need, we would bring that need immediately to keep our word to the council as a part of that 2015 budget discussion. So the other item we talked about is that the...
 Council would need to do policy discussion changes and funding from the funds that we pay some of these other areas from. If we want to talk about the Walton Arts Center, it's parking fund revenues controlled by the Council where those funds go, which today are limited to parking. And so that wasn't a viable option for funding at the time or now until someone brings that forward as a discussion, which has not been done by the administration and would need to come from the Council.
 So I just want to make those points clear because we don't have the funding option talked about. We've been talking about this now going on 16 months after a six month trend up. So we actually have almost 19, I guess six and 16 would be 22 months of that trend now. And it is the first time since 2005 budget discussion when Mayor
 Jordan was an alderman at the time and I was also, was the last request from public safety from the chiefs publicly for headcount. So we've hit the 10-year threshold and a significant population change as the fastest growing municipality in the state of Arkansas during that period. Yes, Al. And I'd like to add to that because Alderwoman Adams and I did last year sponsor, cosponsor a resolution to ask the administration to study
 the impact of
 our growing population compared to our police force. When we looked at that, Fayetteville had a median crime rate and one of the lower number of police officers per capita out of the 10 largest peer cities in the state of Arkansas. The data wasn't there to support the increase at that time, but the police chief told me, and I know that he told our woman, Adam- I sent a letter to you all saying I would do that. Yes, through the city clerk, saying that if there was a time and after the data had been
 that you would do exactly what you're asking for now. So I appreciate you doing that because it shows that our police chief, our fire chief, and our administration keep public safety as their top priority. So thank you very much. You know, folks, there's few politicians that run on I'm going to raise your taxes platform. But there becomes a time when there's need.
 Now we studied this, and we made a commitment in a letter that I sent all of you. Now John, you were on the council then, but I did send a letter to all of you that we would be reviewing this. If there was a need did arise, I would bring it to you immediately. Now the police chief and the fire chief came in and said, we have a need. Now your priority one calls have gone up about 20% in the last year. Chief, you can correct me if I'm wrong. And your overall calls have gone up about 10% in the last year.
 Now we managed to get along without raising any taxes and make it happen, but the top priority of any administration is to keep a city safe. That's my job. Honestly, it's the job of the council as well. Now I don't like raising taxes anymore and I mean this guy sitting here will tell you I'm just not a real I like raising your taxes kind of elected official, but there comes a time where there's a need you have to keep city safe and I'm going to do my best to keep this city safe.
 Police chief, I meet with him every month. If they didn't need it, they wouldn't have asked. And if they hadn't asked, I wouldn't be asking. And that's what we're going to do. And I don't know what else to tell you. You either believe that or you don't believe it. That's up to you all. So you vote and vote well. Okay. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Luture. No. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. Thank you all.
 all right does anybody want to break yes it's 8 30 i need a break i'd like to call the city council meeting back to order uh let's see number one a new business we're there a resolution here we go now moving right along all right the resolution authorized the purchase of a
 Rotary lift system from nab holds of Bigsby, Oklahoma in the amount of forty five thousand nine hundred ninety dollars and eighty five cents Plus applicable taxes pursuant to a national joint powers alliance cooperative purchasing agreement for use by fleet operations stat The this four post lift is for the fleet operations division we have currently have one large lift in our shop and
 It's a parallelogram lift. I don't know if you all know about that, but it takes up the entire bay. It's either in use, which it is a lot. If it's not in use, the entire bay is almost useless. These lifts we're attempting to purchase will greatly benefit our operation. They're portable. They can be moved if we don't happen to need them. Our use has grown now, but we do need them quite a bit. And we can move them out of the way and still have operation. Thank you.
 Okay. What questions do you have for Jesse on this? I'd just like to make a motion to pass the resolution. Second. Okay. All right. What discussion do we have? Okay. Any public comments on this? See, now I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Okay.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 15-47 to authorize the purchase of a Peterbilt
 320 diesel truck with LaBrie and Whitkey. I hope I did that correctly. Super Duty front loader from Peterbilt of Fort Smith in the amount of $243,520 for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division. Yes, sir. This is a 2006 truck that has been needing replacement. It was scheduled for replacement in 2013.
 We now have basically used it up is still usable. It is a spare unit we need to get replaced and get a frontline unit out there where we can continue our services to the citizens. Okay, what questions we have Jesse on this is and these have gone through the crowd search and he's had gone to the equipment they have to have. Okay, tell me again why do we need this new is this a recycling truck. No, Sir, this is a
 Front load refuse truck. This picks up the containers at the businesses and the commercial accounts. How many of these trucks do we have right now? We have seven total. Okay, and they're wearing out? We rotate them throughout their life, so we keep newer units, and we don't replace them all at one time, so it's an ongoing process. Okay, thank you. It's been to the Equipment Committee. Yes. It was on the Equipment Committee anyway, I'm sorry. Myself, Matthew. Thank you.
 You and Matthew and I'm on the equipment committee. Did you have questions about it? I just asked. Okay. I mean, though, on the equipment committee. Okay. I don't remember what we discussed on the equipment committee, Mayor. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Do we have any public comment on it? I'll bring it back to the council. Move to pass the resolution. Second. I have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LaTour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. Number three, a resolution award bid number LSC 2015, an authorized contract benchmark construction in the amount of $37,000 for a kitchen rehabilitation project and a live source international using community development block grant funds. Yolanda?
 Good evening, Yolanda Fields, Community Resources Director. Do we have any questions on the project itself? What questions do we have for Yolanda on this? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes? I move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LaThera?
 Is that a no? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. Okay. Number four, a resolution to authorize the sale of approximately .7, thank you, Council, very much, 75 acres of city-owned real property located at 2648 Old Wire Road, Westfield,
 to Apple Seeds Incorporated for the amount of $200,000 and to approve a 20-year lease agreement with Apple Seeds Incorporated for approximately two acres on the north end of Gully Park for the purpose of operating a teaching farm. Connie. Good evening. Connie Edmundson, Bay of Bill Parks and Recreation Director.
 Last time I was here, you authorized for us to have a contract with Real Assets, Mark Brewer, to sell the two homes at Gully Park. And I'm real happy to say on the larger home, we received two bids. The highest bid was from Appleseeds for $200,000.
 and their bid or their offer was contingent upon receiving financing and inspection of the house, a lease agreement on two acres of Billy Park for a teaching farm, and also approval of conditional permit by the Planning Commission for operations of a limited business. Their mission is very similar to Parks and Recreation in that we want people to be active,
 and to be healthy in our community. In order to give them a 20 year lease, our city was looking at, as part of the consideration, for them to give our public free access to the teaching farms on Saturday mornings from 9 a.m. until noon during the growing season, which is March until October.
 and also to provide two free, at least two free, public garden educational workshops each year. So we believe this is a great partnership with a nonprofit that does promote our community to be healthy. And with me here tonight is Mary Thompson with Apple Seeds, and she's going to tell you just a little bit about Apple Seeds and what kind of partnership we can have with them. All right. How are you this evening? Good.
 Hi, great. I'm Mary Thompson. I'm one of the co-directors of Appleseeds. We are a non-profit. Our mission is to inspire healthy living through garden-based education. We currently have a teaching farm on college in the middle of town that serves over a thousand students each year. We host a variety of programs including field trips and farm-to-table programs. We grow organic produce that goes to the schools for the students to host their own farmers market stands at their own schools.
 and we host workshops and cooking classes. So these programs engage the students and encourage healthy eating habits at a young age. Establishing a teaching farm at Gully Park would allow Appleseeds to expand to reach more students and to be an educational resource for our community and all of Northwest Arkansas. Appleseeds' mission reinforces the city of Fayetteville's Be Active initiative by encouraging a healthy and active lifestyle.
 The teaching farm also supports the Parks and Recreation's mission for a diversified park system. This student-focused teaching farm is the only one of its kind in Northwest Arkansas. Our current teaching farm is beautiful evidence of our visionary planning and our high degree of attention placed on aesthetics. We would hope to do the same thing here at Gulley Park. We welcome the opportunity to reconnect our neighbors and families with where their food comes from and inspire the broader community to eat and live healthier.
 are there any questions about apple seeds in our project no but i think it's a great organization personally but anyway what what questions do we have marianne
 this you're naked yeah i don't have a question i just have a comment just when you just when you thought ward three couldn't get any better sorry that shameless plug was really for former alderman bobby farrell he would have loved that one um but uh honestly this is good for any part of the city but i absolutely think this is great and and i appreciate the effort and the creativity and use of this land in this way so thank you and uh thank you connie by the way for your hard work on this
 Thank you very much. Great partner. Let's see, where are we? We lost track. Any public comment on this? I'm going to bring it back to the council. I move you pass the resolution. Second. Motion is second to pass the resolution. Aubrey wanted to talk. Oh, I'm sorry, Aubrey. Where you at? Did you? Oh, sorry. I'm sorry. Apologize. No, I was slow to get up, Aubrey Shepard. This is part of what we're talking about when we say save the soil wherever it is in our city.
 any way we can, the way we construct things with low impact development and so forth. Because if they have some great teaching done out there and they produce food for people, that's great. But we want to encourage people to learn to do that themselves and still and have some land, part of their little lot, available to have a little bit of food growing. Thank you. Thank you, Aubrey. Okay, anybody else?
 Okay. Let's see. We're down to it, aren't we? Any final comments? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LeTour? No. Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. Number five, resolution authorizes sale of approximately .50 acres of city-owned real property located at 2634 Old Wire Road,
 to Brett, Michael, McGuire, and Kimberly, and McGuire for the amount of $111,500. Connie. Connie Edmonston. Again, Real Assets brought us not only one bid, but he had three offers that he received on the smaller home.
 The highest offer was the appraised value, which we think is really good. So I would recommend that you would approve for us to sell this home at this offer price of $111,500. Do you have any questions? We have questions for Connie. Okay. Where am I? I lost my place. All right. Is there any public comment on this?
 And we'll bring back to the council Motion second to pass the resolution any final comments to the council Sandra would you please call the roll? Yes Yes, right. Yes. Yes. Yes Okay, number six
 An ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of City Sales and Use Tax Capital Improvement Bond Series 2015. The purchase, finance, and portion of the cost of certain street improvements authorizing the execution and delivery...
 of a fourth supplemental trust indenture pursuant to which the bonds will be issued and secured, authorizing the execution and delivery of an official statement pursuant to which the bonds will be offered, authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement, providing for the sale of the bonds, authorizing the execution and delivery of a continuing disclosure agreement, and prescribing other matters related thereto. Kemp.
 Whereas the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas has previously determined that there is a great need for a source of revenue to finance the cost of various street improvements within the city, which is the 2015 project. And whereas the city is authorized and empowered under the provisions of the Constitution and laws of the State of Arkansas, including particularly Amendment 62 to the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, and Arkansas Code Annotated 14164-301, etc.
 which is the Local Government Bond Act, to issue and sell its capital improvement bonds to finance the cost of various capital improvements, such as those comprising the 2015 project. Which capital improvement bonds may be secured by and payable from the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax authorized by the Local Government Bond Act.
 And whereas, pursuant to the revisions of Ordinance Number 4891 of the City, adopted and approved on June 20th, 2006, which is the election ordinance,
 There are submitted to the qualified electors of the city for questions regarding the issuance of an aggregate of not to exceed $110 million in principal amount of capital improvement bonds pursuant to amendment 62 and the local government bond to finance a capital improvements described in the election ordinance.
 said bonds to be secured by a pledge and lean upon all the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax levied at the rate of one quarter of one percent pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act and all the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of three quarters of one percent pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act. Whereas at a special election held September 12, 2006,
 A majority of the qualified electors of the city voting on the questions approve the issuance of the capital improvement bonds in the principal amounts for each of the specific purposes set forth on the ballot and the corresponding levy of the quarter cent sales and three quarter cent sales, sales and use tax.
 and the pledge of receipts thereof to the payment of the capital improvement bonds. And whereas as authorized under the provisions of Amendment 62 and the Local Government Bond Act, and as approved by the qualified electors of the City, the City is now determined to issue and sell its Sales and Use Tax Capital Improvement Bonds Series 2015 in the aggregate principal amount of $9 million.
 in order to provide for funding of the 2015 project. Whereas as authorized by the provisions of the election ordinance, the City has previously made arrangements for the sale of bonds to Stevens Incorporated, Fayetteville, Arkansas, the underwriter, pursuant to the terms of a bond purchase agreement between the City and the underwriter, the bond purchase agreement, and substantially the form presented to and before this meeting. Now, therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 Under the authority of the Constitution and laws of the state of Arkansas including particularly amendment 62 of the Constitution state of Arkansas and the Local government bond act there's hereby authorized the issuance of bonds of the city to be designated as sales and use tax capital improvement bond series 2015 here and after the bonds the bond shall be issued in the original aggregate principal amount of nine million dollars and
 and shall mature not later than November 1, 2025, in the principal amounts and bearing the interest at the rate specified in the bond purchase agreement. The entire aggregate principal amount of the bonds hereby authorized shall be deemed to apply to the street project described in question three of the ballot. The average yield of the bonds as a whole shall not exceed 3.5%.
 The proceeds of the bonds will be utilized to finance the costs of the 2015 project, to establish a debt service reserve for the bonds, or to purchase a surety bond or debt service reserve insurance policy for reserve purposes if deemed economically beneficial.
 to pay a premium for bond insurance if deemed economically beneficial, and to pay printing, underwriting, legal, and other expenses incidental to the issuance of the bonds. The bond shall be used in the form and denominations, shall be dated, shall be numbered, shall mature, shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity, and shall contain such other terms, covenants,
 All is set forth in the fourth Supplemental Trust indenture submitted to this meeting.
 The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the bonds in one or more series, each series to be in substantially the form thereof contained in the fourth supplemental trust indenture submitted to this meeting, and the City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the bonds and to affix the seal of the City thereto, and the Mayor and City Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to cause the bonds to be accepted and authenticated by the Trustee.
 The Mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the Trustee, the Underwriter, and Kutoc Rock LLP Little Rock, Arkansas, who is Bound Council, in order to complete the bonds in substantially the form contained in the four supplemental trust indentures submitted to this meeting, which such changes shall be approved by such persons executing the bonds, their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval."
 Section 2 in order to pay the principal of an interest on the bonds as they mature or called for redemption Prior to maturity there is hereby pledged all of the receipts of the quarter cent sales and use tax and the three quarter cent sales And use tax levied by the election ordinance such pledge occurring to bond shall be made on a parity basis With the existing pledge of such receipts in favor of the city's 50 million dollar sales and use tax or capital
 Sales and use tax capital improvement bond series 2006a, the series 2006a bonds. The city's 14,340,000 sales and use tax capital improvement bond series 2007.
 The city's $11,250,000 sales and use tax capital improvement bonds series 2009. And the city's $22,750,000 sales and use tax capital improvement bonds series 2013. Okay.
 The levy and collection of the quarter cent sales and use tax and the three quarter cent sales and use tax shall commence on the dates provided in the Local Government Bond Act and shall continue until such times as the series 2006-08 bonds, series 2007 bonds, series 2009 bonds,
 Series 2013 bonds and the current bonds are no longer outstanding or sufficient funds are on deposit with the trustee to redeem the series 2006 a bonds series 2007 bonds series 2009 bonds series 2013 bonds and the bonds in full and
 The City covenants and agrees that all receipts from the quarter cent sales and use tax and the three quarter cent sales and use tax will be accounted for separately as special funds on the books of the City. And the receipts have said quarter cent sales and use tax and three quarter cent sales and use tax will be deposited and will be used solely as provided in the trusted denture as defined below.
 Section 3 to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which the bonds are to be executed authenticated Issued accepted held and secured the mayor's hereby authorized and directed to execute and acknowledge a fourth Supplemental trust indenture the fourth supplemental trust indenture by between the city and Simmons first trust company pine Bluff, Arkansas who is the trustee and
 and the city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to execute and acknowledge the fourth supplemental trust indenture and to affix the seal of the city thereto and the mayor and the city clerk are hereby authorized and directed to cause the fourth supplemental trust indenture to be accepted executed acknowledged by the trustee the fourth supplemental trust indenture supplements and amends the trust indenture and trust indenture dated as of november 1st 2006
 as previously amended by the first Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of October 1st, 2007, a second Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as November 1st, 2009, and a third Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of November 1st, 2013, each by and between the City and the Trustee. The original indenture, and collectively with the fourth Supplemental Trust Indenture, the Trust Indenture.
 The fourth supplemental trust indenture is hereby approved and substantially the form submitted to this meeting, including without limitation the provisions thereof pertaining to the pledge of the quarter cent sales and use tax receipts, the three quarter cent sales and use tax receipts, and the terms of the bonds.
 The Mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the Trustee, the Underwriter, and Bond Council in order to complete the fourth Supplemental Trust indenture in substance to the form submitted to this meeting with such changes as shall be approved by such persons executing the fourth Supplemental Trust indenture, their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval.
 Advice is given that a copy of the fourth supplemental trust indenture in substantially the form authorized to be executed is on file with the city clerk and is available for inspection by any interested person. Section 4. There is hereby authorized and approved a preliminary official statement of the city, including the cover page and appendices attached thereto relating to the bonds.
 The preliminary official statement is hereby deemed final by the City within the meaning of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15C2-12. The distribution of the preliminary official statement is hereby approved. The preliminary official statement, as amended to conform to the terms of the bond purchase agreement, including Exhibit A thereto, and with such other changes and amendments as are mutually agreed to by the City and the underwriter,
 is herein referred to as the official statement, and the mayor is hereby authorized to execute the official statement for and on behalf of the city. The official statement is hereby approved in substantially the form of the preliminary official statement submitted to this meeting.
 And the mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the trustee, the underwriter, and bond counsel in order to complete the official statement and substantially the form of the preliminary official statement submitted to this meeting. With such changes as shall be approved by such person, the mayor's execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval. Advice is given that a copy of the preliminary official statement is on file with the clerk and is available for inspection by any interested person. Section 5.
 In order to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which the bonds are to be sold to the underwriter, the Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute a bond purchase agreement on behalf of the City
 to be dated as of the date of this execution by and between the city and the underwriter and the bond purchase agreement is hereby approved in substantial form submitted to this meeting and the mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the underwriter and bond council in order to complete the bond purchase agreement and substantially the form submitted to this meeting with such changes outside as shall be approved by such persons executing the bond purchase agreement their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval
 Advice is given that a copy of the bond purchase agreement and substantially the form authorized to be executed is on file with the city clerk and is available for inspection by any interested person. Section 6.
 in order to provide for a continuing disclosure of certain financial and operating information with respect to the quarter cent sales and use tax and the three quarter cent sales and use tax in compliance with provisions of Rule 15C2-12 of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute a continuing disclosure agreement to be dated as of the date of its execution.
 Bind between the city and the trustee and the mayor's hereby authorized and directed to cause the continuing disclosure agreement to be executed by the trustee that can you continuing disclosure agreement is hereby approved and substantially the form submitted to this meeting and
 And the mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the trustee, the underwriter, and bond counsel in order to complete the continuing disclosure agreement in substantially the form submitted to this meeting with such changes as shall be approved by such persons executing the continuing disclosure agreement, their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval.
 Advice is given in a copy of the continuing disclosure agreement in substantially the form authorized be executed on file with city clerk and is Available for inspection by any interested person section 7 the trust indenture requires that a debt service reserve be funded in conjunction with the issuance of the bonds and
 The underwriter has proposed that the city consider the purchase of a surety bond or debt service reserve insurance policy with a portion of the proceeds of the bonds in order to fulfill such requirement.
 If deemed economically advantageous by the Mayor, upon the advice of the underwriter, the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute an insurance commitment and do any and all things necessary to accomplish the delivery of a surety bond or debt service reserve insurance policy with respect to the bonds. Section 8. In order to secure lower interest rates on the bonds.
 The underwriter has proposed that the City consider the purchase of a policy of bond insurance with a portion of the proceeds of the bonds, with which policy would guarantee the payment of the principal of an interest on the bonds when due. If deemed economically advantageous by the Mayor, upon the advice of the underwriter, the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute an insurance commitment to do any and all things necessary to accomplish the delivery of the bond insurance policy with respect to the bonds.
 Section 9 the mayor and city clerk for and on behalf of the city are hereby authorized and directed to do any and all things necessary to affect the issuance sale execution and delivery the bonds and to effect the execution and delivery of the fourth supplemental trust indenture the bond purchase agreement the official statement the continuing disclosure agreement and a tax regulatory agreement relating to the tax exemption of interest on the bonds is
 and to perform all of the obligations of the City under and pursuant thereto. The Mayor and the City Clerk are further authorized and directed for and on behalf of the City to execute all papers, documents, certificates, and other instruments that may be required for the carrying out of such authority or to evidence the exercise thereof.
 Section 10 as previously provided in the election ordinance Kutoc Rock LLP Little Rock Arkansas is hereby confirmed as bond council on behalf of the city in connection with the issuance and sale of the bonds section 11 revision of this ordinance are hereby declared to be severable and if any section phrase or provision shall for any reason be declared to be illegal or invalid in
 Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the section, phrases, or provisions of this ordinance. Section 12, all ordinances, resolutions, and parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Take it away, Paul.
 I don't know what to say after all that. Thank you for standing up that whole time. I thought you might leave the room while I was talking. 2006, there was a referendum. The voter authorized up to $110 million worth of bonds be issued, secured by a special sales tax of one penny. The projects were for the completion of the water and sewer plant, which has been done in various and sundry areas.
 Lines associated with that all that's been complete also provided for money for some trails that's been complete This is the this is the final amount authorized for road construction projects 59.9 million were Authorized this is the final nine million dollar increment for us to complete the road construction project pursuant to 2006 referendum what questions do we have? Okay
 Do we have any public comment on that? On any of this? We do have the Underwriter and Bond Council both here. And if there are any questions for Stevens Inc. or Kutoc Rock, we have their representatives here. Is there any questions?
 Okay. Mayor, I have a question, but I do want to publicly thank Dennis Hunt, Bo Biddle with Stevens, and Gordon Wilburn with Kutak Rock for helping us through these numerous bond issues, particularly this last phase of our transportation bond issue, and the advice and guidance that they've given city staff in this process. So we appreciate your guidance. Hear, hear. I agree. It's back to the council now. I move we go to the second reading. Second.
 Motion seconded, go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LaTierre? Yes. Long? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Heddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. An ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of the city's sales and use tax capital improvement bonds, series 2015. For the purposes of financing a portion of the cost of certain street improvements, the
 authorizing the execution and delivery of a forced supplemental trust indenture pursuant to which the bonds will be issued and secured, authorizing the execution and delivery of an official statement pursuant to which the bonds will be offered, authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement providing for the sale of the bonds, authorizing the execution and delivery of a continuing disclosure agreement, and prescribing other matters relating thereto.
 And may we go to the third and final reading? Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? LeTour? Yes. Long? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. An ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of the city's sales and use tax capital improvement bonds series 2015 for the purpose of financing a portion of the cost of certain street improvements
 authorizing the execution delivery of a forced supplemental trust indenture pursuant to which the bonds will be issued and secured, authorizing the execution delivery of an official statement pursuant to which the bonds will be offered, authorizing the execution delivery of a bond purchase agreement providing for the sale of the bonds, authorizing the execution delivery of a continuing disclosure agreement, and prescribing other matters relating thereto. And I would also like to echo the Chief of Staff's comments.
 Ever since I've been city attorney and and this has been the team that has worked with us We have had no problems with our bonds earlier bonds Issued both in the 80s and 90s were challenged and sometimes successfully So I'm very glad that we have a team that has been very conscientious and careful and we have avoided any of those problems which in the past it cost our taxpayers some considerable amount of money and
 Well done. Well done. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Lutere. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Yes.
 Okay. Thank you all. Number seven, a resolution to express the City Council's support of Theater Square and its intent to lease 0.8 acres of city property at the southeast corner of West and Spring as Theater Square's new permanent performance facility. Jeremy. The mayor and staff are pleased to...
 Present this proposal to the City Council or your consideration This would be a resolution of support and intent for theaters squared to utilize a city of able owned property It's point eight acres at the southeast corner of West Avenue and Spring Street as a new permanent home for their expanded theater and Authorizing the mayor to negotiate terms for a long-term lease or sale the property which ultimately would be brought back to you this next spring
 As most of you know, Theatre Squared is a non-profit professional theater. They offer currently around 220 year-round performances in our downtown arts district and in local schools. The only theater of this nature within a 150-mile radius. Theatre Squared offers broadly accessible ticket prices, many of which are subsidized for Fayetteville residents. Educational programs reaching 1,500 Fayetteville students at no cost.
 and also free tickets for clients of various nonprofit organizations within our city. It's a top-rated attraction for Fayetteville by TripAdvisor and has received recently recognition by the American Theater Wing, which is the founder of the Tony Awards, as one of the nation's ten best emerging theaters. Very proud to have Theater Squared called Fayetteville Home, and we're also pleased that they've grown in the last ten years as much as they've had before.
 The organization currently leases space from the Walton Arts Center and the Nadine Baum Studio just across the street from this proposed location. That's its primary performance area, but also has several satellite locations for storing equipment, for other supporting activities such as offices and things of that nature. Growth in the organization and within the region suggests that the capacity of Theater Squared has yet to be realized. The organization recently commissioned a study
 and it determined that their rapid and sustained growth over the past 10 years compels them to explore opportunities for an expanded and new permanent home significant infrastructure challenges operating constraints and immediate capacity issues emerge from that long-term facility study resulting in a new focus on building quote an intimate state-of-the-art permanent home we all want that home to be downtown fayetteville
 Theater Squared recently announced the award of a competitive Our Town grant from the National Endowment of the Arts in an amount of $100,000 to begin that design exploration process. The mayor supported Theater Squared in that grant application, and we would like to continue that support from the city council to the fullest extent possible.
 After reviewing several sites throughout the city to locate a new permanent home in downtown, Theater Square determined the property best situated to add the performance arts destination that is downtown Fayetteville is simply next door. Home to a parking lot that's been utilized as a construction staging and Wal-Mart Center staff parking for much of the past year.
 This property offers the size and the proximity to public parking, the Walton Arts Center, Dixon Street and other amenities that a downtown theater needs to thrive. With this item, Theater Squared is formally requesting that the city support their intent to begin a several month long design process on this property, identifying it as the preferred site for their new home.
 Without this initial commitment by the council, producing all the drawings and design packages on a site that isn't being seriously considered is too risky, and so we want to offer that support by this resolution. We would also authorize the mayor to enter into negotiations establishing the terms for a long-term lease or sale of the property to Theater Squared for that stated purpose. As I mentioned before, it would be our intent to bring back that agreement, a negotiated agreement in the spring of next year.
 Staff fully supports this endeavor. We believe the impact of an expanded, unique professional theater in our downtown can be a significant draw for tourism and economic development. In combination with the Walton Arts Center expansion and the amenities that downtown Fayetteville has to offer, this facility will add to the Northwest Arkansas region's arsenal of cultural amenities, thereby fueling tourism and spending in our economies.
 it does have a budget impact to the city this property was evaluated actually in 2012 as a possible location for the new parking deck it was discarded pretty early as too small for the size parking deck that we were looking looking for and for the better part of last year the property as i mentioned has been out of commission as a as a revenue stream for a parking lot
 It is currently serving as a staging area for parking deck construction, which will wrap up at the end of this month and Revenue part ready for revenue from that parking a lot like all public parking downtown is dedicated to paying back the bonds issued for deck construction so that's an issue that we've been discussing with our finance director and the mayor and we would bring back a proposal for you all with a negotiated lease
 another consideration is the city will want to condition a lease or sale agreement of the property upon theaters squared's ability to raise the necessary funding to actually construct a facility in the manner that's described so any lease that the mayor brings back to the city council will include include a provision to that effect
 I also wanted to mention, you may all have seen in the media recently, the Walton Family Foundation announced a program called Design Excellence, which funds the design of projects, both new projects, remodeled projects, landscape architecture type projects, wherein they fund design within this home region.
 Theater Squared was chosen as a pilot project and the Walton Family Foundation is very proud to call this one of their pilot projects for funding of design. So we feel like the nonprofit and foundation sectors are behind this project and the city wants to be a partner in that endeavor. So staff is fully in support of this request. So what do you think? I think it's very exciting.
 Motion to pass the resolution. Second. Well, we might want to hear from the Theater Square people. You might want to do some serious bragging here tonight. No, everybody. Good evening, Mr. Mayor, City Council.
 I just want to bring greetings from Martin and Bob and their... Can you introduce yourself? I'm sorry, my name is Jamie McGaugh, I'm the director of development for Theatre Squared. I want to bring greetings and also the regrets from Martin Miller, who's our executive director, and Bob Ford, who is our artistic director. They are actually currently in New York with our consultants on this project, exploring spaces that those consultants have been responsible for in New York.
 We've had already an amazing kickoff to our season. We're operating at 94% capacity currently, and we're still several years away from our new facility. So over the last 10 years, we've had over 100,000 people come to downtown Fayetteville for these shows, and we're just, we're tremendously excited about the opportunity to work with the city of Fayetteville on this project.
 I just wanted to, well, first say how excited I am, you know, thank you for pursuing this. I wanted to call this particular trend to the mind of the council between the parking deck, that's $5 million, the Walton Arts Center itself is $20 million, the library, $25 to $50 million, somewhere in there, they haven't decided, Theater Squared in the neighborhood of $15 to $20 million. There is a lot of investment lining up for this.
 school avenue west avenue area area and you know i think it's something that we need to keep in mind that uh you know
 The downtown in this manner, I think because of these kinds of investments really is the heartbeat of the city. It's really the soul of the city. And you know, over the next few years as organizations like Theater Squared and the library ramp up their efforts, I think so too should we be prepared to match their efforts with the attendant infrastructure improvements that will be necessary to make sure they're as successful as they should be. Thank you, Matthew. Anybody else?
 Okay, thank you all very much. Thank you. I look forward to working with you. We've been working for a while together. So, um, I look forward to finishing this up and getting that permanent home down there for you. I look forward to it. Thank you. Okay. Well, we got here. We have a motion in second already. We did. Yes, I guess we do. Are we taking public comment? Yes. Okay. And motion in second. Any final comments from the council?
 sondra would you please call the robin yes long yes gray yes marsh yes kenyan yes okay thank you all very much all right number eight an ordinance for his own that property described was zoning petition
 15-5179 for approximately 1.39 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. And RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. Okay.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification following the described property from RSF4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to neighborhood conservation, and residential single family, 8 units per acre, as shown on Exhibits A and B attached to or made a part hereof.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby accepts the bill of assurance From the applicant lies upon his bill of assurance and making this rezoning decision this bill of assurance is attached as exhibit C to this ordinance and Section 3 that City Council city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1
 Okay. Jeremy. This is a property located between Hornsby Drive and Smith Avenue, located directly across the street west of University of Arkansas football stadium and practice facilities. The university owns the properties to the east and the south, and the properties to the west are developed with privately owned single-family homes. This request is to rezone about half an acre to RSF 8, which is residential single-family eight units per acre.
 and also about three quarters of an acre to neighborhood conservation, which is also a single family zoning district. The applicant intends to resubdivide the property and build new homes on the property, single family homes, and has submitted a bill of assurance restricting the use of the properties to single family detached units only. In our opinion, the zoning request is compatible with surrounding land uses, which are single family homes to the north and west, and university owned parking and sports facilities to the east.
 We believe it's compatible with our future land use plan, which designates this site as a residential neighborhood area. And these districts allow for more diversity within for lot size and density. Planning Commission voted nine to zero in favor of the request, and staff is also recommending in favor. Yeah, Rob. Yes, yes, yes. I'm here on behalf of the applicant Brian Rindle,
 We worked hard with the city staff to develop a proposal that works for this site. It's a tricky site because there's an eight-story tall football stadium on one side and a single-family house on the other. But we think we've struck a good balance and that this will seal that edge of the neighborhood and maintain its single-family quality.
 Now I'm available to answer any questions. Do we have any questions? Yes. Not a question specifically, just a couple comments, Rob. I really appreciated you coming to the Ward 4 meeting. I have to tell you, when you left that meeting after getting the input,
 And people came up to me after the meeting and said, now that's how someone should give a presentation. Oh, good. And they really appreciated that. And then when, after you left and a couple days went by and they had expressed some concerns about a few elements in the development that could be addressed through a bill of assurance and you submitted that bill of assurance and when I distributed that to them, I got more feedback and I said, and they said, that's how you follow up.
 After giving feedback, so I just have to tell you how much I appreciate your responsiveness to everyone everyone that I have spoken with Especially in the university Heights area really does like this project and appreciates the bill of assurance that it's going along with the property All right, many other questions from the council any public comment on this okay bring it back to the council I
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Ms. Saunders, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property is cried in a rezoning petition RZN 15-5179 for approximately 1.39 acres from residential single family four units per acre to neighborhood conservation and residential single family eight units per acre.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Move of motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Loutier? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described in a rezoning petition, RZN 15-5179, for approximately 1.4 acres from residential single family, four units per acre, to neighborhood conservation and residential single family, eight units per acre. Any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll? LaTuerre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property describing zoning petition RZN 15-5156 for approximately 2.71 acres located at 1220 and 1226 West Cleveland Street and 725, 727 and 805 Hall Avenue from RPCD Residential Housing District to RSF4 Residential Single Family 4 Units Baker and P1 Institutional. Kitt.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following inscribed property from residential planned zoning district to residential single family, four units per acre, and P1 institutional, as shown on Exhibits A and B attached here to the main part hereof.
 In section two, the planning council of the City of Fayetteville arcs, I hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Chairman. In 2012, the City Council approved a planned zoning district on this property called Project Cleveland. It was a multifamily project.
 It consisted of six parcels containing about 2.7 acres. The PZD expired in December of last year and prior to the PZD being approved, the zoning of the properties were RSF4 and RMF40. As an expired PZD, this property currently has no zoning or development rights and as you've noticed, we've been bringing those back forward to rezone the properties.
 The university currently owns the majority of the property and has developed a parking lot after it was purchased by them in May of 2013. There is one lot that contains a single family residence owned by a private property owner. Staff is recommending that the bulk of the property be rezoned P1 institutional, which is what university properties are zoned in the city of Fayetteville, and the single family lot owned by the private property owner returned to its original zoning of RSF4. Planning Commission voted nine to zero in favor of that request.
 Is the applicant here? Staff is the applicant. I'm sorry. So they're here. So they're here. You're here. Happy to take any questions. Yes. What questions? Yes. I wonder if you'd ask Jeremy some questions. All right. Any public comment on this? Bring it back to the council. We go to the second reading. Second. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 I have a motion to second to go to the second rating. Senator, would you please call the roll? Lutera? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenop? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property ascribed in a rezoning petition RZN 15-5156 for approximately 2.7 acres located at 1220 and 1226 West Cleveland Street and 725, 727, and 805 Hall Avenue.
 from residential plan zoning district to residential single family four units per acre and p1 institutional i may wish to stand the road third and final reading second we have a motion second to go to third and final reading sondra would you please call the roll little chair yes long yes gray yes marsh yes kenyon yes heady yes yes
 In order to rezone that property, described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5156 for approximately 2.7 acres, located at 1220 and 1226 West Cleveland Street and 725, 727, and 805 Hall Avenue from our residential planned zoning district to residential single family, four units per acre, and P1 institutional. Any final comments from the council? Okie dokie.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Will Chair? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Okay. Number 10.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition to RZN 15-5165 for approximately 0.23 acres, located at 1118 South Dunn Avenue from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Line Industrial to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Kit. Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification for the inscribed property from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Line Industrial to Neighborhood Conservation as shown on Exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof.
 Jeremy. This is an undeveloped parcel containing a quarter acre at the southeast corner of Dunn Avenue and 11th Street. It's across from the National Cemetery. Currently zoned I-1, which is our heavy commercial and light industrial zoning district.
 The proposal is to rezone the property to NC neighborhood conservation. While this property surrounding the area is zoned I-1, much of it is actually utilized for single family development and multi-family development. We feel the proposed zoning is compatible with the mixture of single and multi-family development and also commercial uses within this residential neighborhood area and staff is supportive of the request. Planning Commission also voted in support 9-0. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this?
 Any public comment on this? Bring it back to the council. We spin the rules and go to the second reading. Sorry, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Will it chair? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Chair?
 In order to rezone that property, I describe in the rezoning petition RZM 15-5165, approximately 0.23 acres, located at 1118 South Dunn Avenue from Heavy Commercial Light Industrial to Neighborhood Conservation.
 Move to go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion to second. Go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property is cried in rezoning petition RZN 15-5165 for approximately a quarter acre located at 1118 South Dunn Avenue from heavy commercial and light industrial to neighborhood conservation.
 Do we have any final comments from the council on this? No, I don't think so. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. Okay. Number 11, an ordinance to rezone that property described in zoning petition RZN 15-5174.
 for approximately 102 acres located at the southern end of Ruppel Road from NC Neighborhood Conservation, CS Community Services, RA Residential Agricultural,
 RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, and RSF 2, residential single family, two units per acre, to RA, residential agricultural. RSF 2, residential single family, two units per acre. RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, and NC, neighborhood conservation, and CS, community services. Kidd. Be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the following inscribed property from neighborhood conservation, community service, residential agricultural, residential single-family four units per acre, residential single-family two units per acre, to residential agricultural, residential single-family two units per acre, residential single-family four units per acre, neighborhood conservation, and community service, as shown on Exhibits A and B of Desk 2 and made a part hereof.
 In Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Chairman. This property contains approximately 102 undeveloped acres located south of the Mountain Ranch subdivision in West Fayetteville. It's due east of the Ruple Road that's currently being extended south of Al Creek Elementary School. The western portion of this property was included in the city-initiated rezoning of the South Ruple Road corridor approved by the City Council back in June of this year and
 The unique part about this zoning, there's no new zoning districts proposed. The same zoning is proposed just in different areas of the site. As you can see on the table there on page two of the staff report, the residential agricultural is being expanded in portions of the property that are more sensitive. RSF2, the same, is being expanded by about an acre up the hillside.
 The residential single family four units per acre is decreasing actually by about six acres to 46.81 acres. Neighborhood conservation is also decreasing a bit, but the bulk of the change is in community services from a quarter acre to about almost 12 acres near Ruple Road.
 When staff reviewed this project, this proposal, we felt it was generally compatible with the surrounding residential properties to the north. The zoning would introduce almost 12 acres of community service zoning along the western portion of the site and then transitioning to lower density neighborhood conservation and RSF4 further east and finally transitioning to RSF2 zoning on the steeper hillside, hilltop, overlay district areas along the east.
 While the rezoning of the RA portion of the site does not exactly match the designation of natural areas, the applicant proposes to shift the RA areas more to the north, netting an increase of a little over six acres to be intended for conservation or preservation of those sensitive areas. The applicant's refinement of these zoning lines is expected, given that our South Rupert Road rezoning at 642 acres was a broad brush.
 review without information on specific development proposals or detailed field analysis. We also believe this proposal is consistent with principles of transect zoning, transitioning from rural to urban zones within a defined neighborhood structure. There was no public comment presented at the Planning Commission meeting and the Planning Commission voted 9-0 in favor of the request. Is there an applicant here?
 I was hanging in there. I talked to Paul back there for a while. A lot of interesting comments. Thanks for y'all's energy and time tonight. But anyhow, yes, we agree with everything Jeremy has said. We've worked with the staff for quite a while on this project. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with the staff. We're going to continue to work with
 We're very excited about it. If you have any questions for us, we'd be happy to answer them. Sorry. One question to it. Alan. I have one question. One constituent did ask me how long the signs had been up about the rezoning. The requirement by the code is at least 15 days prior to planning commission hearing. Those go up 15 days prior at a minimum.
 It's just a very large area. Would it slow y'all down or impact your project timeline, anything, if we held it for one more city council meeting since it is such a large piece of land? I can say this. I know I was there with Lionel when we did the groundbreaking for Rupert Road. It was prominently displayed in the background, the signposting, and...
 This is something we've been working on since 2007. And would two weeks kill us? No, but it's one of those things where you're working on a project that is on a scale that we've been working on for so long that I don't see any adverse effects to the site plan, the rezoning, all this stuff. Two weeks isn't going to change anything on waiting, but breaking ground would...
 be advantageous for us because it's not about breaking ground now. It's we're talking about winter months. You're talking about rain. You're talking about snow. You're talking about sleep. We've got a very specific site plan that we've been working with staff for a long time. That's why these zoning legal descriptions are so specific. So we're never in the mode of pushing off the public, but we can say that this is something that the public should have been. We've tried to
 present this zoning. It was, it's gone through several rezonings. So this isn't the first request. If anything, this is an amendment towards increasing a preservation that we are, area that we already intended for. So we've increased the RA. I guess if there's a person in particular, please send them my contact. It's readily available. I would talk to them anytime. You know,
 In the end, we're not going to break ground tomorrow. We've got to go through preliminary construction plans. We're talking about months being out from doing anything. So, you know, with staff's assurance that this meets the guidelines of city council and the vision of Fayetteville, we're simply requesting them to move forward today. But...
 you know if there's something specific that you can uh like i said we're very open to discussing this with anyone in the public and uh i'd i'd rather entertain talking to them i'll go to their house they can come to our office
 Coffee's not that great, but we'll do whatever we gotta do. Well, it's not worth all of that. The question they posed to me was how long has the sign been up? So that's, it's not a... Yeah. They do not support this. They were just curious. Certainly. In Lionel, I don't know if you can remember, but I think we put out a little bit earlier than... We typically grab those signs on the first call because
 It's just one of those things. It's our Friday routine. They send them out Friday. We're supposed to have them up by Wednesday. It's just, that's one of those things, you know, you'd rather drive around town on Friday afternoon putting signs up than, you know, stay in the office. So, you know, is it a few days early to put a sign on? Maybe, but I don't think it's one of those deals. So, thank you. But honestly, don't lie. Just any time, if someone has questions, call us anytime. That's what we're there for. Thank you.
 Good. Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. We suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sondridge, please call the roll. Lutour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Yes.
 In ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 15-5174, approximately 102 acres located at the southern end of Rupa Road from Neighborhood Conservation, Community Services, Residential Agricultural, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, Residential Single Family, 2 units per acre to Residential Agricultural, Residential Single Family, 2 units per acre, Residential Farming.
 single family, four units per acre, neighborhood conservation, and community services. We suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. I have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Senators, please call the roll. Latorre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tannock. Yes. In order to rezone that property, it's granted a rezoning petition, RZN 15-5174, for approximately
 located at the southern end of Rupa Road from neighborhood conservation, community services, residential agricultural, residential single family four units per acre, residential single family two units per acre, to residential agricultural, residential single family two units per acre, residential single family four units per acre, neighborhood conservation, and community services. Any final comments from the council?
 I do remember this piece of property when I was on the council. It's going to be great to see that developed in that area. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Okay. Number 12.
 an ordinance to approve vacation 15-5087 submitted by fred patrick property located at 1005 rockwood trail to vacate an alley right away kit whereas the city council has the authority under aca 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 Whereas the City Council has determined the following described right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes Now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 at the City Council city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the alley right-of-way as described in exhibit B attached here to Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached here to as exhibit a shall be the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk and
 And second, three, that this vacation approval shall be subject to the condition that any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and the new easement dedication shall be at the expense of the owner or developer. Chairman. Chairman.
 This is a request for a vacation of an alleyway along Rockwood Trail, along the east side of Rockwood Trail. It's not a constructed alley. It was platted between residential lots and never used or constructed. The applicant's proposing vacation of that alley after construction of a single-family home, and staff is supportive, as is the Planning Commission, seven to zero. Any questions for Jeremy on this? I have a question. Okay. Sorry. What was the purpose of the vacation?
 It's simply an old platted right of way that's along the rear of their property. It does not fully connect streets, so they simply wish to return the property back to the adjacent property owners. Okay. But the property owners are requesting it through a construction company. So are they planning on building something there? There's a home that's already constructed there that the builder still owns. Okay.
 i guess that's not my question is is there a problem with the city maintaining the eat the right-of-way and i mean is it going to change anything i guess that's my question
 Not physically, it wouldn't change anything. Right now, there's simply a platted right-of-way. It's never been constructed. It's still currently owned by the city. There are no utilities or anything within the right-of-way. They're requesting it simply to be as part of their yard now to be owned by them as opposed to a potential for, I guess, a future alley connection along Rockwood Trail.
 Well, the reason I'm asking is I've spent a good deal of the last two weeks working with the utility companies and some property owners on Rockwood Trail. I had the clerk actually forward Alderwoman Gray and Marsh an email regarding that. And that's a very narrow street, and I just foresee the city possibly needing utility easements, right-of-ways in that area in the future when, you know, eventually that street will be redone, I'm assuming. Yeah.
 And this would be maintained as utility easement per the conditions of the ordinance. So it would still be maintained as utility easement. Okay. Thank you. Have you all received any calls on it or anything? No. No. Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Move we go to the second reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Louture? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tannock? Yes. And ordinance approved, VAC 15-5087, submitted by Fred Patrick, for property located at 1005 Rockwood Trail to vacate an alley right of way. I'll move it to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Hetty? Yes. Tenet? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 15-5087 submitted by Fred Patrick for property located at 1005 Rockwood Trail to vacate an alley right-of-way. Any final comments from the council on this?
 sound would you please call the row yes long yes ray yes marsh yes canyon yes petty yes okay number 13 an ordinance to approve vacation 15-5157 submitted by gene busher for property located at 688 with them
 Avenue to vacate an alley right away kit whereas the City Council has the authority under a CA 1454 104 to vacate public Grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes And whereas the City Council has determined the following described alley right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the city of fatal Arkansas section 1
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby vacates the alley right-of-way as described in Exhibit B, Attached Tier 2, Section 2. A copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached here to as Exhibit A, shall be filed in the office of Washington County Circuit Clerk, Section 3. This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one.
 Any portion of the existing alley that contains utilities shall be dedicated as utility easement pursuant to the requirements of AEP Sweppco, Source Gas, and the City of Fayetteville. The vacation is not in force until an easement is dedicated or the utilities are relocated. Number two.
 New utility easements for any existing utilities outside the subject alley are not required to be dedicated at this time. Number three, any cause associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the expense of the owner or developer. Chair May.
 This is also an alley right-of-way located behind several residential lots on Whittem Avenue, which is between Cleveland Street and Taylor Street, north of University. The alley as well as several public streets were platted in 1893, but were never constructed. Most of these rights-of-way have already been vacated. An applicant is proposing to vacate the existing alley in this location. It is not utilized to access any adjacent property and all property owners adjacent
 to the alley have agreed to the alley vacation. Staff is recommending approval and the Planning Commission agreed as well, seven to zero. Any questions for Jeremy on this? Yes, Al. I'm sorry, I have another question. So we're doing several of these tonight, I realize that, but is this not valuable property? Do we, and we own the property, right? We only own a right of way it was dedicated to us. We don't own the underlying property. Okay, I understand better than me. Thank you. Any other questions? Any public comment?
 So now I'll bring it back to the council. I move we go to the second reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Leter. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes.
 Kenyon yes, Eddie. Yes. In order to prove the AC 15 as 5157 submitted by June boot Jean boot butcher butcher. Sorry for property located at 688 with a man who to vacate an alley right away. The spend the rules, no 3rd reading like a motion saying the 3rd and final reading song which please come. Well, too, yes, mom, yes, great yet Marsh.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. An ordinance approved VAC 15-5157 submitted by Gene Butcher. I'm sorry, I'm not going to get that right. For a property located at 688 Whittem Avenue to vacate an alley right-of-way. Any final comments from the council? Sunder, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 Kenyon yes, Eddie. Yes. 10. Okay number 14. An ordinance to prove vacation 15-5161 submitted by Joe Parmy for property located at 2055 East Signal Hill Depot to vacate a portion of a utility easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-1 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for public purposes.
 Whereas the City Council has determined that the following scribe portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes now therefore it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas section 1 and
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of the utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached here to Section 2, a copy of the ordinance to be certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached here to as Exhibit A shall be filed in the office of Washington County Circuit Clerk and Section 3 of this vacation approval.
 shall be subject to the condition that any cost associated with the relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the expense of the owner or developer.
 Chair. Waterfield Trail Village Retirement Community has received approval for an expansion to their facility off of Joyce Boulevard. There's an existing utility easement containing an electrical line. AEP Swepco has agreed for the developer to relocate that line provided they provide a new utility easement and pay to relocate it. Old easement would then need to be vacated, which is the request here. Planning Commission voted 7-0 and staff is recommending approval. What questions do I have for Jeremy on this?
 Any public comment on this? Bring it back to the council. If we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. May I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes, sir.
 An ordinance approved VAC 15-51-61, submitted by Joe Perme for property located at 2055 East Signal Hill Depot to vacate a portion of a utility easement.
 Motion to suspend the rolls and move to the third and final reading. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. An ordinance to approve the AC 15-5161 submitted by Joe Permy for property located at 2055 East Signal Hill Depot to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Any final comments from the council?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okay. Number 15, an ordinance to approve Vacation 15-5176, submitted by Blount Associates, incorporated for property located along Mark Mills Lane to vacate portions of a conservation easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portions of a conservation easement are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby vacate certain portions of conservation easement as described in Exhibit B attached here to and Section 2. That a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached here to as Exhibit A, shall be filed in the Office of Washington County Circuit Clerk. Chairman. The Summit Place is a subdivision located on the south side of Township, east of College Avenue. There are several single-family homes constructed there, but the majority of the property remains undeveloped.
 In 2011, the council approved a rezoning and then subsequently the Planning Commission approved a replatting to increase the number of residential lots from 50 to 123.
 To avoid having to increase the size of detention ponds and drainage pipes and other infrastructure to accommodate the increase in density, the applicant provided a conservation easement through the rear of many of the lots. This easement restricted impervious surface in the easement area, thereby reducing the need or removing the need for any additional drainage improvements.
 In 2015, the Planning Commission approved the applicant replanting a portion of this neighborhood back into larger lots. The applicant is now proposing to reduce the size of the existing conservation easement because it's no longer needed to meet the stormwater detention requirements. Staff recommended approval of this request and the Planning Commission voted 7-0. What questions we have for Chairman Yonnas? Anything? Okay. Any public comment? I think we've worn them out, Mayor.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? We suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Luttre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Yes.
 In Ordinance to approve VAC 15-51-76, submitted by Bluen Associates Incorporated, for property located along Mark Mills Lane to vacate portions of a conservation easement. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Lutere. Yes. Long. No. No.
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. And ordinance approved VAC 15-5176 submitted by Balloon Associates Incorporated, the property located along Mark Mills Lane to vacate portions of a conservation easement. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Saunders, would you please call the roll? Latorre? Yes. Long? No.
 Gray, yes. Marsh, yes. Kenyon, yes. Petty, yes. Tennant, yes. Okay, number 16, an ordinance to approve Vacation 15-5177 submitted by Georgiansen Associates Incorporated
 For property located at 1375 North Leverett Avenue to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the utility easement as described in Exhibit B, Attached Tier 2. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Tier 2 as Exhibit A, shall be filed in the Office of Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1.
 Existing utilities are required to be relocated and a new easement dedicated as required by the franchise utilities prior to this vacation taking effect. Number two, any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the expense of the owner or developer.
 Chairman. This easement is located within an existing apartment complex, the Noble Oaks apartment complex off of Plebritt Avenue. The applicant is requesting a vacation of a portion of that utility easement, and staff and the planning commissioner are recommending in favor with the attending conditions of approval. Any questions for Jeremy on this? Any public comment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Thank you.
 Motion to second. Second. Motion to second to go to the second rating. Senator, would you please call the roll? Lutere. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. An ordinance approved BAC 15-5177 submitted by Jorgensen and Associates, Inc., for property located at 1375 North Leverett Avenue to vacate a portion of a utility easement.
 Motion to suspend the rules, go to the third and final reading.
 Motion to say and go to the third reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 15-5177, submitted by Jorgensen & Associates, Inc., for property located at 1375 North Leverett Avenue to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Any final comments from the council?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. Okay, number 17. Okay.
 In order to approve Vacation 15-5178 submitted by Jorgensen Associates, a corporate property located at the southwest corner of Joyce and Steele Boulevard to vacate portions of the utility, drainage, and trail easements. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes,
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described utility, drainage, and trail easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council that the City of Fayetteville and Arkansas, Section 1.
 The City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the utility, drainage, and trail easements as described in Exhibit B, attached here to Section 2. I have a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached here to as Exhibit A, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk in Section 3.
 This vacation approval is subject to following conditions. Number one, a 25-foot utility easement shall be retained on the south side of lot four. Number two, any relocation or damage to utilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the expense of the owner or developer. Chairman. Chairman.
 The Uptown Development, which is a mixed residential and commercial project in Office Steel Boulevard in North Fayetteville, was approved in 2014. We're under permit review currently. This request is to vacate a portion of existing utility drainage and trail easements at the southwest corner of Joyce and Steel. Staff recommended approval. The Planning Commission voted 7-0, also in support of the request. Any questions for Jeremy on this?
 Any public comment? Okay, bring it back to the council. Motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. An ordinance to approve the AC 15-5178, submitted by Jorgensen & Associates Incorporated for a property located at the southwest corner of Joyce and Steel Boulevards.
 to vacate portions of the utility, drainage, and trail easements. Move we go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes.
 In order to prove the AC 15 as 5178 submitted by Jorgensen Associates Incorporated for property located at the southwest corner of Joyce and still Boulevard's to vacate portions of utility drainage and trail easements. Any final comments from the council on this? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Okay. Number 18.
 and ordinance to amend 156.03 development parking and loading of the variances chapter of the unified development code to establish a various procedure for commercial office and mixed use design and development standards kit whereas the current section 166.25 c4 of the unified development code was recently adopted but was
 so broadly worded as to its application and couch in such mandatory and absolute terms that it has caused unnecessary and unintended difficulties for several developments and whereas the variance procedure will allow flexibility for developers while ensuring that the development provide well-designed facades facing adjacent streets now therefore be it ordained by the city council city of fayetteville arkansas section one
 that the City Council and City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby amend Section 156.03 to rename the heading from Design Standards to General Design Standards. Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby amend Section 156.03 by inserting the following language as a new Section 156.03 , with the subsequent sections to be renumbered accordingly.
 Number two, commercial office and mixed use design and development standards of variance of the exterior appearance and design standards may be granted by the Planning Commission if it is determined that strict compliance with the code will result in an adverse safety impact
 or if the standards should not be applied due to a unique situation. In granting the variance, the Planning Commission may require principal facades without a prominent entryway to be designed with distinctive architectural details such as changes in wall plane, glazing human scale elements such as canopies, awnings, small scale lighting, or other features to ensure the intent of the code is met.
 Chairman. This proposed ordinance amendment centers on the requirement for commercial buildings to have a primary entry on all principal facades. Principal facades are defined as those facing the street.
 As Mr. Williams mentioned, we had several projects come to the Planning Commission where there was quite a bit of discussion and confusion about how to apply that, particularly in instances where safety was an issue or the building happened to be 500 feet away from a street but still faced the street. So this is an attempt to provide a very clear variance process where there are unique conditions that the Planning Commission can review and staff can then recommend.
 in favor with certain conditions. The Planning Commission, as mentioned by Mr. Williams, and the ordinance is allowed to look at things such as architectural details, lighting, features, and canopies in an effort to still provide the necessary articulation of a structure that is visible from a street. Staff is supportive of this request and the Planning Commission, after several meetings and even an Ordinance Review Committee meeting, their Planning Commission recommended in favor eight to zero.
 I've got to admit, I'm partly responsible for this long change. I had suggested that one of the design standards should follow all the other design standards by saying it should be done instead of it shall be done on the prominent entryway. Uh-huh.
 But the planning commission decided that this variance was better to spell it out, so that's why we have this. And I certainly support this. I just, what had happened is that there had been some projects like the Wal-Mart where the, it seemed like the code said they must have an entryway right where the drive-through was for the pharmacy, which safety would not allow that. And there were some other problems like that, and so that's why I went to planning and
 And we initially presented a should instead of shall, and then this was changed, and the Planning Commission wanted to do more, and so this is a result of that, and I certainly support this variance procedure that Jeremy just described to you. Okay. Do we have any questions from the Council on this? One quick question. Sure. Sorry. Can—this is still—the City Council can still appeal these decisions, right? That's correct. Thank you. Anything else? No.
 do we have any public comment on this one okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 We spin the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Luttre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. In Ordinance to Amend Section 15603, Development, Parking, and Loading of the Variance Chapter of the Unified Development Code to establish a variance procedure for commercial office and mixed-use design and development standards.
 I move it go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinnion. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. In order to amend section 15603, development parking and loading of the variance chapter of the Unified Development Code to establish a variance procedure for commercial office and mixed use design and development standards. Any final comments from the council on this?
 Okay, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenet? Yes. Okay, number 19. The resolution authorized the addition of one full-time equipment position to the parking division to provide for part-time employees to staff event parking in the Spring Street parking deck.
 Mayor, council, good evening. How did you get this on the last of the agenda? I'm not sure how I got so lucky. But thank you all for hanging in there and hearing this last one out. As you may be aware, the city is authorized by ordinance to provide event parking for Walton Arts Center events when there's more than 600 patrons expected to attend their events.
 Since 2013 the parking division has been providing event parking in our West Avenue lot where we have 296 parking spaces And for many of their shows that lot is completely full Event parking staff helps patrons by taking direct payment directing traffic and answering any questions that patrons might have and
 As you all I'm sure are aware the city is nearing completion on the new Spring Street parking deck which will add 236 parking spaces directly adjacent to the Walton Arts Center and the Walton Arts Center is Anticipating starting their fall season on November 6th And they have 43 shows scheduled from November 6th through the end of 2015 so quite a packed schedule for the rest of the year and
 And so this resolution, what this resolution would do is allow us in the parking division to provide event parking staff for that new Spring Street parking deck so that we can simultaneously provide event parking in both the West Avenue lot and the new Spring Street deck.
 The cost for this item for the remainder of 2015 would be just over $8,600 to staff those 43 shows that the Walton Arts Center has planned, and the expected cost for a full budget year for this position is $1,000.
 is a little over $23,000. And I would add that the full-time equivalent position will be divided into four part-time event parking staff that'll work one quarter time to provide that event parking staff for the Spring Street parking deck.
 Okay. What questions do we have? Sarah? I guess my primary concern is the low wages that we've got on this position. I know that these are part-time positions with no benefits, but it's exactly this kind of job that people end up cobbling together three jobs and still can't make a living.
 In order to meet the affordability threshold for the average one-bedroom apartment in Fayetteville, we would need to be paying at least $12 an hour, and I see that the bottom salary here is $10.10. That's a pretty big gap, so I guess I would like to see us raise that so that we're setting a better example and providing for these people who are providing for these services. Okay.
 Okay, I took that to staff and there were some complications with that. Was there not? Well, obviously we have current event parking staff that's being paid at the level being proposed today. So we could potentially have pay inequity issues between existing staff and the new positions unless we changed all of them. I do remind the council that
 We have a compensation study as a part of our budget proposal that Paul talked about for 2016. That if we want to address minimums higher than the market set minimums or the minimum wage federally or state, then we think that's the time to really kind of talk about it from a comprehensive perspective. Because we have other positions that fall into this arena.
 Parks and Recreation, counselors, lifeguards, and referees who all have different varying rates based on this that would from an hourly basis be calculated lower than that. So we hear you, we've heard it. We haven't had a compensation program since this discussion, or a compensation study since this discussion first came up two years ago, because we do one every four years.
 We'd like to look at and address that at the time that we do the actual study and address it from a city WAC perspective and then let the council decide if that's the policy they want to move forward with. The rates currently are set based on the market rates of what we've identified. And I guess just on a fairness issue, we don't think it's fair to hire four new people at a wage higher than we have individuals working in the city today at a...
 current $10 rate. I would also just add that the event parking positions tend to be filled, they're part-time 10 to 25 hours per week as you mentioned, tend to be filled by college students. We actually have four parking enforcement staff that are full-time and
 employed by the city of Fayetteville, $32,000 a year, full benefits plus overtime. And two of those four individuals actually started in event parking, so it can serve as a nice stepping stone into full-time employment at a very handsome wage within the parking division in the city of Fayetteville. And the short answer is we can address some of that during the budget discussions. Because I can't move.
 folks in there that have not worked for us for $12 an hour, when I've got folks that's working part-time, $10 an hour. Understood. I just want to keep raising this point because I just... I totally understand. We're going to look at that. And Council Member Marsh, we hear you raise this. We just think it should be done at the time of the overall compensation study, and then as a policy directive, the council can decide whether you want to set that. Because the first thing we want to do is make sure we bring you the...
 the data that at least keeps our pay systems equitable across all age ranges, all male and female, all of those items that are a part of the comprehensive plan. Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the Council. I move we suspend the Rosengarden. We're on a resolution this time. I move it pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution.
 Any final comments from council? Senator, would you please call the roll? LaTierre? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Okie dokie. Good job. Any announcements? No.
 Yes, Mayor. I'd like to announce that we are taking applications for our newest commission called the Civil Rights Commission, which we are establishing as a result of our past ordinance and we have about two more weeks, actually a little less than two weeks because
 The 16th at 5 o'clock is the last time that a citizen can submit an application. So I'm hoping that you will contact the clerk's office or go online and get an application and complete that so we'll have a good distribution of our citizens serving on this commission. Any other announcements? Mr. Mayor, we have several announcements tonight.
 start first to remind citizens that the city's utility division is releasing the new utility pay system on monday october the 13th this has been something that customers have wanted for some time for 24-hour accessibility for payment of bills convenience user-friendly without sacrificing security in that process
 The new application allows us to have a more mobile friendly device, improved security online bill payment, a new pay now option that allows citizens quick payment without having to register an account, view their payment history, and to view their past billing statements as it relates to their utility accounts. So that's a new service available online for people to make their bill payment so they don't have to come to the teller window if they don't want to do that.
 I want to also remind citizens that the final two fall bulky waste cleanups are coming up. The first one is this coming Saturday from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. The locations are the Shaver Food parking lot, which is behind the Randall Tyson track complex, and the recycling and trash collection facility that's located at 52.
 Sorry, 1560 South Happy Hollow Road. E-waste is accepted at these cleanups at the recycling and trash location. And so that's an opportunity to get rid of your computers and cords and games and things that you would otherwise pay the county to
 take in for e-waste items, so hope you'll take that. The second one is the following Saturday, so October the 17th, and the location is the Church of Christ parking lot at 303 West Center right here in Ward 2. And the Recycling and Trash Collection Center. And again, electronic waste will be taken at the recycling center for the city.
 Also remind businesses that the business license renewal is taking place. It started September 1st.
 the deadline to have your new permits renewed or october 31st we want to thank the 62 percent of our businesses who have already renewed their licenses so we have a thousand one hundred a thousand eight hundred and eighty three have renewed out of our 3037 that need to do that so we're well on our way but we want to remind businesses that haven't done that of the deadline october 31st
 The City is also currently taking applications for the 2016 Food Truck and Trailer Permit Lottery. Applications are being accepted October 1st through October 30th through 5pm on the 30th. They can be done online or in person in our Development Services offices.
 And then last kind of, or two things, we have the Hero Half Marathon, which is this Saturday. It's a half marathon and a one-mile run-walk. It's at 10 a.m. It goes around Lake Fable and ends at our station number one, so feel free to attend, participate, volunteer. There's festivities at the end of the race as well put on by the AAFF.
 If you get tired of running while you're out there, this is our weekend coming up, October 10th and 11th, for the free fishing weekend. One of the two annual free fishing weekends offered by the city council to promote and encourage use of our lakes, Lake Fayetteville and Lake Sequoia.
 You can fish at those lakes free of a city permit. We do want to remind individuals that you still need a boating and a state fishing license. It's just the city portion that is waived for that weekend. But I hope you can take advantage of our lakes this weekend. Those are the announcements.
 Anything else? Kip? Mayor, I'm really going to let Jeremy make this announcement, but one of our owners is a champion, and Jeremy ran along with her for 30-something miles. Can you explain what Allison was able to do over the weekend?
 Sure, so this last weekend was the 27th, I think, annual Arkansas Traveler 100-mile race down in central Arkansas. Allison Jumper, who is our parks superintendent, parks planning superintendent in the Parks and Recreation Department, ran her second 100-mile race. This one she finished first, female, and seventh overall in 19 hours and 16 minutes. You don't rest in any of that time. You start in the morning and end the next day.
 She did very well. Over 100 runners participated and completed. 165 runners. 165 runners. Did very well. There were several payable runners that participated as well. So if you see Allison, congratulate her on the job well done. Absolutely. She's the female champion. Absolutely. I'm thinking about entering a half-mile marathon. Probably running in about the same amount of time.
 But congratulations, Allison. I do have one more really good piece of news. We got the bids on the historic bridges today and we get the bid. Oh, thank God. What was it, Jeremy? Do you remember 1 point? 1.7. 1.7 and we had like 1.6. 1.6 . We missed about— So we're definitely in the ballpark. We can work that out. We cut that almost $2 million out of that project. What an accomplishment. Thank you, Chris Brown, for your work.
 Well, the last announcement I have, we're out of here. All right. Thank you all very much.