I'd like to call to order the October 5th 2021 City Council meeting. Kara, would you please call the roll? Petty? Petty? Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Yes. Here. Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Gutierrez? Jones? Here. Kenyon? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Thank you all.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Thank you all. Good evening. We have the nominating committee report. Sarah, I believe you have that. I forgot about that.
 Okay, this is for our nominating committee meeting of September 23rd. We had a lot of really good applicants, but we had some positions that didn't have any applicants in them. So I always want to encourage everybody to apply for those. Historic District Commission, Joanne Goodley, one unexpired term ending 6-30-24. Tommy Flowers Davis, one unexpired term ending 6-30-24.
 This is the mayor's recommendation for the following candidates, and the nominating committee agrees with that. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Energy Improvement District Number 1, Matthew Kelly, one unexpired term, 123121. Fayetteville Arts Council, Dwayne Cromwell, one unexpired working artist term, ending 63023.
 Planning Commission, Mary Madden, one unexpired term ending 3-31-22. Public Facilities Board, that's vacant. It has one term ending 12-31-26. Town and Gown Advisory Committee, Zane Colvin, one University of Arkansas student living off campus appointed by the mayor, the term ending 9-30-23. Annie Dowling, one community citizen at large, term ending 9-30-23.
 23 representing wards 2, 3, or 4. Urban Forestry Advisory Board, we have a vacant position there. It is an unexpired tree service community term ending 12-31-22. And I believe that's our report. Thank you.
 Okay, I will entertain a motion to accept the nominations by the nominating committee. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the nominations by the nominating committee. Kerridge, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Harris?
 Thank you all the next order business. We have this monthly finance report by Paul Becker Good evening mayor and council once again We had a very good month for the city of Fayetteville or on the revenue side This report is for the month of August. So we're two-thirds of the way through the fiscal year so far General fund as we talked about sales taxes were up. They were strong. They were up 15% and
 compared to budget for the period. Again, this time sales tax was strong, showed a little difference. The increases weren't generally due to internet sales. Most of our increases actually were due to increased retail sales, big stores, big box stores, restaurants, et cetera. So it was a strong month for sales tax. Franchise fees were up a little bit.
 Alcoholic beverage taxes were up. Court fees and fines were down. And so all in all, the general fund was up 11% compared to budget on a year-to-date basis through two-thirds of the year during the month of August. Streets were up strong also. Street revenue was up strong. Half-cent sales tax was up 16%.
 as was the motor fuel tax turn back. It was up about 16%. So in total, we were up in revenue about 16%. This again is generating strong gasoline taxes and strong sales taxes for the period.
 Parking revenue parking revenue was about 2% over budget So this was roughly one of the first times that parking revenue is starting. We're starting to see a little increase again We pull back on expenditure So we're in a pretty good position in a parking fund at this point in time far as parks development fund that again is HMR taxes and
 HMR taxes are very strong for this year. They're up 30% compared to budget. So they're doing doing well at this point in time. Water and sewer fund, water and sewer fund, billings are up 8% at this point of time.
 However, on the expenditure side, we're going to be bringing forward a budget adjustment, actually a budget amendment for the purchase of water from Beaver District. We've had some pretty big leaks. We've also, as I said, our billings are up about 8%, so our usage has increased, and we'll be bringing that forward before year end.
 As far as the past due, accounts receivable, we've talked about. We're working on it. It's getting down. We've got about $800,000 still in accounts receivable balance. But we're working very hard with customers to work out payment plans and do everything we can to get them caught up on their utility bills. Trash and recycling, actually, revenues flat to budget. So that's an increase of where we've been for recycling and trash collection.
 Again, the residential is what's shown increases, and commercial is down just a little bit. But recycling and trash collection is right around even on budget at this point in time. The airport is seeing a lot more activity than it has before. Their traffic is up about 30%.
 And our actual gasoline revenue from jet fuel sales is up 60% compared to budget. I pulled the budget back a little bit this year as I thought we were going to have some tough times. But so far, we've been doing very well. So they're up substantially. I'll be bringing forward a budget amendment
 for more jet fuel before the year has ended, which is a good thing because sales are up. So all in all, we're seeing some pretty strong revenue for the year thus far. Hope it continues to year end and I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? All right, thank you, Paul. All right, we have two walk-ons tonight.
 The first one is a resolution to amend Rule A-10, Special Procedures During Pandemic Emergency of the Rules of Order and Procedure of the Federal City Council to authorize city council members to attend, speak, and vote during city council meetings by electronic means without being physically present. We will need to add this to the agenda. It will require suspension of the rules to place this on the agenda.
 I move to suspend the rules to place this on the agenda. Second. We have a motion to second to suspend the rules and place this on the agenda. Care to please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Now you want me to read the body, Mayor, before? Yes, please, if you will. Okay. Be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends rule A-10 of the rules of order and procedure of the Fayetteville City Council by repealing the current title and language in their entirety and replacing them as shown below. Quote, rule 10, virtual city council meetings authorized after proper notice has been provided to the public.
 City Council members are authorized to assemble, gather, meet, and conduct open public meetings, including speaking, voting, and passing ordinances and resolutions, through appropriate electronic means which ensure the public's right to attend by being able to listen to the proceedings and discussions.
 These open public meetings include the city council meetings and agenda sessions, as well as city council member committee meetings. And this was brought forward by Councilmember Jones. Mr. Young, do you have anything you want to add to that? No, actually, Kit, thank you so much for working on this and for reminding us of that we could actually make recommendations.
 to make these changes. So that's all I have. Okay, any questions from the council on this? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan?
 We don't have anybody raise their hand. Okay, who would like to address this in the council chambers? Great, I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion do we need to have, or what do you want to do? Mayor, I move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments?
 uh the only final comment is i i hope that we um continue to allow citizens and residents to speak i know that's not what we're voting on now but uh we've heard voices in the last two years that we've never heard before so much so that people call them outsiders they're not outsiders they just haven't had the ability to speak before so i hope we keep that in the back of our minds as we go forward okay any other comments from the council
 All right, if there's not care, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Bird? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, the next walk-on we have is an ordinance to amend the sunset clause of Ordinance 6465 to extend the mask mandate. I will entertain a motion to suspend the rules and add this to the agenda. Move to suspend the rules and add to the agenda. Second. We have a motion and a second to suspend the rules and add the ordinance to the agenda. Care which police call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Bench? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Okay. Whereas in response to the surge of unvaccinated persons requiring much increased hospitalization, intensive care, and ventilators because of the Delta variant, which was straining Fayetteville's hospital and medical resources, the City Council passed Ordinance 6465 on August 6th after Act 1002 of 2021, which had banned mask mandates, had been declared unconstitutional and been preliminarily enjoined.
 And whereas the Arkansas Supreme Court recently refused to dissolve the preliminary injunction issued by the Circuit Court, which therefore remains in full force and effect. And whereas the City Council also acted upon the recommendation of the City Board of Health that masks should be required, even for the fully vaccinated, again, in most indoor places of public accommodation until the pandemic surge of the unvaccinated substantially subsides.
 And whereas Governor Hutchinson did not renew his July 29, 2021 pandemic emergency proclamation, which automatically expired at the end of September. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 3, Sunset Clause of Ordinance 6465 to extend the mask mandate's continuing effectiveness by removing the following, quote, determination of the governor's current proclamation of pandemic emergency and affirms the continuing need for mask mandate to protect the health, safety, and welfare of our citizens at this time. This was sponsored by Councilmember Matthew Petty.
 And Matthew, what comments do you have? MATTHEW WALKER HALLMANN, Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Kit, for staying on top of this. The purpose of this ordinance is to meet the intention of the original ordinance, which was to make sure that this stays top of mind for the council and that we reconsider it when appropriate. We don't want to have a mask mandate forever. So that's why the original ordinance was written the way it was to require us to review it at this time. It was also written to acknowledge and rely upon the expertise of the City Board of Health
 And we're close, but we haven't quite passed the threshold that the City Board of Health recommends that we pass in order to lift the mandate more completely. And it seems like we're really close, especially with vaccinations, vaccine availability for children on the horizon at the end of this month.
 So in any case, this is a simple amendment. I hope it earns your support. It simply removes the link to the governor's emergency order and continues to rely upon the advice of the Board of Health, which I would expect, you know, they continue to review this weekly. I would expect that we get news very quickly as soon as we've crossed their threshold. Okay. What questions do we have in the council? Any discussion of it?
 So if we pass this, does the Board of Health remove the mask mandate? No, they give you advice though. That's why the original, or this particular ordinance was originally done, that you would rely upon their advice and they'll be watching the situation. And they'll also, I think, be considering advice from the CDC about when a mask mandate needs to be lifted.
 And then it's still the jurisdiction still remains with the city council to accept their advice or to actually just use your own discretion if the CDC itself requests the lifting of a mask mandate. But, of course, we are relying upon the city board of health and their expertise. I'm not really happy about removing the sunset clause without basically putting in something else.
 other than we remove it when we feel like removing that so that's that's what I got to say about that thank you okay what are the discussion do we have in the council could we add a date for review like a termination date of some sort well you're the council I'm saying that you can add whatever amendment you care I would like to add a termination date or review date second
 We assume need an actual date that would be handy I would I would suggest a friendly suggestion that we Have them review it every month So at the start of each month on the first day of each month Or the closest council meeting to the first day of each month. Well, let me just say this to the council I'm on that health board. They review it every week what the numbers are what the percentages are and
 And, but, you know, a termination date does not rattle me one way or the other. But I'm just, what I want you to know is not like we review this once a month or every two months. It's every week. I would like to suggest that maybe we could extend it every month. You can go ahead and remove your mask when you're speaking so we can understand. Yeah. Maybe we could extend it every month. We vote on it again. Okay.
 I was thinking more like six months just so people know and then obviously we can remove it early but then just that way people have a date so they don't think that we're doing this forever.
 And what I will do when the Board of Health thinks it's okay to lift the mask mandate, I will probably bring, or Matthew will bring, or somebody will bring something back to you all and say the Board of Health has decided that it's time to end the mask mandate. It's...
 And I should note that every council member by themselves can bring an ordinance to the City Council Yeah, so that anytime you want to bring an ordinance to the City Council at a regular meeting You can do that. The orders can say Ending the mask mandate so you really don't need to put in a review thing every time you can if you want to but keep in mind you have that power right now that anytime you want to bring an ordinance and
 a single council member can bring it doesn't require a second or anything else yep i mean i can if in two weeks the numbers are where the board of health feel comfortable i'll just bring it back to you all and say it's time that's what we did last time if i remember correctly with that i'm sorry with that in mind do we do you want to continue with like a review monthly or i mean is
 From my point of view, it would be very helpful if we don't get those numbers down, if this continues on, which none of us want, but at least we have sort of a check-in time, a check mark. We can say, this is where we are right here, and so we can just get an update. It would be nice from the Board of Health and make a decision at that point. And absolutely, if they come back earlier and say, let's terminate the mask mandate, then we can do that earlier. Okay.
 I would be in support of that as well. Well, okay. Well, what kind of – Matt, you had something? Oh, yeah. Thank you, Mayor. I totally think it's appropriate to get a report from the Board of Health with some frequency. I'm extraordinarily reluctant to put this particular action and law back on the agenda on a regular basis, and I'll tell you why.
 We've seen so much politics be made out of public health issues over the last year and a half. It makes me sick, right? It makes all of us sick. And...
 the whole point of the board of health and writing the law to rely upon their advice is to take our politics out of it we've already got people in this city people in this state in this region that use us as an example and call us draconian just for having a mask law
 And I feel strongly that removing those emotions from the debate and making it strictly about the science is the right way to craft public policy. We won't get credit for it,
 let's be frank we're not going to get credit for writing policy like that but that's the way policy is supposed to be written we're supposed to rely on the experts and stay in our lane so all for having a report from the Board of Health there's a lot to talk about and certainly especially we pray if this continues to go that will be more assertive and more aggressive than we may have been if a new strain comes out or something like that but it looks like
 We're about to finally win a round or two, and the Board of Health is reviewing this every single week. And I promise you, between Kit and the mayor and me, there's going to be immediate legislation. As soon as they say we've crossed the threshold in the number of deaths over the last two weeks and we're ready to lift it or we're ready to modify it.
 It may be soon that the Board of Health is ready to say, hey, we're going to loosen it up a little bit and not take it back all the way, or even very soon that we can lift it all the way. But I feel strongly we need to rely on their advice and wait to have a discussion with a vote until we get their advice back. Otherwise, I feel like it reintroduces the same politics that we've been so sadly observing over the last year and a half.
 Mayor yes, I totally agree with councilman councilmember petty We don't need to discuss this to death we just need to be responsible as we move forward to review it and we do have the Board of Health which Effectively can give us information that we need any time and we already have the authority to
 to amend it at any time or just to get rid of it. So I think that's the easiest way. And again, it would allow us to consider the facts as they're presented to us along the way without opening a can of worms every month or every week or putting a date down the,
 People would think well, it's going to end on that date and then we have to discuss it again whereas the way that it's crafted right now, we have a lot of Opportunity still to manage it without Escalating the emotions behind it. So I think that in my The way I'm thinking is that councilmember petty has crafted this correctly and I would not support an amendment to that
 change it Okay, so Councilmember Petty I have one request If we could make this a standard, you know Each council at each council meeting that we had the Board of Health give us a an update Would that be available? So they could just give us an update at each each meeting. I
 I certainly support that and I'd leave it to the mayor and staff to work out the details of that report whether that's better at The agenda session or a full council with I think I think the agenda session would be more proper place to do that But we could you know because we meet we meet almost every week So I think that would be very helpful so that it shows our citizens that we're staying on top of this and we're we would Like to end the mass mandate. We would like to have our numbers down and
 Yeah, but we can have, you know, you can have the Board of Health Officers come in every week during the agenda session and give you a report.
 I think, I mean, I trust the wisdom of this council. I don't, I think this council is going to end the mask mandate as quickly as they possibly think they can. So I don't, I don't. I just have one more comment. If we don't review this every month, I would like to suggest that maybe we hold this until the 12th, since it doesn't expire until the 14th, if we could call a special council meeting. Okay.
 I don't think we need a special council meeting. Hopefully we don't do that. I'm good with it being on the agenda session for the Board of Health to come and I don't think we need to codify that. I trust the mayor's office to make that happen. We'll make it happen. I'll get you a report from the Health Board officer every week. That's what y'all want. I don't, and those meetings are open to the public. I mean, it's not like,
 i'm very comfortable with that i think that's appropriate and you know when i see susan over there scribbling and i know that's already she's already getting it done honestly so okay i have one more comment sure i do know that i've been contacted by people that think that if we do it this way or similar to this that we're not allowing public input but
 Anyone can contact any of us at any time through our email or they can call us to give us input. And I think most of I think if all of us here are real responsive to that, I know I tried to answer on my emails and there there will there would be an opportunity to come in front of the city council if if you needed to.
 if your alderman would be so kind to bring something forward so it could be discussed. And I think that that is also a way that there's representation from the people and we need to be responsible for bringing something forward and putting it on the agenda if there is an outcry for public input based on whatever it is they feel like is needing to be discussed.
 i want uh people to know that i'm certainly available to talk to anyone about it and because it would take someone to put it on the agenda before we could have it at a meeting an open discussion so i i just wanted to express that i i understand that there is people there are people that will want to discuss this mr mayor
 Yes. Um, to, to piggyback on what Mark just said, there's also, you know, in addition to our emails, our City Council emails and, uh, you know, texting, phones, that sort of
 Kara where they they wait, it's not laser fish noise, but it's where they they send in and they there's a form They can fill out online or they can even call them call the mayor's office or clerk's office and they will give us an email From you know response showing what someone said. So What is that?
 application thing that people can do. So that can be located on the city's website. If you navigate to the main Fayetteville website and you go to how do I, it's labeled as give public comment for an upcoming agenda item. And it's a limited comment forum. It's only one way, which means that when you provide your comment, it goes directly to the mayor, the clerk's office, the city attorney, and the council members.
 Thank you. So there's all sorts of ways that people can contact us and have their voices heard. So, thank you One more comment sure Last time we held the speed limit ordinance So that we could get public comment on that and I feel like this is even more important than that So I really would appreciate if we would be able to hold this for public comment Well that will be up to the City Council
 I think the council needs to be aware, I did put it in my memo, that the current mass mandate ordinance will automatically terminate unless an ordinance is passed by the city council within 14 days of the date that the governor's proclamation expired, which I think was September 27th, which means that if this ordinance, if an ordinance is not passed by Monday, the mass mandate ordinance will expire.
 Mayor Jordan, I would like to make a motion if we could pass and type of, I'm sorry. Thank you. Absolutely. I would like to make the motion if we could go ahead and pass the, what? Well, this is an ordinance, and the first thing I have to do, I have to take public comment. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. And then we'll come back to you all, and you can do what you wish to do. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. I'm going to take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the chamber will be allowed to speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? Nobody on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Who would like to address this that's here in person in the chamber?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. So what discussion or actions would the council act on? I move we table and schedule a special meeting for Friday. I won't be in town Friday. I will not be back until Monday. The mayor's taking two days off, and I'm going to take two days off. So if you would, you still have Monday, though.
 I move that we table until Monday. Okay. Do we have a second table until Monday? Motion fails for lack of second. Okay. Now we have before us the ordinance. So what's the wishes of the council? Move to suspend rules and go to second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to second reading. Care would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Second.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Dirt? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Now, back to...
 uh councilmember hersberg i will be back monday and the ordinance does not expire until tuesday is that correct kit that the timeline is correct sorry the way i count it that is correct mayor um it always makes me nervous if we're trying to do something the very last day and someone might disagree with how i count the dates
 Okay. Move to submit rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. I have a discussion, I have a point. Sure, absolutely. As I'm sitting here, I really, I am struggling that we, we walked this on, we're not having open public discussion on it because no one knows about it, so I, I really think that we should consider having a special meeting so people have time to,
 give us input. Otherwise, we've just walked it on and no one saw it in advance and here we go. And I don't really feel comfortable with that. So I would actually support having a special meeting on Monday. It might have to be early if we can get a quorum to discuss this. I think that would be a responsible way to allow individuals to voice their opinion. So I move that we have a special meeting
 Monday second Second we have a motion to have a special city council meeting on Monday, I don't think it's impossible, but I believe the Planning Commission will be meeting on Monday in this room. I
 Well, I have a real quick question here. We know Sonia's not going to be available on Monday. I'm not going to be available on Monday. Are there any other council members that will, you know, you're not going to be here, right? Is that right? Well, if you all wanted to do it Friday, I can. Classic mayor. We do have a vice mayor. I mean, if it came to just one item, I don't know.
 I want to be here one year. Well, I'm just saying there is an option there. Yeah. So we have a motion and a second to do a special city council meeting on Friday. No, I said on Monday, but I would take a friendly amendment. Oh, well, I'm— Okay. Friday, then. All right. Want to second it? Okay. Yeah, it's all right. Friday's fine.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to do a special city council meeting on Friday. What discussion do we have on that? Good question. Yes. Okay, a couple of parliamentary questions for you. How many votes does it take to table this and move it to the special meeting? I think probably a motion to table an item is always appropriate and can be made. And so I think that this is an appropriate procedure at this point.
 Okay, great. And how many votes would it take to pass this ordinance? It takes five affirmative votes to pass an ordinance. It takes six affirmative votes to suspend the rules and go to the final reading. Okay. And are you recommending the passage of an emergency clause due to the timing with the governor's order and its expiration? It does not need to have an emergency clause because the way I wrote the sunset clause, it just said the ordinance had to be passed, not ineffective.
 Because we wouldn't have had time to make it, with an emergency clause, usually to have it actually effective. As you remember, it took a while for this ordinance to go into effect because it had a penalty provision. It has to be then published. So all this one has to do is be passed. Okay, thank you. I was curious about that. So I, let's see.
 There are two things that I'm thinking about with the motion to table and you know first I got to say it's not my intention whatsoever to call the intentions of the motion in the second into into question whatsoever We believe in public input in Fayetteville and always have and have been I think a real example for other cities With regards to that and our citizens know it so one
 It seems as though pushing this to the special meeting, given the potential absences, endangers the consensus of the vote. And so in terms of real politic, it could mean that the ordinance does not get extended simply for absences, which I feel strongly is not democratic.
 Secondly, and maybe this is the bigger feeling I have that I'm gonna struggle with, but I think there does come a point when we've had enough public input. And I think when we talk about how to make good decisions, whether it's in business or organizing or in politics, if we have a philosophy that we have to get all of the input, every last bit of it, it's often too darn late to make the best decision and to have the best outcome.
 The dance is, and what the careful part is trying to figure out when we've got enough input to make a good decision. So I feel we've had enough input. And I can't imagine of all the things I've already heard that there is going to be a new argument that compels me to change my mind. The only thing I can think of that I would hear that's new that I haven't already heard,
 is the Board of Health calling us and saying it's time. So I won't support going to another meeting, and I hope the consensus won't support it either. Okay. Any other discussion on the special city council meeting on Friday? Yeah, I also feel that if there was something so groundbreaking between now and then that we didn't know about masks before today, I would trust the mayor to have an emergency meeting anyway.
 if something was that groundbreaking. I don't see that happening. We've been in this for two years. We know what masks do. We know what vaccines do. We know what the virus does. There's nothing to learn other than obstruction. I totally agree. And I'm concerned about what if there are council members. Today is Tuesday and we don't know what Friday could hold. And so I think that we run the risk of not being able
 passed the ordinance. So I just don't think that it's a good time to wait. I think tonight we're here, and I think that we need to make a decision. I know that the public, they have plenty of opportunity to express their concern. And so I think that it makes perfect sense tonight to move forward. I would just like to mention that this was not the first special meeting on a Friday regarding this topic. I was going to mention that too.
 You know, I feel like that I was elected to represent an opinion, but I was also very, I feel that I always have to have an open mind until I've heard what people have to say in the community. And I've always made that commitment to the community and to the neighborhoods. And so even though I have a lot of information and I have an opinion.
 I would rather have input from our community so that we, you know, there might be some compelling argument out there that we don't know. And it's usually a compelling argument when someone calls me and we talk about an item that we disagree on or that I'm not sure of, I say I'm waiting for a compelling argument. And we haven't given our community the opportunity to present a compelling argument.
 So that's why I think it's necessary to have a special meeting. I think that the compelling argument should come, and I totally agree. I'm very engaged with my constituents, regardless of the matter. But I do believe that right now, if we're going to have a conversation on Friday, then that would include, and I think if we're going to include someone, then we need to include the Board of Health as well.
 And I'm wondering, do we have time to include all of these groups? Because what happens on Friday if we have a meeting and then we don't have a quorum? There – I mean, that's a possibility. So I think tonight – I think that for me, protecting the health and safety of Fayetteville, I don't want to miss that opportunity. So I think tonight is – I think that we have a duty to make that decision, whatever it is, tonight.
 i i have a comment um i'm glad we're having this discussion because i think it's really challenging we've been we're really good about listening to all of our folks making sure their voice is heard and i applaud that given the state that we were in and the county that we're in that we have such a process and i'm uncomfortable not hearing from the public about extending our mass mandate however
 we've got logistical concerns here and if there's ever a time to not hear from the public although we've heard from them in previous meetings now may be it i'd rather be cautious
 than a little reckless. So I'd much rather err on that side. So I'm gonna go against the way I usually conduct myself or the way I usually see things and support the mask mandate tonight. Okay, what we have before us is a motion to second to have a special city council meeting on Friday.
 So let's take care of that first. Any other discussion on that? Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Bunch? No. Dirk? No. Ertsberg? Yes. Jones? No. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Now we're back to the ordinance. It's on the second reading. This is an ordinance.
 Yes, go ahead. I guess I've got a procedure question. So if we do not suspend the rules and vote for this tonight, the mask mandate dies unless we have a meeting between now and Tuesday? That is correct. Unless, we can't wait for a regular meeting, there'd have to be a special meeting, and I would rather have it before Monday to make sure that it would be within time. Okay. I move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? I'm so torn on this. No. I think we have, what is it, a count? Five yeses. So Mayor, do you care to vote? I'm going to vote yes.
 all right it passes then and i'll read the title in order to amend the sunset clause of ordinance 6465 to extend the mask mandate final comments from the council i do have a final comment sure i am going to support this because i think it's necessary from a public health point of view but i am doing it with resistance because i think that as you know because of the motion i made that we should have had more conversation with the community
 But we don't have that opportunity. So I don't want people to think that I'm somehow waffling on a concept, because I do think that it's important to go ahead and move forward while we have the opportunity without the expiration of the ordinance that we have now. So just wanted to explain that. Any other final comments from the council? Kara, would you please call the roll? Eddy? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes thank you all all right we don't have any more walk-ons do we oh we don't all right let's go on to our next order of business which would be the consent agenda
 Number one approval of the september 14th 2021 special city council meeting minutes in september 21st 2021 city council meeting minutes number two A resolution to approve amendment number one to the professional engineering services contract with olsen incorporated in the amount of five thousand 519 dollars for additional materials testing related to the construction of the new police headquarters number three
 resolution to approve change order number five to the construction manager at-risk contract with Flint Co LLC For the police headquarters project in the amount of three million three hundred and twenty thousand dollars four hundred Four hundred and thirty nine dollars and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 police headquarters bond project a
 4. Resolution to approve change order number 7 to the contract with NABHOST Construction Corporation in the amount of $109,156.32 for water sewer relocations along Gregg Avenue
 and in the Fay Jones Woods and to approve budget adjustment this 2019 Cultural Arts Corridor Bond Project. Number five, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated pursuant to RFQ number 21-01, selection eight in an amount not to exceed $85,160 for the design of a water line upgrade along South School Avenue.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Olson Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 21-01, selection number seven, in the amount not to exceed $31,420 for the design of water service line replacements in Schuyler Place subdivision.
 7. A resolution to award bid number 21-63 to authorize the purchase of six submersible mixers from Jack Tyler Engineering, Inc. in the total amount of $220,384.02, plus applicable taxes and freight charges for use at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility.
 Number eight, a resolution to award 21-69 to authorize the purchase of an auto-loading hay trailer from Williams Tractor in the amount of $66,980 plus flexible taxes. Number nine, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2022 Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant in the amount of $131,000 and to approve budget adjustment.
 Number 10, a resolution to authorize the destruction of certain records shown on the attached affidavits pursuant to relevant sections of the Arkansas Code related to maintenance and destruction of accounting and other city records.
 number 11 a resolution to authorize the purchase of data communications products and services to authorize resellers pursuant to state of arkansas and national association of procurement officials cooperative purchasing agreements on an as needed basis through may 31st 2024 and any future renewal periods
 Number 12, a resolution to approve an amendment to the lease agreement with Theodore Squared Incorporated to remove 91 square feet of property from the legal description and to allow the residential facilities to be used in short-term rentals when not needed for performances. Number 13, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $25,000 recognizing park land dedication fees from the Southwest Park Quadrant to be used for the
 Purchase of rock sculptures and surveying services associated with a stream restoration project, Wilson Park. Number 14, a resolution to approve change order number two to Crossland Heavy Contractors Incorporated in the amount of $1,236,430 to repair slope failures and strengthen other slope areas at Kessler Mountain Regional Park and to approve budget adjustments.
 i'll retain a motion to accept the consent agenda as written i move we approve the consent agenda as read second we have a motion second to approve consent agenda as read care would you please call the road petty yes scroggins yes bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes jones yes kenyan yes thank you all let's move on to unfinished business number one
 resolution to grant the appeal of council members Sarah Bunch Holly Hirsberg and DeAndre Jones and approve an amendment to conditional use permit CUP 08-2908 to authorize bond recycling to legally expand its recycling activities to 1236 South School Avenue Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurtz with the City's Development Services Department. I don't have any new information, but I would like to offer a brief summary. I know this has been with the Council for about a month now, so let me share my screen here for you.
 And just as a brief reminder, the property in question includes two parcels just south of downtown Fayetteville, just northeast of school and school avenues intersection with 13th Street. Prior to the mid 2000s, it was used as an auto parts store.
 The request before the council tonight is an appeal to the Planning Commission's decision to not permit expansion of the bond recycling business on the property, which holds a conditional use permit as a recycling business.
 The request was in response to a complaint that was received by staff in 2021 about trailers being left out full of materials in front of the business adjacent to School Avenue, wrecked vehicles being left on site, and mud being tracked out onto a public street. Staff did corroborate the complaint with several on-site visits since then.
 As a little bit of background, again, that conditional use permit that the applicant would like to expand was granted in 2008. It was for the southern of the two properties in question tonight, which had its northern property line as the north wall of the building you see in the aerial here. The year afterwards, the business began expanding with gravel areas and parking vehicles there
 You can see in the subsequent years, the use continued to expand until most recently. It has been almost completely in use as an expanded area of the business, which is illegal and not permitted under the conditional use permit.
 As far as staff's recommendation, we do recommend denial of the request to expand the use to this northern parcel. We do not feel that it's appropriate to allow an expansion of it while the business has demonstrated that it can't comply with the conditional use permit it has in hand. The Planning Commission failed to approve a motion to approve that expansion by a vote of 4-4, which effectively meant it was...
 failed or could not advance. The issues at hand were similar to staff's concerns. The commissioners who didn't support it felt that with outstanding violations, the use should not be expanded. And then those in favor felt that a one-year expiration afforded the business the ability to expand or the ability to demonstrate that they could comply with their existing permit
 And I did send out to you all earlier today, just as a reminder, so you could have it in front of you. There are 15 conditions that staff does recommend the Council put in place with this permit, if you all elect to approve it tonight. The first of these is something the Council does not often see, but it's typical to the Planning Commission. Any conditional use permit begins with a determination that the use is compatible.
 from there the conditions outline several standards we expect and would see it being appropriate to making it compatible including about storage on the property its hours of operation additional screening on the property accommodation for parking maneuvering to address some of the comments we've heard from the public about traffic spilling out into
 School Avenue or trucks, excuse me, the trailers having to be stored outside the fencing on the property. And of course that the additional area of gravel that the property has used be subject to a retroactive development review to ensure that our standards for tree preservation and stormwater be observed.
 And again, the Planning Commission did feel that those commissioners that supported the condition use permits expansion did include an amendment to only allow that extension to go for one year, which staff does support. If the council, while staff feels the request should be denied, if the council disagrees, we don't feel as though it should be extended for more than a year.
 The hope is that that will ensure more proactive enforcement of the conditional use permit so it doesn't continue to be in violation and expand beyond its scope like it has for the past decade. With that, I'm available for questions and Chair Palbert, I believe, is present in person representing the applicant on this item. Thank you. Okay, with that, I'd like to speak for the council. You have 10 minutes.
 Thank you all so much for your time tonight. My name is Strip Albert. I represent Baum Recycling in this matter. As you all know last week, this was tabled. We took the opportunity to reach out to some council members during this time to kind of see what we needed to do to move forward in a progressive manner with this appeal. And so I talked to the applicant, understand where they're coming from,
 hear them out and we appreciate that and on behalf of my client, thank you. I even talked to a council member that mentioned what does Vaughn Recycling do for this community? And in a really generic answer I said they recycle goods. But I hated that answer and so I dug a little bit into what they do and how they do it. And I think Jonathan has a graph he'd like to show.
 Digging into about what how much how much goods are pushing through their business And on average year bond recycling typically recycles about 8.5 million pounds of goods That's recyclable goods that they have come through their door and they push out the recycling centers to be processed Mr. Mayor, would you like me to pull up the visual that the applicant has shared? Yes, I would. Thank you, Jonathan and
 In that time on the far right you can see that this year has been an exceptional year. We are on pace by the end of the calendar year to exceed 15 million pounds of recyclable goods. I say this 15 million pounds but what it equates to is about 57,000 pounds a day and these are all goods that are not going to the landfills that are staying in the recycling centers throughout the community.
 I wish I'd had this information when the Councilwoman asked because this is compelling. This is a business this community needs as it grows. Bond recycling is willing to grow with it. We are willing to do whatever we need to in order to move forward in a progressive manner. I know that traffic was an issue at our last meeting.
 The next slide will show that we have a plan. I sat down with the applicant. I talked to some council members here about how we can go about fixing this traffic issue. On the right-hand side or the south side of the building, you'll see that there are two lane traffic. In the last five, six, seven years, it got to where it was only one lane. There are three scales on-site at Vaughan Recycling. They're labeled there, one, two, and three, if you can see them.
 Scales one and two would be used to process smaller commercial loads, whereas scale three would be used to have big larger commercial loads pull around on the north side of the building to be processed as they come in. This would stop any congestion backing up on south school. Additionally, on the northwest part of the property, the applicant made another entrance.
 Councilwoman Bunchen, she suggested, you know, is it any way we can implement appointment times for these larger commercial loads? And initially, we didn't think the customers would take to it. But after reaching out to some of those larger commercial customers, they are actually open to the idea of scheduling.
 scheduling time for an appointment coming, having their loads processed sooner and prioritized, encouraging and incentivizing these larger loads to be scheduled all the time moving forward. Additionally, we know that, as you can see on the green line, that is the privacy fence that surrounds the property.
 We are willing to raise that privacy fence. We understand the importance of Walker Park. We heard concerns from the council that that privacy fence needed to be raised in order to hinder any visibility to and from the park. We understand as a community how important parks play in our community. And so that is something that if the council requires, we would be glad to comply with.
 On top of that, I did make my way down to Walker Park and walk the trail. The next image will show just an image from Walker Park's trail into Vaughn Recycling. And obviously right now everything's grown up, the vegetation's high, there's not any visibility in. Although we understand that winter is coming and soon those leaves and vegetation will fall and die. And so we also reached out to Ted Jack over at the Parks and Rec Commission.
 We mentioned that if that was something moving forward, we can work with the Parks and Rec to provide either more trees that would block visibility in and out of Vaughn Recycling, we'd be glad to do. There is about 60 or so yards between Vaughn Recycling's back fence and the creek. We think that there's ample room to provide trees if needed. And then lastly,
 We understand that this got out of hand. We understand that, and we apologize for that. We know that this is a business that can succeed given the opportunity. We are willing to comply with any regulations that this council seeks fit to move forward with. We would hope that moving forward, we can have a proactive relationship with staff and this council to make sure that this succeeds moving forward.
 With that, I appreciate it and I render all time back to the council. Here for any questions that you all might have. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? I have a question for the applicant. Yes. Thanks for coming back up.
 I didn't hear you address stormwater runoff, which was one of the reasons the conditional use permit was drafted the way it was originally. I heard you mention parks and fencing and visibility, but I didn't hear you mention stormwater runoff.
 Have you considered that? We have. I think it was five years ago or so that we worked with the EPA regulations to be sure that there are no contaminants running into it. No, no, no, no. You expanded into impervious area nine years ago and meeting the EPA regulations is one thing but you didn't meet our regulations and you didn't comply with our regulations that are in place for our MS4 stormwater permit.
 So, what are you going to do to reconcile that? When you say impervious area, the lot on 1236 is not impervious. It is gravel just like the rest of the lot on 1246 is. Yeah, everyone knows that when you drive semi trucks over gravel every day, day in, day out, it's not pervious anymore. It's packed down and any engineer will back that up. I guess one other question, I don't know why.
 You told us tonight that the company recognized that this had got out of hand and you apologized on their behalf, but I'm still wondering what your answer is for coming here and telling us that the expansion onto the north parcel didn't happen until COVID in 2020 when we have aerial photos from 2009.
 It just seems like bad faith. And telling us that you recycle all this stuff so we should just let you do it, are you saying that you can't do that without violating the law? No, and I think there was some confusion. I'm glad you mentioned that.
 At the last council meeting I think you addressed that there may have been some gross negligence there on expanding to that property. In 2008 when the city came down and asked my client to expand the fence on 1236, at that point there were metal on the ground and they had seen that and so maybe it was gross negligence that my client thought that once he expanded the fence on 1236, which
 I mean to our point he didn't have a conditional use to at the time but he thought at that point he could then expand his practice on to 1236. But what does that have to do with okay so fine he just makes a mistake nine or ten years ago or whatever but then you come here and tell us that the expansion actually didn't occur until 2020 when we've got the aerial photos and our planning and our development service director is telling us yeah we've got the aerial photos it doesn't match up with the report that we're being given.
 So, I mean, are we just being not told the truth or is there something that we don't understand? No, and I hope that it was not misleading to say that the expansion only occurred in 2021. My hope was to say that, and as the graph showed, that 2021 was an exceptional year. No, no, you came here two weeks, four weeks ago, and you said the expansion didn't occur until COVID started.
 and you wrote that in the report that our development services director has presented to us and presented to the planning commission from the beginning i'd say in you i mean i know that you're just doing this on behalf of a client but that's what you've been told to tell us and it just seems like a lie is it a lie did you not say it four weeks ago and in the report the expansion obviously occurred before 2021. it's nice to get that that clarified
 Are there any other questions? Not for you. Thank you. I'm sorry. I don't see how I can personally support this. I can't even support myself extending the CUP in any form or fashion for this property for a couple reasons. There's been bad faith negotiation with us, with the city. It looks to me like a lie, which doesn't sit well with me. But let's just say water under the bridge and we're going to move forward and see what we can do.
 If this is an essential business, we're presuming that they can't be replaced, we're presuming they can't be sold, we're presuming they can't be relocated, we're presuming that they can't even do this essential service without violating the laws. It reeks to me. There's no due process whatsoever. It's just pretending to be too big to fail.
 Meanwhile, it's next door to the park. And, you know, right now, as of today, it would be nice to have a higher fence, I guess. But, you know, who really cares? After 30 years, that's not what we're talking about at all. We're talking about the water quality of the region, of the creek having to dredge Lake Sequoia every five years at whatever cost it takes. This is what adds up. And we had these discussions in 2008 when we set the permit. I...
 i i just uh maybe it's a personal failing but i can't get over it and to top it off this isn't where we want an industrial process to happen in the city anyway our plans have changed the cup would not be granted if this was a brand new deal today so anyway i've made myself clear at least what
 your strategy as it relates to moving forward? I was there yesterday, I believe, and I got a chance to see the business for myself. And I want to say this, thank you for being a business here in Fayetteville, but the recommendations that were made, how are you, what's your strategy as it relates to moving forward and correcting some of those challenges?
 We anticipate having a strong relationship with staff, whether that be weekly or biweekly check-ins on progress being made moving forward to be sure that we are compliant with all recommendations made by staff. We are open to any and all suggestions here. Be glad to work with anyone on council or staff moving forward. So when you say staff, of course, that's city staff, right? Yes. Okay.
 have you addressed, have you fixed any of those problems since you were first notified of them? Yes, several. I guess it was back in July was when the problem all occurred.
 was city was notified of trackage being on South School Avenue we poured tons literal tons of gravel in the back twelve forty six and twelve thirty six lots
 On top of that, we have cleared out, as you were there yesterday, cleared out the debris on 1236. 1236 is a clean lot now. The only thing on 1236 are trailers that will be loaded and processed with these metals as they come in and then hauled out. Initially, or I guess additionally,
 My client has also talked about, we understand that logistics has been a problem, and not only a problem this year, but has been a problem over the past. And he has talked about hiring drivers and buying trailers to be able to transport metals out as they're filled up in the back lots, and then that way there's no placing blame on a third party that it's our fault if it backs up. How has COVID impacted your business?
 Well, it's, I mean, if you look on the chart, yeah, I mean, it looks like it's been great. Unfortunately, finding work has been hard. Moving metal has been impossible. We have struggled moving forward throughout this year. We're finally to a place, I guess, push comes to shove, but we've changed for the better. I think moving forward, we can continue to do that with this council's permission. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it. I have a question for the applicant. I know you met with Councilmember Jones and this is in Ward 1. Were you able to meet with Councilmember Gutierrez as well? I was. As we know, she's not able to be here for obvious reasons with her pregnancy, but she was in support of this appeal. She mentioned that she would like to be here to cast her support but obviously could not be. She was very adamant on placing the park first.
 which is our intention moving forward as well. Thank you. Thank you. One last question or comment, I guess. You yesterday when we talked, you mentioned that prior you've had conversations with individuals from the city and there was a, you felt that there was a lack of communication. So if you don't mind explaining that or elaborating that to the council. Yes, I'd be glad to.
 The lack of accountability on our part is on us. But this obviously has been going on for quite some time. And that being said, no one has taken note of it until now. And when it was brought to my client's attention, we have taken all steps to remedy this and progress forward. But, I mean, yes, I think that...
 Had it been made known to my client in 2009 that he needed to make an initiative to expand his CUP, he would have done so. Or he would have done it in 2010 if it was brought to his attention, 2015, 2019, but it was never brought to his attention. And admittedly enough, we're not all attorneys and we're not all familiar with CUPs, and I don't expect everybody to be, but...
 i that is where my client's position is right now is that he is sorry and that you know it was a mistake so it sounds like that there was a lack of communication because i remember you telling me that that's whoever was representing the city at the time just told you that everything was okay and that no changes needed to be made that that was my understanding is that correct
 Yeah, yeah, so that's correct. In 2008, when he was asked to expand the privacy fence to the front of the property, and there had been times that they checked back in on screening of the property to be sure it was not visible from the public right away, yes, we think there was some lack of communication on both ends. Excuse me, did you say one of the staff told you everything was okay in 2010? 2008. 2008. Yes, sir. How did the expansion on the property...
 Okay That you should come back when the complaint was noticed and lie to us about what year the expansion occurred to the Screen occurred later after 2008 the when the staff checked back in and asked clients to put screening up on the Fences on the public right-of-way side the west side. So the city staff told you it was okay but that was before you did the expansion and
 But then they gave you a boundary to go by, but you got beyond the boundary. Is that correct? I'm sorry, if you could repeat that one more time. They gave you an area to do your business in, right? Yes, sir, that's right. In 2008, correct? That's correct. Now, the point I'm trying to make here is you got outside the boundary, but that was your call to make, correct? Yes, sir, that's correct. Okay. Okay.
 Are there any other questions? I have a question for Jonathan if he's still on. Yes ma'am. Jonathan, Council Member Petty referenced a stormwater runoff problem. Is there any evidence of that recently? Has anybody been out there to look and see if that's still occurring? What's the status of that?
 I don't have any records of an explicit stormwater complaint, which is not unusual given there's no property, no private property downhill from this site. It runs directly into Walker Park before going into the Tanglewood in the park there. The planner who did visit the property.
 at the initial out or outset of this Complaint did note that the I could believe it's a buyer retention or a bioswale on the east end of the property did not appear To be in good shape So that's one of the conditions of approval that we've recommended and it's actually an active condition of approval the CEP that that will need to be addressed and considered because it does I mean as
 And I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point.
 i think one of the biggest concerns is the amount of gravel that's been put on the property it is correct that compacted gravel often has the exact same impact as asphalt or concrete on a site and with the amount of that has been put down which we don't know an exact number to it is quite likely that the amount of storm water coming off the property is fully unaccounted for as it is functioning today
 So, you know, I've been down there, but I have not been to the back part of the property. So has anybody actually been back there to look and see if that bioswale is not functioning or if there's active stormwater runoff or if everything is grown up and is actually not allowing any runoff to occur? Sure.
 Yeah, that was the perspective of one of our planners. I don't think they have the proficiency to say that it's functioning or not. That was just an observation on the property. One of the issues as a part of this violation is to evaluate that. So the short answer is no. I don't think a qualified staff member has been there to make that evaluation. Okay, thank you. I've got one question for the applicant. Okay.
 Well I guess too, is Vaughan recycling currently using the north lot day to day? Yes. If tomorrow you couldn't use it, would it cease to be able to operate? Yes, moving forward it would be difficult to operate just to the scale that it's become. Okay, that's all the questions I had for you. I've got some other questions and comments.
 I guess this is really for staff. Are there other recycling centers that cater to the same type of materials? I don't know if Jonathan would be able to answer that. I do not know. I'm sorry.
 I guess one of my comments then is that residential areas especially luxury apartments are definitely moving south from the university. I agree, I don't think we would approve this today if this wasn't there would we allow it now knowing that that's happening. Obviously gentrification
 a scary word but i'd rather gentrification of these apartments to come down and take out an industry and then move it somewhere else than to take out houses so um i don't want to see really this expand in this area because i think there's better uses uh for this they're moving south
 Traffic is an issue. I've driven by it probably 10 times since we've talked about it. A lot of times I've parked at the building next to it and traffic does come into the street and cause issues there.
 I think the most I'd look at is maybe expanding that north part six months while they try to figure out How to not use it or move somewhere else I'm concerned that just like they've done with the time they've had now they did they haven't figured out how to do it without it they just hope that we would approve the north side and and
 So that is my only concern about giving six months is they'll just keep doing what they're doing and in six months expect us to go ahead and give us that north side. But right now I'm either a no or maybe six months to figure it out. I have a question for the applicant. So in the aerial views that we see and we see how this has just grown and grown and grown over time, did it always start out with things that would be...
 more recycling of an industrial type nature or was it usually, did it start out as a smaller scale and advance into things that required, you know, people bringing big semi trailers in there and stuff like that?
 That's what has happened to it or? It has, yeah. It has grown since its conception. Obviously, clients have, or customers, have continued to come back. But yes, initially, I don't think that they thought that there was that big of a need for commercial types of recycling and recycling.
 Apparently there is. So when we talk about commercial types of recycling, what are products that would fall under that category? So that question may be better for the actual applicant here.
 I know that they do a lot of business with plumbers, electricians. As far as their recyclable goods go, I don't know if it is recycled steel or copper or aluminum. But yes, I know that it has grown, obviously, tremendously from its conception. So I'm thinking more along the lines of
 machinery, automotive parts, things like that that would might leak oil into the ground or something like that that could over the course of a long period of time you know contaminate the ground and run off into the creek eventually. So that's kind of what I'm thinking about and I didn't know if you always started out a
 accepting things like that or not? So I know after our conversation we had yesterday that whether if there's any liquid in recycled goods, whether it be a motor or whatever it is, it's all drained off-site. Bond Recycling doesn't accept there to be any liquids in its recyclable goods, such as car motors and something, you know, of that nature. And so, and additionally, yearly they're required to send off tests to a lab, and they're run off in Springdale.
 and they have they've done that and been compliant with the past I Guess 13 years since they've been there and which would have been important to know earlier Okay, so how is it that they were compliant with that for 13 years that they knew they were supposed to do that But they were not compliant with the CUP during that same time frame Well, I mean, I mean to me. I'm kind of thinking I
 know, I know this is a local business, I have used them myself, but I'm also thinking that, you know, they just kind of, you know, if they can keep up with that testing of the ground every year, I don't know how they can, cannot keep up with their conditional use permit. And maybe it's apples to oranges, but yeah, they were able to keep up there and not be knowledgeable on violating their CUP?
 you know i can't can't speak to that but okay thank you thank you
 I have one more question for the applicant. So the testing that was done at that lab in Springdale, that was required by Department of Environmental Quality or was it some other federal entity, state or federal? I am not sure. I was just made known that they send it off every year. I'm not sure to what lab, but if that is some information that the council would like us to provide, we'll be glad to. Okay, thank you.
 what other questions do we have from the council what if the expansion is is not granted what are your plans um i mean we would we would be forced to move without that north north parcel we wouldn't be able to keep up with business keep up with the demand of customers and we would be forced to
 find a new location whether it be you know not in fable maybe it would be northern rogers or wherever that may be but okay so moving would be would be required okay so that's another so that would be a another a challenge for for fayed bill concerning small businesses right i mean that could that could potentially be that could yeah okay thank you thank you mayor yes
 You know, I'm sitting here looking at the city website where they have the aerial photographs of the property over the last many years. And really, it wasn't until 2021 that there was just this vast explosion into the north area. So the reason there probably wasn't complaints and such in the past is because the difference between the aerial photography...
 I can't say, in 2020 and 2021 is, it's incredible the difference. So, and then if you go out there now, it's more like it was, it's halfway in between of what it was between 2020 and 2021. I just don't see how on earth that that, in a year that someone that was at the business did not say, you know, guys, we really have a stockpile of junk
 On that north end, we might ought to move it on. I mean, just looking at the photographs, it's incredible, the difference between the years. And then the fact that they cleaned it up to a degree in the last several months. Obviously, there was a place to take it. I don't know. It seems like there was a business model that missed the opportunity to keep up with the
 their conditional use permit. You know, that leads me to believe it was an irresponsible business. And I want to think that this, I take things there too, and I didn't really think that much about it because I never see the North End. You know, that's vast.
 If I may respond. Sure. Yes sir. So as discussed in 2021 obviously was an exceptional year for numerous reasons but one being that we struggled to get trucks in and out. Over the last
 I guess three months now that bond recycling has almost shut down their business. I know that there might be some smaller residential to come in and drop off some some goods but for the most part they've turned away a lot of business going to other recycling centers so they could get it cleaned up and as far as the logistics go, I mean they had to hire private drivers in order to get it moved and
 Well, I wish I had the confidence in the future that they would be attentive to their conditional use permit and comply because there are conditions. That's just what it is. This is a business that I'm very fond of. I know that the Vons have been here for a long time and very much in the community with business activity. There is an emotional connection.
 side of me that wants to support someone that's been in the community for a long time and they are this is a business that Does good as you said it's just the way the business was run seems to be Irresponsible and we would love the opportunity to show the council that we can comply moving forward. I
 Whether that be a year, whether that be six months, we would like to show that with that northern parcel, there will be no metal or goods on the ground. As goods come in, it will be processed in a trailer and hauled off accordingly. And we hope that we get that opportunity. Thank you. Thank you. What other questions do we have from the council?
 Last one, hopefully for me, for staff. If we didn't grant the appeal on the north end, how long would they have to return that to whatever state that it needs to be? I mean, obviously we're not going to go there tomorrow and be like it's not cleaned up.
 is that a week is that a month so if we we deny the appeal how much time do they have to clean that up not the whole thing because obviously there's a conditional use permit that's for the south side but from the north side as soon as it appears that no progress is being made or all avenues have been explored we typically give 30 days before an item is forwarded to the prosecuting attorney of the city at which point it's in their office to take to court okay thank you
 Anything else from the council? So I have some questions for staff here. So Jonathan? Yes, ma'am. Oh, there you are. Okay. So one of the things is if this is approved, the bioswale needs to be re-evaluated. Is that correct?
 regardless of whether this expansion to the conditional use permit is approved that needs to be evaluated that was a part of the original conditional use permit for the southern parcel any additional improvements for stormwater would be tied to them using the northern parcel all right jonathan you supplied the city council with a list of several conditions and i noticed that when we drafted the
 resolution it says it ends the section one that if this is going to be the appeal granted and the conditional use continued that there are it will be with the following conditions is it your recommendation to the council that before they would vote one way or another they would add the conditions that you have submitted to them I think there might have been 15 conditions and
 including that it would only last for one year and they would have to return to the Planning Commission to see if the Planning Commission would agree to extend it. But are those the conditions you submitted to the council for their consideration? Yes, sir. So we would need, before the vote on the resolution, we would need a motion to amend the resolution to add those conditions. Okay.
 So what page of our packet are the 15, wait, the 15, which one? Okay, okay. So sent in an email, it's not in our packet, is that correct? It is in your packet under the report that went to the Planning Commission. It was also sent separately this afternoon. I found it now, thank you. I was just trying to figure out what page it was on. Okay. Okay.
 Well, I think it's imperative that we add those conditions because at least it gives a little more guidance on what kind of business operation that needs to be happening in this property.
 Would it be appropriate for me to go ahead and ask for this amendment? I would like to move that we amend the ordinance to include the conditions in the report. Second. I have a motion and a second to add the 15 conditions, and this is for one year, if I remember correctly. Yes, as stated by Jonathan in his email to the City Council. Okay. And this is conditions of approval for the north lot or the both of them? Because I'm...
 One of the conditions is that the existing, all the conditions of the existing conditional use permit would remain in place. So it captures that and the other 14 are in addition to with the last one from the planning commission being to only extend it for one additional year if approved. And at the end of the year what would happen? The it would go, sorry did Mary did you answer?
 So what would happen at the end of the year if it's extended, it goes back to planning, they have to move, what is it? It goes back to the Planning Commission. They evaluate issues such as compliance, whether the conditions of approval have been met, which includes retroactively submitting the property for the necessary development approvals. Okay, okay, thank you. Okay, would you have a motion or a second to pass the 15 conditions?
 Now, would you all like for me to take some public comments somewhere along the way? Or do you want to, do we need to vote on that first and then take public comment, or do we? Yeah, probably ought to go ahead and get it amended and then have public comment for the whole resolution. Okie dokie. Do we have any discussion on the amendment? No.
 I have one question maybe this is back to Jonathan I don't have the 15 items right in front of me but I'm wondering if if part of that is an inspection like a monthly inspection that can be conducted by the city so there's an ongoing communication that is included in those conditions that is not in there right now no
 As a friendly amendment, could I move to add that? Well, I think so. As their representative said, they felt like it was a communication problem. And if they had to communicate with the city every month as a requirement, then that might open up some really good communication channels where everyone would get a good result. I think that it's a responsible thing to do. So yes, a friendly amendment.
 i don't know if i was the second but i'll keep my second if that's not it thank you so we have an amendment on the amendments well if the uh motioner original motioner says that's a friendly amendment there does not need to be a vote unless someone objects you're just going to plug that in there right yes i don't know who seconded it was it so that will be included okay okay okay
 May I ask what will be included because I heard about communication first I heard from Teresa perhaps a monthly inspection by staff but then I heard from Mark a communication from the applicant to staff on a monthly basis and so that's an entirely different scenario which. I think they need to communicate to the staff. Thank you.
 I guess my original suggestion was that somebody from the city actually go out there and inspect so that they could communicate right there on the spot and Say this corrective action needs to happen or or whatever so that that's what I was Suggest I would anticipate that also because if you're not on the spot Not as effective and I know this is a 12 additional tasks for staff
 but in this case i think it might be an important task it is a big issue that we have the creek right behind it and that we must have we must handle the runoff and that has to be part of what's looked at when someone goes out there and it it's a concern so yeah i think someone should go out there once a month so that that would be the intent of the the motion well we'll do the best we can
 Mayor Jordan, there was a question just a moment ago about who was the second and I have that as councilmember Scroggins I'm good with the changes and still second. Okay Okay, let's vote on that care which please call the roll Eddie yes Scroggins yes Yes, sir. Yes Hertzberg yes
 Jones yes Kenyon yes okay now let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the council chambers after that Susan who do we have on Zoom
 nobody mayor okay who would like to address this in the change can't bring you back to the council this is a resolution one comment that I'll make a motion
 You know for me what we've heard just doesn't pass the test it needs to pass for me and the core argument that seems to be kind of aw shucks we were running a business or you know we weren't paying attention to the CUP or you know we're not lawyers we needed lawyers or even well it was the city's job to watch us all the time and make sure we were doing it to me just sound like kind of poor excuses.
 the kind of excuses I might hear whenever I said to somebody, hey, would you do the dishes a little more often or even? Or I just don't understand how it's possibly the city's fault. And so all I can think of over and over again in my head is fool me once, fool me twice. And so I'm going to vote against this. For procedural purposes, I'll make a motion to pass the, how would you like to do that, to pass the resolution? Second.
 Okay, what other final comments do we have in the council? I've got a couple of things. Jonathan, would you show me those aerials again, please? Yes, Mayor. I'll be one moment. We've been a while on it. I can wait. Okay, take me where we started in 2008. The upper left-hand corner. And then we got 2009. Now, this was where it started, and this is where it ended up in 2021. Okay.
 I'm going to tell you, I do take a little bit of offense saying that my staff does not communicate. After you've started with what you know you should have done, but you didn't do it. You broke the ordinance. And this is what we ended up with in 2021. Now, to say that my staff does not communicate, I can assure you one thing. If this passes the council, you'll be communicated with. We'll keep a very close eye on you. So, yeah.
 I want to apologize to the staff for that kind of remark being made to them because I've got a good staff that works very hard around here to keep up with all this stuff. So I'm going to apologize to the staff for those kind of comments being made to them. Now, I've had several complaints about this piece of property, and I haven't said anything. And it's because of all the stuff that's piled up in front of it, all the stuff that trailers being parked on the sidewalk, chunks of mud being slung all over,
 College Avenue. I thought, okay, it's a business, all that kind of stuff. And then we find out that they have not lived up to their part of the bargain. And that's okay. These amendments it's putting on here makes me feel a little better. But on a very short leash, I think, and I drive by that property every day on my way to work and back home.
 So it's not like I've not seen what's going on over there. But that all being said, the reason we do these conditional use is you have an agreement with the city to do certain things. And when you don't do that, then you basically have broken your word to the city. That's not something I particularly care for. And I certainly don't like remarks being made about my staff like that. And I believe that's all I have to say here. So if there's not any other final comments,
 Kara, would you please call the roll? Petty? No. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. The appeal is granted then, and the conditional use continues, but with the new conditions as stated by the city council. Yes, and we'll be sure, council, we keep an eye on this piece of property.
 Okay, let's move along to number two.
 An ordinance levying a tax on the real and personal property within the City of Federal Arkansas for the year 2021, fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund, 2.5 mils for federal public library operations, and 1.2 mils for the federal public library expansion, and certifying the same,
 to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Warren?
 and ordinance levying a tax on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2021, fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations, 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund, 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund, 2.5 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library operations, and 1.2 mils for the Fayetteville Public Library expansion,
 and certifying the same to the county clerk of Washington County, Arkansas. PAUL BAKERLIN- Each year prior to the end of October, the city must send a request to the county for the extension of property taxes for the next fiscal year. We're requesting 6.8 mils, the levy down property taxes. It's the same tax that we've had in place since 2015
 which was extended in 2016. So these are the same property taxes, no property tax increase. Those taxes to be broken down are for library operations and debt service 3.7 mils. That was set by referendum. Also, .4 for the old police pension fund. That's before the Lot B-1 fund was established. And .4 for the fire old pension fund.
 The pension, or excuse me, the levy for the general fund for the City of Fayetteville would be 2.3 mills again. That's the same levy that we've had in place since 2015. So this is not an appropriation. It's not the expenditure to, expenditure request. It's setting the levy for the 2022 budget. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 What questions do we have for Paul? Okay, let's take some public comment. This is just on the millage. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken and a savings of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the council chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Susan. Susan.
 Okay. Who do we have in the council chamber that would like to address us on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the city council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What's the wishes of the council? What action or discussion would you like to have? I move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Erk. Yes. Erksberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. And your next living attacks on the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2021.
 Fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mills for general fund operations 0.4 mills for the firemen's pension and relief fund 0.4 mills for the policeman's pension and relief fund 2.5 mills for the Fayetteville Public Library operations and 1.2 mills for the Fayetteville Public Library Expansion and certifying the same to the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas Okay any final comments council
 okay care which police call the roll petty yes scroggin yes punch yes kirk yes herzberg yes jones yes canyon yes okay let's go number three before we go there i want to be sure there was actually 16 provisions in the
 that is correct you added you added one more i just wanted to be sure monthly investigation or well that would make it 17 i think if we're if we're looking at the same memo because the 16th one was to do well maybe you're right i don't have it in front of me now but i i did a minute ago and i wanted just to be sure
 Oh, the approval expires after one year and permit is subject to revocation. That's number 16 on the memo. Okay, well, there will actually be 17 because it's everything that Jonathan gave you plus that one more. I just wanted that to be on the record because it needs to be accurate. Okay, thank you for calling this to our attention. Okay, well, let's move on to number three.
 an ordinance to amend 71.065 general speed restrictions of the federal city code to establish a default speed limit of 20 miles per hour in residential and business districts this was left on the first reading um at the last city council meeting i will entertain a motion to go to the second reading so moved second we have a motion to second to go to the second reading care would you please call the roll eddie yes
 Scroggins yes bench yes yes Hertzberg yes Jones yes Indian yes and Norris amend section 71.065 general speed restrictions of the Fable City Code to establish a default speed limit of 20 miles per hour in residential and business districts okay Chris
 thank you mayor as we discussed last time our current ordinance has default speed limits of 20 miles per hour in business districts 25 miles per hour in residential districts this proposed ordinance will
 unify those and provide for a default speed limit of 20 miles per hour in all areas of the city. This again is only for areas that are not otherwise signed so it doesn't doesn't impact speed limits on on our major routes and other locations that have specific speed limit signage. This was reviewed by the Transportation Committee in August and they unanimously voted to recommend approval of this ordinance.
 And again, just to reiterate the answer to the question about cost, we do have about 1,200 to 1,500 of these 25 mile per hour signs. Not all of them would be replaced immediately. They could be replaced over time as they need replacement. But that represents about a $20,000 to $25,000 cost to the budget if we did go out and replace all those signs at once.
 i think that's it i'll answer any questions what questions do we have in the council so if we vote for this will all of them change or is there some discretion by staff well i mean technically if we don't change them out then they will remain at 25 miles per hour so i expect we will get you know some neighborhoods that will want us to do that immediately um
 But we we what we would do is again as part of our yearly signage inventory, we're always replacing signs. So we would replace those as we as we go. And again, if we get specific requests or other problem areas, that'll be a tool that we can use. But it's not something we're going to go out immediately and begin replacing every single one of these signs.
 Yeah, I mean I guess my concern is the other side is maybe there's places that we don't need to go to 20 that should stay at 25. Is there a discretion to stay at 25 if it makes sense and who would make that decision because I sure don't want to go out and make the
 Yeah, absolutely. There certainly are some areas that are signed. And one that springs to mind is Shiloh Drive in front of the Target and Coles area. That's actually signed at 25 miles per hour. That doesn't really make sense to be reduced to 20. So it's not something that we just wouldn't take that sign down, wouldn't wouldn't replace it or remove it.
 So yes, and I guess maybe to answer the question more fully, there really are two ways that we can set speed limits by code. One is just as a statutory default limit, as this ordinance would do, and the other is based on the actual traffic speeds. There's a method for determining what the appropriate speed limit is based on actual traffic flow. So we would use one of those two methods.
 Okay, I'm glad you brought that street up because I always thought that that was too low. I think that at least until you hit that corner, it should be almost 40. So good. I'm glad to see that y'all would have some discretion that they don't all have to go that way. I also had the same concern and it's interesting you mentioned the speed limit at Target. I guess a lot of people in Ward 2 or several have been ticketed there and
 they had a concern. And does it go to 20? And then is it, the perception, a speed trap? You know, I don't think that that's the way we run our traffic division of our police department. But because there is a speed limit, then that's what it is. But I do think there needs to be some kind of matrix that's understandable in place when you're going from 25 to 20.
 because maybe 20 like We heard maybe 25 is appropriate. So I and I kind of like to see some statistics. What is the difference? really statistically in going from 25 to 20 what statistically, what is the benefit in accidents between cars and cars and pedestrians and and
 I'm not against a 20 mile limit. There are areas right now that have a 20 mile limit around schools, and that's important. But I also think there has to be a way that you can explain why it was important to go to 20. And that's what I, you know, it was brought to my attention, and I do think about that.
 to be sure that every 25 mile an hour zone did not go to 20, and also if it goes to 20, an explanation of why. It's always affiliated with ticketing and the people that I've talked to, not safety. I would like to know from a statistically valid point of view the safety by the reduction. And I don't even know if that's possible, but I wish it were.
 So that's my concern as we move forward to be sure that we implement it. I'm going to vote for a 20 mile per hour speed limit, but I want to know how it's implemented and always have some sort of support so I can tell people why that it went from 25 to 20. And I just think that's what I would have to...
 have in front of me that's what i would like thanks yes teresa i have a question for chief reynolds um because i'm wondering how um changing lowering this from 25 to 20
 will impact the traffic load, the load on your officers in terms of speeding. And then we'll also definitely have to get a lot of publicity out there and education about this change to get compliance. But I wondered if you had an idea what kind of impact this may have with you all.
 Well, certainly, as Captain Renfrow mentioned last week when we were talking about the STEP grant, one of the main complaints that we get at the police department is speeding. And I'm sure that that's one of the main complaints that you get as well from your constituents. And, you know, how do we resolve that speeding? I've worked with each one of you, each council member, on, you know, long-term solutions to that, traffic calming measures, things that we can do.
 to try to gain compliance with that. But to answer your question, Council Member Turk, I'm sure that we will see an increase in those complaints because it's certainly difficult to go 20 miles an hour and 25 mile an hour zones
 Certainly, you heard me talk about the lack of capacity that the police department has and the things that we're dealing with, the priorities with the increase in violent crime that I mentioned. And so we would just try to do our best to prioritize that with the capacity that we have and address those complaints as they come in and certainly work with the transportation division and traffic calming measures that we can use. The STEP grant, as we talked about last week, has a speed display sign in there that we can purchase
 We put those out at various locations. They're in all of our school zones as well. So there's a lot of things that we could try to do long term and also using the two motorcycle units that we have and directed enforcement and also utilizing that STEP grant as directed enforcement efforts as well. That typically when we change the speed limit in areas, we usually have a 30 day grace period before we do anything as far as enforcement action with a citation, we utilize warnings.
 And the police department certainly tried to show a lot of grace through the pandemic. Generally, we are warning drivers at twice the rate that we do issuing citations. So today we're sitting at approximately 4,800 warnings and 2,400 citations for moving violations. So we're taking that into consideration, a report that we put on our website every week and that I share every Monday morning with the mayor. And we cover that as well.
 So you think even though this will amount to more citations or warnings and more workload for your officers, you'll all be able to handle that even though you've got less staff than you've had in the past?
 Well, I mean, you know, as the population grows and the demands go, we'll do the best, as the mayor said just a few minutes ago, you know, as we were talking about, we'll do the best we can. And that's all that I can promise the council is, you know, we'll certainly do the best that we can as a police department to meet those demands for services. And we'll just prioritize based upon demand.
 you know, the calls for service that we're dealing with. And I can certainly give a report back to council on how we're doing, but it's hard for me to speculate what impact that that would have. I can only say that it would increase the demand for the services that we're already experiencing. You've heard me talk about a 10% increase in calls for service just over the last 18 months. And so certainly this is just going to continue to do more and more or put more and more demands on our police department. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Yes, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to take a second to answer the question about statistics. Just in terms of what we were presented at transportation committee, we saw a few different things with the one that really stuck out to me was the statistical review of the severity of injury as it relates to speed.
 And what was remarkable to me is that it's not linear. It's got a much more pronounced relationship where the difference between 25 miles an hour and 20 miles an hour, when a pedestrian gets hit, the chances of them dying, of it resulting in a fatality, drop by half. And that is the main motivation for doing this. This isn't to have to write more tickets or to get to write more tickets. And this is really about...
 the majority of our streets that happen to be unsigned. Most of our street miles in the city are not signed with a speed limit. And so I think it's absolutely correct that this is the beginning of an educational effort
 and some enforcement and our officers will play a role in that like they have in past educational efforts for particular areas but this is really mostly about the unsigned areas um and getting people to drive to drive slower in areas where we're seeing more pedestrian and cycling activity and i think it's it it was interesting to me and and helped me see the reason whenever i ask myself
 When you look at those streets that have a 25 mile an hour sign, right, that's the default. So why do we need the sign? Well, the reason the sign goes up in almost all those locations is because we have a speeding problem and we're trying to solve it through signage. And it usually doesn't work. We have to change something about the street design.
 But those places where we're putting up those signs even for 25 miles an hour have a Speeding problem that isn't solved by changing the speed limit or by doing more enforcement. It's not a long-term solution and so I don't think anybody should have any illusions and
 that everyone in the city, it's so silly to say, is just going to start driving 20 miles an hour, or that we're going to write tickets to everybody that's driving 22 miles an hour. That's not how we operate the city. But for people who are walking or who are cycling near, you know, adjacent to traffic or in their own neighborhoods on their streets, like if you live on a through street in a neighborhood, the difference between 25 miles an hour and 20 miles an hour is,
 is pretty darn significant in terms of a trip to the hospital or worse. If I could go on for just a second, if we're talking about emergency response, emergency responses to severe injuries are usually a lot more research intensive than emergency responses that only require a report. Yeah, I'd be glad to see some speed changes.
 Signs don't change at all. We've got to do some other stuff, but You know in the last 12-13 years I've been in the city I've seen a significant increase in the amount of people that walk
 We've also seen a significant increase in the amount of people on small motorized things, whether they be small scooters or skateboards, sometimes skateboards mounted with motors. But as those increase, we've got to start slowing down the speed of the vehicle so that those collisions don't happen as much in the future.
 Speaking of exponential growth, I'm seeing exponential growth in the people that are using alternative methods to get around and that's a good thing. Anything else? This did go to the Transportation Committee, correct? It was a unanimous vote, correct? Yes. Okay. All right. Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration Going into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on topic No rude behavior Please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those are in chamber After that who do we have on zoom soon? Janine Perry? Okay, go ahead. Hi. Can you hear me? Okay? Oh
 Yeah. Hi. My name is Janine. I live at 303 East Sutton and have been a resident of Central Fayetteville for 20 years. I'm sorry, I'm having a little bit of trouble hearing you. Okay. Let me try, should I just speak more loudly? Is this better? Yeah, that would probably be helpful for me. Okay. Maybe the younger council folks, it won't be a problem for them, but I need a little help there. Okay.
 so i'm also a political science professor with a specialty in state and local government and i'd like to speak and speak in support of the proposal i run cycle and walk a lot i average about 30 miles a week mainly between the washington willow district and the u of a campus i also several times a week use the trail and the hot crossings that have made this community so desirable consequently i stand at college avenue's intersections with maple lafayette or dixon street multiple times every day
 And for several years I did that holding the hands of the children I walked to Washington Elementary on my way to and from Old Main. That's all to say that I interact as a pedestrian with motor vehicle traffic more than most. And I've come to understand most drivers just don't know how menacing their behavior often feels. They simply have no idea what it's like to regularly put your own body or your child's body in front of their 4,000 to 6,000 pound machines. And there's a good reason to feel scared of cars.
 Despite the decline in average miles driven last year, pedestrian deaths are at their highest per capita since we started keeping track in the 1970s. Arkansas, while mercifully not in the lead on this measure, is in the top third for pedestrian fatalities. The reason is that for a century, we've put the responsibility for pedestrian safety onto pedestrians.
 We've built communities as if no one would ever traverse them by foot or bicycle again, with no sidewalks, few crosswalks, poor lighting, and as many as eight lanes of traffic on local roads, roads designed solely to move motor vehicles as efficiently as possible. We've put it onto walkers, runners, stroller pushers, and cyclists to exercise vigilance and hope for the best.
 That is precisely why most of the people who die as a consequence of being struck by a motor vehicle are the elderly, the disabled, and the poor. Many communities like ours are reconsidering this approach. We now recognize that there are four levers we can pull to reduce pedestrian fatalities. One, we can reduce the tremendous weight and height of our average vehicles, a task suitable for really state, federal, or industry action.
 Two, we can improve infrastructure to facilitate safe passage for people using various kinds of transportation, something you're doing, thank you. Three, we can discourage driver and pedestrian impairment that seems to require a multifaceted approach. Four, we can slow vehicles down.
 As ProPublica's excellent and widely circulated analysis from 2016 revealed and Mr. Petty referenced, the average adult runs about a 10% risk of death if struck by a moving vehicle at the current limit of 25 miles an hour.
 That risk more than doubles if the vehicle is traveling just five miles per hour faster, which appears to be the actual average at most times along College Avenue, as well as along Lafayette, down the East Dixon Street Hill, and if it's just before 8 a.m. or just after 5 p.m. along Willow Avenue and other wholly residential streets.
 Please drop the local speed limit for motor vehicle traffic unless otherwise posted. Please increase the odds that if a human body is struck by a vehicle, even when traveling the legal limit, it still stands a good chance of surviving. Thank you for this time and thank you for your service to the community. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? No more on Zoom. Does anyone in the chambers like to address this on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 uh this is an ordinance it's on the first it's on the first reading no i'm sorry it's on the second reading excuse me um what's the wishes the council what discussion or action would you like to take move suspend rules and go to third and final reading second we have a motion second to go to third and final read care which please call the row petty yes scroggins yes bench yes
 kirk yes erzberg yes jones yes canyon yes an ordinance to amend section 71.065 general speed restrictions of the fatal city code to establish a default speed of 20 miles per hour in residential and business districts okay
 What final comments do we have in the council? I have thank you mayor. I have a question I just tried to look through the packet here and I wondered if the Transportation Committee or others had if there was information on the fatalities that were in Fayetteville like in the last five or ten years and if so were those in speed zones around 25 miles an hour I'm just wondering if there has been a
 It's been at higher speed zones or really that's been where our fatalities have occurred Was any of that information presented chief? It's got something on that. We talked about that the other day Councilmember Turk, I'm not sure that I can give you the last ten years I can certainly give you the last couple of years which I
 I'm happy to report in the last year, year to date, when you compare today 2021 compared to today 2020, our fatality accidents are down 77%.
 That's a difference from 9 to 2, so that's 7. Our property damage, I'm sorry, our personal injury accidents are down 25%, which is a difference of 57. So that's 223 versus 166.
 Unfortunately, our accidents are up, probably as a result of the COVID overall accidents. What we're talking about is an increase in just property damage accident, not personal injury or not fatality accidents. So total, we're up about 12% on our accidents, which is a total number of 228. To answer your question, I'm not aware over the last two years of any of those 11 fatalities that occurred in a 25 mile an hour zone.
 so just to be clear they were in a different traffic zone 35 40 miles an hour something like that yeah i'm not aware of that i don't know if chris brown or the transportation division may have more statistics on that but that's all i have as of today okay thank you anything else
 I mean, I'm going to support this, but we talked a lot about, we just have talked a lot about survivability, and I'm just wondering where those accidents have occurred in the past. So going slower is always better, but it's really important to identify if we're going to be able to save lives or have less injuries when we take this kind of action. So thank you. Okay. Anything else? Okay. I have, I just have a point.
 We talked a lot about signs, but this is actually 20 miles an hour where there's not signage. And that's where I think the education has to come in because if there's no signage and you're going over 20, you're breaking the law. And so when we look at the impact of this legislation, it is the default.
 Signage is important. Some of it will need to be changed to 20 from 25, but it's the default that is kind of curious because I don't know a lot of people going 20 in default areas and it's I think there's a concern that They're not going to slow down anyway. They're just breaking the law. I don't know and
 i mean i'm going to support this but it i do need to point out this is the default this is not a signed speed uh street that has a sign on it anything else
 Sorry, I have one more thing. I just, this is going to affect, like you just said, areas where there is no signage. And we're going to really need to have a big PR educational push to ensure that our citizens understand this change. So I hope that everybody's prepared for that so that we're not catching people off guard. Again, slower is better, but we need to make sure that they're informed about that. Thank you.
 thank you we'll make sure anything else no i think the education is important uh you'll have people call and complain about the speed other people are going and then they send out a cop and sometimes the cop catches the person to complain because they don't know what
 25, 30 miles per hour actually is and so I look forward to that education because people just don't know 32 in a car feels way different when you're in the car than 32 feels like when it's driving by your kids. So hopefully we do start having some of that education. I've actually asked sometimes my friends to drive by and they drive by me at 25 miles per hour so I kind of have an idea and it always feels faster.
 when they're driving by, so hopefully we have that education. I'll say that since we've discussed this at transportation, I've started trying to be a little more conscientious about my own driving. Fingers crossed I don't get pulled over tomorrow or the day after. But it is possible to drive through a neighborhood at 20 miles an hour. It does work. You can get where you're going and it does work. So, anyway, thanks. Anything else?
 Of course, there's folks like me that don't need to drive over 20 miles an hour. Nobody rides with me anymore. Staff always says, don't worry about it, Mary, you relax, we got it. Okay. Any other final comments? Okay. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Batch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Indian. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. That takes care of old business. All right. Moving along to new business. Number one, a resolution to approve an extension of the city's sewage system beyond the city limits to property located at 1776 North Foxhunter Road. This was introduced by Council Member Gutierrez and Council Member Jones. I understand. Hey, uh,
 i would appreciate it if we would send it to the water and sewer committee because i would would like for them i'd like to hear what you all got to say about it if that's permissible just uh table it i guess for two weeks and then uh i make the recommendation that we table the discussion for two weeks and send it to the water and sewer yep thank you yeah second
 i really like stuff like this going to the water and sewer committee to look things over okay that being said care which police called row yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all thank you deandre all right number two
 An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 21-043 located at 2828 North Crossover Road for approximately 3.58 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to P1 Institution. KIPP.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural to P.1. Institutional.
 section two that's the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay jonathan thank you mayor this property is in east fayetteville south of crossovers intersection with old wire to the north it's immediately south of the williams dance studio if that helps orient you a little bit more closely uh
 It's currently developed with parking begins crossover road as you move east through the site There's a 15,000 square foot building that was built in the early 2000s as a church After that is another tier of parking spaces and then Onto the eastern portion of the property. It's almost entirely under tree canopy with a significant slope down to Flynn Creek which is a stream that's subject to the streamside protection standards and
 the building. The development on the property or the church's development on the property was associated with a conditional use permit that was granted in 2000 which allowed use of the building to include a child care. That was amended in 2008 when the charter school was intended to locate in the building where it was allowed to have up to 150 children in grades 9 through 12
 As for the request before the Council tonight, the proposal is to rezone it from RA residential agricultural to P1 institutional. The reason a conditional use permit was required in 2000 and an amendment to it in 2008 was because the RA Agricultural Zoning District does not allow institutional uses like churches and schools by right.
 Staff does find the request to be compatible from a land use perspective. As I noted, it is already developed as a church with parking between the church and the street and also to the rear of the building. This is a layout that is consistent and complementary to the dance studio to the north.
 Additionally, the use of the property as pretty much any institutional use permitted under P1 can be complementary to the almost uniformly residential area surrounding the property.
 From a long-range consideration, staff's findings were a bit more mixed, largely due to the varied future land use map designation on the property. The majority of the site is designated by our future land use map as residential neighborhood area, which is intended to promote a wide spectrum of residential uses, but also those that are complementary to residential uses.
 The flip side of this is the natural area on the property on our future land use map, which mirrors the Flint Creek's floodplain. Those areas are intended to remain undeveloped or used as minimally as possible. The applicant has indicated that they would like to preserve that as an outdoor classroom.
 Staff does not find that the P1 institutional use conflicts with this necessarily. There's a significant slope, again, bisecting the property from north to south, varying from about 30 to 60 percent slope down to that floodplain associated with Flint Creek, making viable development there limited to non-existent.
 Similarly, staff found that the request generally lies with our city plan 2040 goals. This is largely because the P1, or generally lines with our city plan 2040 goals, but not fully. This is largely because the P1 zoning district offers very limited palette of uses. It's again, things like schools, churches, museums, parks.
 Whereas our city plan goals would indicate that it may be more beneficial to have a wider spectrum of uses. That said, staff did give deference or more weight to the fact that the property has been used for two decades now as an institutional use.
 And it may be appropriate additionally to that reason the property to P1, given the low infill score, which is kind of contrary to what you may be thinking as being used as a school as the applicant intends to do could complement future development in the area and justify more intense development alongside with the proximity to a fire station with its great response water and sewer.
 uh city park and trail that are nearby as well in hearing the requests staff did receive some public comments this was also made at the planning commission
 This largely revolved around concerns about privacy. A property owner to the north who has owned the property for some time but recently redeveloped it is concerned that the use of the rear of the subject property as a playground will represent or compromise the privacy they have where their house is located behind William's Dance.
 They also had concerns about screening and there being a fairly low fence separating their property from where the school is proposed. And also there were comments about tree removal, which on that subject, it is worth noting that both the RA and P1 zoning districts do have a similar or identical tree preservation standard of 25%.
 All told, staff does recommend approval of the request. We lean fairly significantly on the historic use of the property without having any documented complaints in association with the church, its child care, the school after that, and what has become a school use today.
 At the August 23rd, 2021 Planning Commission meeting, however, the applicant was not present to speak to the request or to questions that arose from public comment and the Commissioner's site visits.
 uh these included again some of the trick clearing uh issues that were brought up uh questions about fencing as i noted they the intent is used the eastern portion of the property as an outdoor play area but it uh it's not currently fenced off and there's concern about children wandering off the property uh additionally there were concerns about whether the current school is operating legally from a zoning standpoint
 T. And also with these overall questions, would it be more possibly appropriate that the property or the school should be operating under a conditional use permit rather than allowing it? The site be rezone to P. One which would allow the school to operate under the simply under the standards of our development code. This would be
 This has been difficult for some schools in the areas to operate. Some continue to operate under conditional use permits, typically private schools. Some have found that burdensome as it requires them to come back to the planning commission every time they'd like to change their curriculum or add students or add faculty or add onto the site. And so the applicant's request is to rezone it to P1.
 Ultimately, without answers to the planning commissioner's questions, they moved to deny the request, which carried by vote is 7 to 1. And with that, I'm available for questions. And I believe Alan Mazzanti is in attendance as the applicant, either in person or virtually. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 first i'd like to thank jonathan at the development services department for assisting us in this process as well as recommending the approval of our application now i don't necessarily want to rehash everything that jonathan said he said it very eloquently he was very thorough i do want to highlight a few things
 So the property was developed 2003. As he said, it was developed for a school or a church. The property was designed and built out in that manner. It is very unlikely that the property could be used for almost anything else. The proper zoning in Fayetteville for both churches and schools is P1 institutional.
 which is, as I said, the proper zoning for what the property's been used for for over two decades. Now, Jonathan also indicated that when this went to the Planning Commission that unfortunately I had some vehicle problems and was unable to attend that meeting. Regretfully, I believe had I been there, I would have been able to address all of those concerns, and I'm happy to do so tonight with the Council.
 Now, one of the concerns, at least from the public comment section, was, as Jonathan indicated, a neighbor to the north who expressed concerns on the basis of privacy and safety. That privacy concern was the back property that was historically unused by the church.
 was cleared of some privet and other invasive species of property under just general maintenance type duties. Nothing, no trees, mature trees or anything else was taken out. There was a site tour, I believe, yesterday and a couple of the council members were able to attend.
 And I think they can attest to the fact that no mature trees were taken out. The back of that property is still under a large shaded canopy of mature trees. The only thing that was taken out was just brush. The neighbor also had a few safety concerns regarding the fencing. Jonathan also alluded to those fencing concerns by the Planning Commission.
 The back area, and while it is our plan to use that as a, almost as an outdoor classroom, as a playground for the children to be able to play, DHS is still in charge of that. We have to get approval by DHS prior to using that area for those purposes. One of the requirements of DHS is that the property be fully enclosed by fencing.
 So that is a safety concern, I understand. Again, if I had been at the commission, I could have addressed that. That is something that will be addressed by DHS. It's inspected prior to them giving us any type of usability to use that property in that manner. So while I understand the commission's concern there, that is something that would be addressed by the Department of Human Services.
 Now, I know not all of the council was able to go to that site tour. Jonathan, if you would, could you bring up some photographs? These are photographs of the property line, which is of issue. I assume that the neighbor to the north, this is just the photographs. Mayor, would you like me to pull that up? Yes, please.
 keep in mind now you have a 10 minute time limit yes sir about six minutes left yes sir uh and this is just the photograph of that fence line this is i believe this first photograph is of the um i believe this would be the west side of that that fence um jonathan if you'd go to the next one uh actually i apologize this is the east the the photograph before was the middle that is the middle this is the the beginning of that fence line
 and I believe the last photograph kind of gives you a view of kind of the fence in its entirety. That's kind of that fence line right there. You know, the neighbor obviously is expressing concern about having privacy. If you look hard, you can kind of see some structure through that tree, those trees.
 I've talked to the neighbor and we, I believe, have addressed those concerns. I believe we're going to have a privacy fence installed along that fence line there, either extending the current fence up to six feet or replacing it. So I believe those concerns would be alleviated.
 I don't know of any other public concern or public comments that need to be addressed. So with that said, I believe, you know, I would be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or staff?
 I've got some questions for staff. What else could be built here under P1? So, I mean the question is how big of a building can be built back there? What uses are allowed?
 The, I guess starting with the uses, it is mostly educational, religious institutions. That includes, of course, things like you could do in elementary school, junior school, high school, or excuse me, junior high or high school. It could be a daycare. It could be a...
 like a fitness club could be built on the property, a church or synagogue or mosque. It could be used for something like a cemetery. All these fall under our institutional classification. A hospital, I think would probably be the most intense that someone could imagine, or like a community center. As far as the standards on what can be developed there, the P1 zoning district has
 Stephen Pyne, Setbacks that are fairly similar to the RAs zoning district. So the building as it sits today largely reflects those which is likely how the parking got ultimately was was built in front of the church instead of to the side or rear like the city would would generally like to see these days.
 So there's a 50 foot setback to the front. There's 25 foot setbacks when it's adjacent to residential property. And there's a 25 rear setback, which are basically the overall standards of where on the site of the building could be set, which again has to be with consideration for Flint Creek on the eastern side of the property.
 And then the P1 zoning district also has a building area maximum of 60%, which does not include things like a solar, ground mounted solar, which is one exception to that. Okay, I guess this might be a question for you or Kit. Can we rezone the building and such and then keep the same zoning for the backside? I assume the current zoning would allow what an area where kids can play.
 The answer your first question first, a property can be split zoned. The council has sometimes seen this, particularly on properties with floodplains. We've used our zoning as something of a holding district or an open space district in places where it's not likely to become an agricultural use. That would require a a legal description from the applicant for us to make sure it's done properly. Mr. Williams would have to speak to whether how that can be done by exhibit as for.
 moving the school use to that portion of the property. I think that gets a little bit more nebulous in the answer. When you have uses accessory to another use, typically the whole area being used for it needs to be zoned similar to permit it and the agricultural zoning district does not currently allow things like schools, playgrounds, and the like. Okay, thank you. Other questions do we have?
 Can I speak to the question Mr. Scroggins asked about the property, the two different zones? Well you've got about two minutes left on your presentation so I will allow that. Okay, thank you. The back of the property, if you were to walk back there, and I didn't include a photograph of this, but if you walk back there I believe Ms. Turk could
 Attest to the fact that there's about a 30 maybe a 40 foot drop-off right there on the backside of that property that renders the Back portion back there that is in the floodplain all but undevelopable I can't imagine how many loads of dirt it would take to try to raise that up But it would probably be more than 10,000 So I don't believe any
 aspect of that could ever be developed. You can't develop nothing there. I saw that yesterday. Too steep. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You're welcome. Okay, any other questions from the council for the African R staff? Maybe I could just do a summary of our tour yesterday for everybody. Holly and I and the mayor were there, and it was, I really appreciated the tour because you really got an idea of the landscape of the area. Yeah.
 the back portion of where they would like to use that as a playground area is full of trees it's it's rocky relatively flat but then just like the applicant mentioned it drops off significantly before it hits the creek i mean it is a very steep decline over there and it is it's not usable i
 i at least that i could see for any other kind of development uh it's full of trees there's invasives in there it's it's very densely full of vegetation right now so just to give you all a perspective it was it was a very good tour and i appreciate the applicant allowing us to tour and jonathan for organizing that thank you anything else
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, which is the...
 the appeal uh no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the council chambers after that susan who do we have on zoom nobody mayor okay who would like to address this in the chamber yes please come up introduce yourself and give us your address my name is dennis nelms and i live at 287 north crossover i'm the uh i made the comments
 um to staff but um since we've pretty much resolved most of the issues that i personally had um and had no never never intended or tried to in any way to oppose the zoning it seemed to make the most sense to me so i just wanted to let you guys know that okay thanks debs you're welcome thank you for being here i appreciate the comment
 Any other, anybody else from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council or what action would they like to take? I just wanted to say also I appreciate somebody sitting through this entire meeting to tell us that. So that was a long haul. So thank you.
 On the actual item, you know, I do have concerns what's gonna be built in the back if they decide to, but I'm listening to my fellow council members. They seem to believe that that's not an issue. So I think I'm ready to move this forward. So I'll move to suspend the rules and go to second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Kerry, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes.
 Scroggin? Yes. Bench? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-043, located at 2828 North Crossover Road, for approximately 3.58 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to P1 Institutional. This is an ordinance that's on the second reading.
 Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Butch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Jones.
 In order to rezone that property described, a rezoning petition RZN 21-043, located at 2828 North Crossover Road, for approximately 3.58 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to P1 Institutional. Okay, this is an appeal. Is that correct? So someone would have to make a motion.
 to pass the appeal and then they would vote against the appeal is that correct no actually this is just an ordinance mayor even though it is on appeal it is an ordinance and so if they want to rezone the property they would vote yes okay okay i just saw the word appeal up there and i wanted to be sure every i was tracking it is an appeal the planning commission turned it down and so the applicant then appealed to the city council but it is a standard ordinance okay cool
 all right any final comments from council okay care which please call the room
 petty yes scroggin yes bunch yes hurt yes herzberg yes jones yes canyon yes okay thank you all moving along to number three an an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn21-063 located at 820 west kelly street for approximately 0.55 acres from rsf4 residential
 single family four units breaker to our IU residential intermediate urban yeah sorry be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes its own classification of property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RSF for residential single family four units per acre to our IU residential intermediate urban
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in north central Fayetteville. It's about one mile due north from the main University of Arkansas campus on Leverett Avenue. It's one block north of Sycamore on the northwest corner of Kelly and Leverett specifically. It includes two parcels, of which one, the westernmost, is developed with a single family home.
 The request tonight is to rezone it from RSF4, residential single family four units breaker to RIU, residential intermediate urban to develop the property with additional housing. Excuse me.
 Staff found the request to be compatible with existing properties. It currently straddles a stark divide in both zoning and land use terms in Fayetteville. To the east is the single most densely or capped and dense allowance residential zoning district in Fayetteville where it's some residential multifamily 40 units per acre where it's developed with apartments, which immediately segues into the neighborhood to the east.
 which is zoned for four units per acre. It includes detached single family homes. Staff's contention that rezoning the property to RRU would allow a much more logical transition rather than using a street as a dividing line as using the first lot or two in a property to transition into the neighborhood.
 And as a reminder, I know we staff, I brought it up a few times. Our IE was intended to, despite its name, not necessarily be an intrusively dense zoning district, but to be one that can be complimentary and promotional of infill. It even has a building height cap that is lower than RSF4 against the street before segueing to the same mirrored three-story allowance as you get further into the property.
 Similarly, it does again only include two parcels. And whereas RU has a perception of unlimited density in its allowance, this is fairly comprehensively capped by a lot of other standards in our development code, including our stormwater standards, our tree preservation standards, and our perhaps more than many others, our parking requirements.
 From a long use or long range plan perspective, staff on the request to be consistent. The future land use map designates this as a city neighborhood area, which is intended to be a much more mixed area of both densities and intensities and land uses. This RSF4 zoning district today only allows single family homes and at a very low density at that with access to the.
 close water and sewer, a grocery store, parks and trail with the Razorback Greenway a few blocks to the east, transit along Leverett and close proximity to the fire station further south on Garland. Staff found this to be an appropriate location for infill and, of course, represents a converse of the other goal of city plan, which is to disincentivize or discourage suburban sprawl, rather.
 That said, staff did receive a few pieces of public comment before the Planning Commission meeting. These, I believe, were from residents in the neighborhood to the east and north who had expressed opposition to developing this site with multifamily homes.
 I think I mentioned this at agenda session, but it may bear a distinction again that in Fayetteville our distinction between multifamily homes and other types of attached housing is five units. In the RU zoning district, multifamily developments are only allowed as a conditional use. I realize again that that's not necessarily a distinction that a lot of laypeople do recognize. RU does allow one, two, three, and four family attached dwellings, but it does not allow
 apartments in the development code since the word. With that, staff does recommend approval of the request. The Planning Commission agreed unanimously forwarding it to the Council with a recommendation of approval. The conversation was fairly brief with it largely revolving around the site being an appropriate location for infill development and some additional housing.
 and i'm happy to take questions from the council and i believe justin kohler's intended to be here as the applicant i'm not sure if he's in the chambers or online thank you okay would the applicant like to speak to the council you have 10 minutes so there's nobody on zoom there okay what questions does the council have for the staff then yes
 Mayor, I need to disclose that I own a house, a rental house, about a block and a half away from this property, just for the record. Okay. Anything else? Does anybody else have anything? It's getting a little long, isn't it? What questions do we have? Any other questions from the council? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Okay.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone from public or any council member stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address Those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those there in the chamber after that So who do we have on zoom Susan? nobody No, nobody in the chamber. So I
 unless chief would like to speak on it or something all right okay so i'm going i'm going to bring it back to the council
 I'll ultimately be for this. I mean I don't know if we'll vote on it tonight or not, but this makes sense to increase density here. Somebody living here could easily ride one of those scooters I was mentioning earlier with a motor all the way up to the university and not add to traffic. There's a lot of services in this area. This is a good opportunity to
 This makes sense. This is appropriate and Phil, we're not talking about a massive multi story thing here. You know, five, five to six stories is just I think this is the appropriate zoning here. Okay, what other discussion or action items would the council like to take this is an ordinance on the first reading?
 um as i mentioned i do own a rental house in that uh in that neighborhood to the west of the proposed rezoning
 that neighborhood is is very stable so i could see why there would be opposition it does seem that the riu is a transitional zoning between the high density on the east side and the stable family neighborhood on the west side so i just wanted to comment about that neighborhood as being
 stable it's probably those houses were built in the 1960s and 1970s and for the most part they're still in really good repair and usage thanks and so what shall we do second motion second to go to the second reading care would you please call the roll Eddie yes Dragan yes yes
 Yes. Herzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-063, located at 820 West Kelly Street for approximately .55 acres, from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 Move to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-063 located at 820 West Kelly Street for approximately 0.55 acres from RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. What final comments do we have in the council on this? Okay, Kara would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance in the way of competitive bidding and authorized purchase of new vehicles to various manufacturers, authorized dealer networks, but to require informal quotes or bids for similar vehicles and to authorize the mayor to execute any agreements necessary to participate in government fleet programs. Kipp?
 Whereas new vehicles are available at a discounted rate directly from various manufacturers' authorized dealer networks through government fleet programs.
 And whereas not all dealers are part of an authorized dealer network, and using the government fleet programs ensures consistent pricing and includes other benefits like technician training, access to available inventory statewide, increased standard warranties, and discounts on diagnostic software and parts.
 and whereas dealers do not have pricing prior to an ordering window, which is often not open long enough to complete the full bidding process, and the pricing that would be submitted in the bidding process will be the same as through a government fleet program, and whereas authorizing purchases through the government fleet programs without competitive bidding will allow the fleet division to place orders within short ordering windows,
 Purchase existing inventory when available. Obtain quotes quickly from different manufacturers based on the specific needs of a division or department. And ensure staff has the equipment needed to maintain a high level of service to Fayetteville residents and businesses. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding, and authorizes the purchase of new vehicles through the various vehicle manufacturers authorized dealer networks, and further authorizes the Fleet Division to solicit informal bids or quotes prior to the purchase of vehicles without the need for further approval by the City Council.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign any agreements or documents necessary to participate in the government fleet programs Okay, Sarah. Yes. Good evening mayor and council we have discussed prior to this how difficult the industry is right now and obtaining both parts and vehicles and
 and this is an example of that situation. Just two weeks ago we came to you with a resolution to be able to move forward quicker than our typical system and purchasing vehicles off of contracts and other national type contracts and this is an ordinance to give us a little more wiggle room. After that
 resolution was passed. The very next day was a perfect example. Typically once we have an item passed, it takes roughly maybe five business days to get a purchase order issued. We had a
 contract price for some Chevy Silverados. And I was able to, I'm going to say pester everyone enough to get that purchase order issued by the end of that day. And I submitted it to our vendor
 that evening and he received it the following morning and the window closed before he could place that order that morning. So in situations like that, this ordinance would allow us to go through our fleet order.
 government discounts, which is already what our vendors go to to get their prices for our bids that we would issue. And we can go to them directly and we can see what their price would be if they were to bid. So it would be the same price that they would offer at a bidding. However, we can also now see what is even available to order. So this would give us an advantage as far as, again, timeliness.
 and we would still be comparing prices as far as, what is still available. It may now because Chevy and other GM products have started closing their windows. And may only be a Ford versus a Toyota or something. Whereas normally we might be able to have a wide variety, but that's the essential basis of this ordinance request. Okay, what questions do we have from the council?
 Sarah on this one. Okay. Did it go through the equipment committee or did this go through the equipment committee? We spoke about it at the equipment committee, but we didn't go into great detail. We did not ask for a vote at that time. Oh, okay. Okay. It was just an informational item then for the equipment committee. Correct. Okay. All right. Do we have any questions for Sarah on this? Okay. Pretty straightforward actually. Okay.
 Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into seven segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any city council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then
 those that are in the council chambers after that. So I assume we have nobody on Zoom. Nobody. Okay, we don't have anybody in the chamber. So I will bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, it's on the first reading. What action are discussing this council is to take? So I kind of mentioned earlier, we've got some discussion about trying to act quickly and giving time to review stuff, obviously with the pandemic.
 The windows have changed so I will be supporting this. I think Sarah's done an excellent job and fleet I think this is needed, but I hope that we get to undo this at some point Because we should have a longer process discuss What we're purchasing but right now we need vehicles to run the city. And so I
 Definitely will be supporting this. I hope we get it through tonight. I do have a question. Do we need an emergency clause to enact this? Hopefully before we leave. No, a bid waiver is is not a general ordinance. It's more of a specific ordinance and therefore it is effective immediately without a bid without an emergency clause. Okay, awesome. Like I said, I plan on supporting this and
 hopefully in a year 18 months whatever we'll get to to undo this and go back to uh where everything kind of goes before council and we have these longer windows so we're just kind of where we are right now yeah sometimes it's just time to act and mayor if i can make another comment um some of this is just basically vendor or manufacturer by manufacturer um
 We have experienced really finding out more about our industry because we found out that Toyota has a window each month for various items, whereas a lot of manufacturers open theirs just all at once.
 so we're definitely finding out different things at different times and so far we're we're still on track we can still purchase what's needed but i do have items that i will be emailing to our equipment committee that we hope to move forward with purchasing even tomorrow based on if this is passed or not so there are windows closing every day this is an ordinance it's on the first reading
 council actions and discussion more discussion doing somebody yeah i move we suspend the rules to go to the second reading second again we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading care would you please call the roll eddie yes scroggins yes lunch yes turk yes herzberg yes jones yes canyon yes
 In order to waive competitive bidding and authorize a purchase of new vehicles through various manufacturers authorized dealer network But to require informal quotes or bids for similar vehicles and to authorize the mayor to execute any agreements necessary to participate In the government fleet programs. I move we suspend the rules and go the third and final reading Second motion second go third and final reading care. Would you please call the roll? Eddie yes
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herb? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to waive competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of new vehicles through various manufacturers authorized dealer networks, but to require informal quotes or bids for similar vehicles, and to authorize the Mayor to execute any agreements necessary to participate in government fleet programs.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. What announcements do we have?
 Mayor, I have a few announcements. I'm sure that City Council would like to join all of us in congratulating Council Member Sonia Gutierrez and her husband, Brad Harvey, on the birth of their baby girl, Clara Elena, last night. Well done, Sonia. Moving on to a few items of business today.
 We've extended a public input speak up survey or just public input opportunity on South Fayetteville and Martin Luther King jr. Boulevard walkability improvements we'd encourage anybody who's interested to please get online and offer their feedback on the different options that are expressed on that website
 page. We also, Christina Jones in Parks is asking for any folks who would like to participate in some volunteer cleanups at our lakes. Pick up where you play. We do have our first volunteer cleanup. We'll be at Lake Sequoia this Saturday. Then subsequent Saturdays we'll have Lake Fayetteville and Lake Wilson. And the sign up and the details are on the website.
 And then finally, we're in the middle of the fall bulky waste cleanups. This Saturday will be Ward 2 pickup. And again, details are on the website. Thank you. Anything else? Thank you all. Good work. We're adjourned.