I would like to call to order the City Council meeting for October 3, 2023. Care which please call the roll. Funch. Here. Kirk. Hertzberg. Here. Jones. Here. Moore. Here. Wiedeker. Here. Burnham. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America,
 of the United States of America, and to your honor, for which it stands, one nation under God, in the midst of all liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone.
 We have a presentation of distinguished legislature State representative David Whitaker David's not with us right now So we're going to go on into the consent agenda and then we'll come back when David arrived Okay, I think Paul might have a financial report. Yeah, I got it Paul you had financial
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of August. So that's month number eight in fiscal 2023. In the general fund, as we talked about the last time, sales tax was a little softer the month compared to what it's been. It's still up about 3% compared to budget. All in all, year to date,
 is up just under 8% on a year-to-day basis total sales tax into the general fund franchise fees are up 6% alcohol and beverage taxes and licenses are up roughly 13% license and fees are up 14% the primary driver of that is our the
 The building permit sets up 14% at this point in time. That'll probably pick up between now and the end of the year. Usually toward the end of the year it picks up a bit, and that's what we're projecting. Intergovernmental revenue is down about 2%. That's state turn back. Basically, that should level out and hit budget. By the end of the year, charges for services were down 4%. Some of that is parks, some of the parks programs.
 aren't as attended as what had been projected and things of that nature. Interest was up, again interest rates are rising so we're doing better than we had in a long time. All in all the revenue to date in general funds up about 6.4%. Now we had talked once before about looking at the sales tax and
 If we were looking at only sales tax to cover the salary increases that we presented and you're approved early in the year, that metric I was looking for was a 9.2%. The sales tax increase, again, we're hitting about 8% at this point in time, so we're down a bit. However, the other revenues are up and up a bit.
 it should cover it. So I'm not concerned about that at all at this point in time. So the general fund's doing well at this point in time, up 6.4%.
 Street fund, we're looking at street fund for the last couple of years. Street fund was up pretty well. Right now it's leveling off. It's pretty flat. It's up about 1% at this point in time. So it's still doing well. Parking fund's down 6%. It's actually the parking fees down in the entertainment district are down a little bit.
 Again, that's down 6%, but when I look at the expenses and cover it at this point in time, revenues are covering expenses at this point in time, so that doesn't really concern me. HMR funds, HMR funds are holding up pretty good. Remember, restaurant taxes have been up, as have hotel and motel receipts, so it's up 9% at this point in time compared to budget, so it's doing well.
 Water and sewer is kind of leveling off a bit right now. Again, we're pretty flat to budget. We're up about 1% in total for water and sewer.
 Trash and recycling is down 3%. Remember we had the transfer station down early for a couple of months in the year and that has affected overall. Also some of the recycling costs that we get on especially cardboard, glass and things of that nature are down a bit. So trash and recycling is down 3%, but that doesn't really concern me that much at this point in time again compared to expenditures we're doing fine at this point in time.
 The airport we're looking at now, fuel sales are down about 24% compared to last year on a dollar basis. Flights are down. Flights are down a bit. They're down about 8.2% flights out of the airport.
 The sales have leveled off in June and July in the summer months. And that means that mostly the traffic being used is from local and not some of the bigger flights and more traffic coming in from other parts of the state and other parts of the country.
 When I look at revenue, again, like I said, the fuel sales are down roughly 24% at this point in time. However, when I look at that and I compare back to what our expenses are, again, we're doing fine at this point in time. We're a little up.
 so a little surplus at this point in time, so I'm not concerned about that right now. So all in all, we're still doing well through today's month of the period. We've still got four months to go in the fiscal period, and I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the financial report? Anything? All right, let's go on to the consent agenda.
 Number one, approval of the September 19, 2023 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to award bid number 23-29 to authorize contract with D.C. Sparks Construction LLC in the amount of $491,000 for the expansion of the fleet shop, which includes a project tenancy of $63,803.
 Number three, a resolution to approve change order number one with Flintco LLC any amount of $1,703,019 for work associated with construction of Fire Station 2 and to approve budget adjustment. This is 2019 bond program. Number four.
 A resolution to approve the purchase of one caterpillar backhoe loader and one caterpillar excavator from Reeds Caterpillar Equipment for the total amount of $221,563, plus any applicable taxes and freight charges presented to a source wheel cooperative purchasing contract and approved budget adjustment.
 Number five, a resolution to authorize the mayor to accept a grant any amount of $500 from the Step Into Swim grant program through Pool and Hot Tub Alliance and to approve budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to approve two
 month extension of the pump rental from jack tyler engineers incorporated being used at the greg avenue sewer lift station for a total cost of forty one thousand six hundred and seventy five dollars number seven a resolution to approve purchase of document and records management
 services on an as-needed basis from MCC I ll see pursuant to an omnia partners cooperative contract through November 30th 2025 in any future renewal periods and number eight a resolution approved the reviewing and updating of the federal fire department administrative Policies I will entertain a motion except consent agenda is read so moved second Except consent agenda is read
 Kervitz, please call the roll. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Okay, well, I guess we'll move on to unfinished business. Hang on.
 All right, a resolution to authorize the mayor of the city of Pebble to purchase real estate to be returned to the NWA Black Heritage Association for restoration, redevelopment, and advancement to the African-American community and to the vibrant and thriving district it was meant to be. This was tabled, and we're bringing it back again, and I'll turn it over to DeAndre.
 uh thank you mayor jordan and city council members uh as you all know that this has been tabled and uh for tonight and i do believe we have emma willis emma is a consultant for the applicant and mayor jordan we would like for emma allow her a few minutes to do a presentation to the council um
 Council members, you should have all received a packet in the mail outlining the proposed district. Emma is going to share that information again tonight, and she'll also add some details to it. So we want to make sure that you all have the opportunity to hear from Emma, ask any questions, and then...
 she will advise us on the next steps. What, how much time are you, are we looking beyond that? How much time do we normally give for presentations? Well, usually about 10 minutes. I think 10 minutes, yes or no. Okay, she doesn't need 10 minutes, so. Okay, well, let's, we're going to give you 10 minutes, and if you need more time, we'll give it to you. If you need less time, then we're done. Okay.
 To City Council members, the Honorable Mayor Jordan, thank you all for allowing me this moment to speak to you all. In the last couple days, I sent over a document, which is a summary of the vision for the historic Spouse Spring community, also known as South Fayetteville.
 And the lines have been defined within this document. I want to make sure everybody knows exactly where the boundaries are for this respective project. And what we are requesting is that we are given ample time to do this in an actual orderly fashion and respect the protocols of the state as well as the city.
 When I received this project, I did review the June 6th meeting and I advised my client that maybe we are not looking to have the city purchase property and turn it over to the nonprofit for the purpose of historic preservation. Instead, what we believe is a more reasonable approach is to look at the progressive nature of the city of Fayetteville.
 Understand who you have historically been in the black narrative here in the state of Arkansas, whereas most of our counterparts here on 49 were sundown towns. Fayetteville allowed for black residents to take refuge, to build homes, and to have a quality of life.
 And because of that, we think it is something that is worth being preserved. And because of that, we are seeking to come back, be partners with the city, and draft a resolution that would allow for a local historic district. We do understand the implications of creating a historic district, but I also lined out in that document what the benefits are for creating a historic district.
 And as we look at that Spout Spring community, we understand that it works directly in line with the master plan and the vision you all have for the city of Fayetteville. That looks like economic recovery, housing development, as well as anchoring a few facilities in that space that will allow for tourism and us to stabilize the tax base. And so we've given a great deal of thought, but now we are asking for, respectfully,
 time to be able to bring forth a resolution that will stand and allow for Fayetteville to be submitted as the progressive city that we know it to be.
 Councilman DeAndre Jones, my request tonight is that we table the original resolution indefinitely and that we get partnership from the City of Fayetteville to be able to draft the resolution that we think is becoming of the City and its future goals. Thank you. Okay. Any questions for us? Yes. Okay.
 Yes, Emma, thank you for your presentation. If you don't mind sharing with the council members and the city of Fayetteville, what are some of the next steps? Can you describe some of the next steps? And as it relates to presenting a resolution with a
 better understanding. Yes, so I will let you know that my first steps in this process was to review state law as well as any of the city's ordinances or laws that are associated with historic preservation. We are required to get signatures above the majority.
 That district has been outlined in everyone's packet. It's also a matter of public record now, so anybody that would like to review it, they're able to. What we need is a little north of 360 signatures at this point. We are currently drafting that strategy where we will work with community members.
 community stakeholders to actively begin the process of signature collection. From there, we will submit that necessary document back to the city. Again, making sure we are staying directly in line with what the state and the city requires. We will seek guidance from your city attorney's office if there's anything else that is required.
 of us, but for right now that is the next step. We will also conduct a number of city or community education nights for the purpose of bringing every community member that is noted within those parcels up to speed on what the implications of creating a local historic district are. But this is an opportunity to set a precedent.
 And the reason we're requesting partnership here is because this is not usually a conversation we have when it comes to preserving black spaces or historically black spaces. And so I see it as an opportunity to, again, live in the spirit of the city of Fayetteville, ask for community engagement and partnership and draft something that I think will really show the rest of the state and this country what it is to really know our history as well as preserve it.
 So we will follow those steps. Emma, as it relates to the signatures, those signatures, the signatures needed, right? They have to be from people that are residents who live in that facility, correct? It's correct. And those parcels are listed in that document. At this point in time, we've already began strategizing on how we collect those majority signatures.
 And it will be a series of community events that will allow people to ask questions, further engage us, give us a few ideas on how they imagine this. But this is such a significant undertaking. It doesn't just stop at the historic district. It's an opportunity to revitalize a community. And it's one that I think is really near and dear to the hearts of the city.
 And we just want partnership. I mean, the signature collection is one step, but it's the step that is required. So again, it's just one of those pieces of protocol that we must follow, and we will do that.
 And my next, I guess, question or even comment. You've been working with the Attorney General's Office, correct? So we've gotten comments in from the Attorney General's Office that was shared, thankfully, by the city of Fayetteville on what is required for historic district. I did have an opportunity to sit down with Ms. Britton Bostic, and she gave me direct feedback as to what's required for us to be able to make this happen. We intend to follow the letter of that outline.
 I don't see any reasons why we can't. I won't be asking for any special consideration. It's completely doable in my mind. That brings me to my next point, and thank you for providing this information. My next point, of course, is city staff involvement, city staff engagement. You mentioned Britton and how she's helped. So how would you describe that relationship?
 It was very inviting. I mean, I will have to say Fayetteville is one of my favorite cities. I'm a Rogers girl, but Fayetteville actually is really attractive in terms of the personality, the people, the innovation and the progressive thought. And so Britain was really receptive and warm, sat me down and showed me, honestly, a great deal more history about the area, the significant individuals who've been through here and just, you know,
 honestly, the charity of the community in order to bring more people into a space of being educated at a time when they weren't able to receive that. And so, again, it's been great working with you guys so far. Well, we certainly appreciate Britain as always. And in the packet, you identified some very popular communities.
 And I would like to reference Tulsa. And can you explain that to the council members? Yeah, and forgive me for using language like public-private partnership or any of those things, but it happens. And the city of Tulsa, we all know, was riddled with a massacre that left a great deal of their black residents dead, displaced.
 and that those who stay behind are still working to rebuild what was Black Wall Street. However, through public-private partnership, the city area philanthropy and the community came together to be able to raise back up what was the historic Greenwood District.
 And that would be similar to what we will be seeking here in Fayetteville. There are enough people that really do appreciate Fayetteville, its position in the Northwest Arkansas region history. And we look to those places for guidance. And so our conversations have been big. We've contacted Tulsa, the City of Kansas City, and their historic 18th and Vine District.
 the project in Houston, which is independence. And it's really about what each city had to do to innovate or create an opportunity to preserve these spaces that are in everybody's history. And all
 although we're not Tulsa, can you kind of explain to the council how that district has, how it continues to benefit Tulsa? Yes, so the lure of a historic district is always tourism, right? To know who you are is to go to those places and hear firsthand or even be able to walk through the archives of the people in the places that existed. Tulsa
 It was not an overnight thing. Let's just also be clear. What we see in Tulsa today is over time, the right leadership being in place and people having a true vision for their city, where they were able to come around and come together and reimagine that space and tell the story of those who've gone before them.
 They anchored the area with some very critical pieces, and that looks like your Greenwood Museum, Greenwood Rising, which, as you all know, if you hadn't been there, you actually should go. But tourism is at the core of that district. It ushers in millions of dollars in terms of historic, I mean, in terms of tourism revenue annually. It also has been able to recreate housing and create spaces that allow for people in various stages in their financial life.
 to be able to inhabit it. They have churches, they have a baseball field that comes in and also anchors in and has a very entertainment district feel to it. But they're able to embrace their history, encourage others to come in and be a part of what it is to heal,
 And it's a beautiful thing. Similar to 18th and Vine, Jazz made Kansas City and barbecue, it's not the best barbecue, but they can barbecue and jazz makes Kansas City what it is. And they were able to embrace that through the 18th and Vine Jazz Museum as well as the Negro Leagues Museum that is there. And again, it's our history.
 We have a tremendous black archive right now that's housed at the University of Arkansas, so there's no shortage of history we can tell. It's really about putting it in a place where everybody can go and consume that knowledge and be a part of what has made Northwest Arkansas great.
 You mentioned the economic impact, right? And I think we all know the challenges that South Fayetteville continues to face as it relates to economic impact. So could you explain to us how that could help with the challenges?
 economic impact? What impact would it make for South Fayetteville? Yeah, so as you go through that document, there's one fairly significant piece in there, and it's the Afrofuturism Museum.
 We are looking to take this work and creating this historic district and anchoring it with a very significant piece of architecture that will not only uplift the African American story, but also what Afrofuturism is, which is the bright future. It can be anything you imagine.
 What we imagine will happen here in this historic district is that through the development of spaces like a museum, we'll be able to drive additional tourism dollars into the city. And because of that, we should have an opportunity to project more building in terms of homes and houses. I know we have a housing shortage here
 In Northwest Arkansas, I think that corridor is perfectly suited to be able to do that. There are still plenty of spaces that would allow for that to happen. And really, at the core of this, we want to stabilize our tax base in that area. We really wanna get
 to the point where we're contributing, we're allowing for more to be imagined over in Ward 1, and because of that, we put in the Afrofuturism Museum. We also noted the historic Jefferson Elementary and some potential use for that. We've taken some time to sit down and talk with them. But it's a community that's willing to innovate to help solve for some of the things that are ailing right now, the city of Fayetteville, and I know housing is one of them.
 This is my last comment. I want to say thank you so very much for your hard work. This is very comprehensive. I do believe that it has initially there was concern as it relates to what we could or couldn't do with this project.
 It sounds like you've really, as far as legally, you've really dug deep and you've defined what we can do legally. Yeah. And so I really appreciate that. That should answer a lot of the questions that many people had. I think that, of course, we know with projects like these and any project, they're always...
 ongoing questions, but I do, I would like to ask the council member said if that comes up then you have Emma's information Please feel free to reach out to her directly to ask her anything that you would like to know.
 emma's open to meeting and um so emma i do appreciate this and i know that there are many citizens who are looking forward to everything that you've said and so thank you thank you all for your time i appreciate it thank you very much uh what comments questions you have scott i just wanted to number one applaud you for the approach that you have taken uh for this uh meeting tonight
 But secondly, I want to clarify, is it your request to indefinitely table this resolution?
 Yes, so for clarification, I do know there's amending protocol to resolution. And so in order for me to get to the next meeting with you guys, I'm asking for it to be tabled indefinitely. Just do know I will work expeditiously to get something so it's not long and drawn out. This is me asking for the time necessary to bring forth a new resolution that states the things that I listed out in that summary. Okay, so I guess my question, since it's going to be substantially
 different the existing resolution compared to what your your email to us yes sir stated does this resolution really need to go away and then a new resolution with your proposal be brought forward thank you
 Yes, and to your point, just allowing it to sunset and then
 as you mentioned writing a new resolution and um based on the most recent and updated information documentation that's our goal okay we'll make sure you're okay yes thank you mayor georgia
 I think Theresa pointed to you. We're both referring to each other. Thank you, Theresa. Thank you very much. I really appreciated the packet. I learned a few new things. And I agree with you about the economic drivers that this does. It creates a destination. It does help to stabilize the area. So I'm excited to see what comes of this.
 especially because I know personally some of our tourism and our planning for our own family vacations has gone around some of these sites as a destination. So I know that we're spending money in those areas purely because
 They really are being very authentic to the history that's in their area, and that's drawing us because there wouldn't be another reason we would come to those areas. And so that's very exciting to think about the additional individuals that will welcome to Fayetteville that maybe would never have sought Fayetteville out, but puts us on the map as we kind of continue to have kind of this trail of success.
 you know, very interesting areas, you know, across the country and across the South that folks can seek out. But one of the things that I know in looking at your plan or kind of hearing the plan as far as how many signatures you have to gather in community events, and I heard you touch on working with long-range planning with Britain and with our planning team.
 Whenever we undergo something like a historic area or we look at a master plan development, it does take a lot of labor and resources. And so, you know, we're in the middle of budget season. And so this is kind of coinciding during that time. And so I'm just...
 curious not wanting to put you too far out there but also wanting to make sure you know because we value this project and wanting to understand if there's potentially any city resources that might potentially be needed in regard to city support staff or the potential for you know any funding needs in order to get these signatures and to facilitate these community conversations
 uh councilwoman that is a great comment i did not want to get ahead of budget discussions i always would like to be considered i am a person with a very small team however surgical we are we could always use additional resources what i would say is i would leave that to the discretion of the city and the council to determine what resources you may have available my work does not stop if i do not get city resources
 That's not to say that it wouldn't be great to have you all support me and making sure community members when they come out feel right at home and can sink in and ask the questions that I think they're begging to ask. But it would be great, I do not have a number, that you guys consider this project. We are very passionate about it. I've already started beating the drum over in Ward 1. People have already started answering the call, that is your business owners as well as area residents.
 And I think that's what's really brilliant about this is that even those who used to live in Fayetteville are equally invested in seeing this thing happen. And so I will say that any support that you can offer with the city can set aside, we will be willing to use that because I do work on behalf of a nonprofit to get this done. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Mayor, and thank you for your presentation today and the document that you sent to us. Unfortunately, I didn't get a chance to read everything in there, so I do apologize. And this may be in your draft that you provided, and I just didn't get a chance to read it.
 You know, we have two historic, we have a historic district commission and we also have the Black Fayetteville Historic Preservation Commission. How do you envision working with those two groups? Because they would seem to be natural partners, natural allies, and would help our process through the city work a little bit more smoothly.
 So I've already started thinking about that and there's already natural inroads, it's fairly organic. I've taken the time to meet with a couple of people which are black, is it heritage preservation? I don't want to mess that up, it's a lot of words. Either way, I've taken some time to talk to a few people that sit on that commission, did take some time with Britain and what I know is that there's a lot to be defined with this.
 And I think that's the opportunity for both commissions is to sit with them and understand which pieces of this project they may be interested in. In terms of your Black Historic Preservation Commission, I think it's an opportunity to give them a few more guardrails and things that they can actively be working on is what I see. I did review all of the videos from their meetings, and it seems like this is squarely in the crosshairs of success for them.
 And so I'm here to be complicit in supporting all the historic preservation. And I do intend to sit with those commissions and figure out how they naturally align with this project, because I do see the synergy. Excellent. I think that would just be a wonderful way you can divide and conquer and get all of those signatures and other aspects to move forward with your historic district. I didn't think about it like that, but I like how you think. Thank you for that. Well, thank you.
 anybody else mr mayor i would just add that michelle place has been the ceo for 30 years of the tulsa historical society and she has just retired and moved to the city of fayetteville so i toured the greenwood district with her and the tulsa historical society has put together a rather impressive history of the greenwood district so she's now one of us
 And thank you, Council Member Whitaker. I would love to meet with her. But I will say this. When we had our very first meeting, we discussed this. And Emma, you weren't present. Sharon was here. And one of the things that I'm asking, and I'm continuing to ask this of the council, to at some point, Mayor Jordan, if we could, especially before it gets too cold, if we could do a – take a tour of what –
 if we could see it and even possibly talk to some of the residents and get their feelings and their emotions behind how impactful this is. And I don't, in Britain, we've talked about this, I think we did,
 If not, we will be talking about this hopefully. So we can schedule something for the council to kind of go out and if Emma, if you can be with us to kind of show the council what this would look like, what areas.
 I actually intend to come back with renderings in December. So I'm actually trying to project as much into the future as I can. I will have additional color added to that document. There will be renderings to accompany it. And I will have some financial projections to accompany that based off of historical things that have happened here in Fayetteville from a tourism aspect.
 Thank you. And so, Mayor Jordan, how could we – I should know this, but I just want to be clear. How can we schedule a tour of the area? Well, we just set up a tour like we normally do. Like we always do? Like we always do with rezoning or anything. We set up a time and something's convenient for all of you all, and then we'll go look at the property. I'm relatively familiar with the area, but I would certainly go on a tour.
 So, Emma, when are you thinking you may be able to? I'm always good with ASAP, but if you guys have your tennis shoes and want to get out there next Monday or Tuesday, I'm here for it. Okay. Rain, sleet, or snow. I do all weather. We'll get down there. Okay. We'll get a tour, but, I mean, we'll get a tour. Okay. Later? Later. Perfect. Thank you, Emma. Thank you. Any more questions? Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm going to take some public comment. Hope you got another question, Scott? I was just going to make a motion in response to Councilmember Jones' request to table it. I believe you wanted to take some comment. Is that correct? If you think that it's necessary, I do want to table it, but if there are people here that want to speak, then by all means. We've got people here that want to make public comment. Absolutely. I think I'd like to hear it. Absolutely. Okay.
 We'll take some public comment now. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Now this is going to be table, this original resolution, so everybody keep that in mind. Please give us your name and address and those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating in the Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber right now? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan?
 No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, then I'll bring it back to the council. I believe, DeAndre, you have made a motion to table? Yes. A motion to table indefinitely. I'll second that. Okay, is there any final comments from the council? Okay. Care which you please call them. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Thank you all very much.
 all right now we'll get back to the original presentation we have a presentation of the distinguished legislature award to arkansas state representative david whitaker we have representative jack krischer and john wilkerson the general counsel from the municipal league
 Take it away, gentlemen. Thank you, Mayor. I'll tell you, that is tough to follow. And while I'm a central Arkansas guy, this is one of the many reasons I love Fayetteville right there. So I'm John Wilkerson. I'm with the Municipal League. I've been there for 17 years. I'm the general counsel. And I'm also the legislative director. And I've been working with the legislature on behalf of the cities and towns of Arkansas, Fayetteville included.
 since 2015. So I've been fortunate to say that David Whitaker has been a friend of mine since 2015. Had I known him before, he'd have been a friend then too. I know he's a friend of all of y'all. And I just want to start this presentation with this focus on local control. There is no bigger champion of local control than David Whitaker, and I mean that absolutely sincerely. He is there every step of the way
 on behalf of the cities and towns of Arkansas, but obviously primarily you and Farmington, of course. He's an absolute champion for Fayetteville every time he's at the Capitol. He sits on the City, County, and Local Affairs Committee, which is the most important committee in my mind, especially for cities and counties and towns. Jack and I, we kind of did the math. I think the voting record of David Whitaker with us is probably, if it's not 100%, it's right there.
 He has immense respect amongst his peers. He's thoughtful, wise, level-headed. He's always eager to talk with you, always eager to work through an issue. He's incredibly great to work with. And, Representative, I can't tell you how many times I still remember those
 conversations here outside the Capitol, behind the Capitol, in a committee room, wherever it is, you always have a smile on your face. You're always there to welcome any ideas that we have like you are to welcome anybody. You are a true gem of the legislature. You are blessed to have him represent you, and you have a lot of fine legislators representing you. But David Whitaker is, to me, just
 He's a class act, 100%. So with that in mind, I want to present him with the Distinguished Legislator Award in honor of his demonstrated exemplary service that benefited the cities and towns of Arkansas during the 94th General Assembly and many years before that. So thank you, Representative Whitaker. Thank you.
 First of all, I want to thank the Arkansas Municipal League for this recognition, but very briefly, I want to also thank you, Mr. Mayor, and esteemed council members. The idea of service started early in my life, but it came to fruition in this very building. I learned a lot of incredibly good things about duty and service and loyalty. And I thank my old boss, Kit Williams, for teaching me much of that.
 And everything I've learned in this building has stood me in good stead with the legislature. I will never cease being your best, strongest advocate. Our cities are what make this state. And I believe it's not long ago the municipal league's motto was, strong cities make a strong state. And I am absolutely 100% a believer in that and I will fight until I am done.
 to preserve your ability to run your own affairs. Thank you all, and thank everybody. Thank you. I'd like to say that was one of my smartest appointments that I did right after becoming city attorney to hire David.
 He did a great job there until he decided he wanted to seek higher office And then was had been elected and serving the legislature for many many years and has always been a great friend of Fayetteville I also want to thank John Wilkerson of the Municipal League He's been very helpful for us throughout all his service there in the Municipal League So thanks for coming up and giving David this well-deserved All right
 Well, we're ready to go to new business already. Did we vote? I'm sorry. We did vote, didn't we? Ready to go to new business. All right, number one, a resolution to authorize a contract with half associates pursuant to RFQ 23-01 for planning and design services for Combs White River Park
 for the amount of $181,812 to approve project contingency in the amount of $5,000 and to approve budget adjustment. Allison. Thank you, Mayor and City Council. I do have just a few slides you can pull. Oh, thank you. We are requesting approval of a contract with Haff and Associates for the design of Combs Park. Haff was selected through the standard selection committee process in response to RFP 23-01. Next slide, please.
 Staff has prepared a concept plan that's up on the screen that will help guide the design. HAF's scope includes community engagement to further develop programs for the park. It also includes design development, construction documentation, and bidding services. Once the contract is approved, design work is expected to begin immediately with construction drawings being wrapped up next summer. The work is planned to be coordinated with the dam removal and stream restoration work that is being done by the Watershed Conservation Resource Center.
 For those who may not be familiar with the project or the site, Combs Park and the restoration work is located at the east end of Publ Station Road in the southeast part of town. The site is about two miles from downtown and easily accessible by the multi-use trail. As mentioned, the park design is intended to coincide with the restoration work that WCRC is already doing.
 This restoration work is part of a much bigger and very exciting project as it could eventually open up over 16 miles of river. The overall vision connects multiple park assets and will provide opportunity for access, recreation and education.
 The larger project begins in Greenland, passes through the completed restoration areas near Drake Field, continues through Combs Park, White River Baseball Fields, the newly acquired acreage on Dead Horse Mountain Road, connects Bayari Park and goes up to Lake Sequoia at the confluence of the West Fork and the White River.
 WCRC has secured funding to design six of these sites along this link so far and has the ability to apply for additional federal funding through the Natural Resource Conservation Service. Next slide. In terms of the current river restoration project, WCRC is focused on about 9,000 linear feet of river beginning near Black Oak Road. It goes past the pump station and Combs Park up to the north end of the White River baseball fields
 near the city shop off of Huntsville and Armstrong. This work will include the removal of the dam and extensive wetland and floodplain restoration. Next slide. To date, WCRC has completed the pre-restoration environmental assessments and engineering analysis. A draft design is underway and nearing a 60% completion design. Next slide.
 Next steps include completing the design, obtaining permitting for the project, and bidding. They hope to wrap that up in 2024 and begin construction in 2025. With that, I'm happy to answer any questions about the contract with HALF and Associates for the design of Combs Park. And we do have Sandy Formache here if you have any specific questions about the restoration work. What questions do we have, Council? Please. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thanks, Allison. I think this is a really exciting project. I have two questions. I didn't see any requirement in there for the use of native stone or native
 you know, types of lithographs or whatever, or plant material, and I wondered if you could comment on that. Is that just part of our plan that we already require that within the city, or do we need to have a conversation about it?
 So that level of specificity isn't required at this point in the process, just because we're working on the master plan. Once we get into the design development and the construction documentation, that's where we'll start talking about those types of materials. Okay. Thank you. My second question is about that, you know, could you go back with the slides to where the park is?
 because I think there is or was a sort of a hazardous site close to there and I want to make sure that the public you know that we know about that site that we've checked it we've made sure that it's not hazardous anymore we've double-checked it triple-checked it and maybe there could be some consideration sort of in the in this screen and sort of to the northwest that
 Multi-use field space. I think that's the correct location. That's right. Yeah and so I'm wondering if if if this at this phase if there's a Discussion about maybe putting the parking lot there or some other way to really cap that even more so than what has already been remediated
 So that site was the site of the former R&P electroplating site, I think that's what you're referring to, and the site was remediated in 2010, and I believe in 2012 was cleared by ADQ for unrestricted development. In other words, anything could be developed on that property at this point because it had met the standards for that remediation.
 So just, I haven't read that report. I'm glad that you have or someone in the office has. So does that mean that any dirt, any kind of silt, any kind of dust that's turned up, that's okay? Or does it mean that it really needs to be capped with something very solid?
 There was no recommendation for a cap. The remediation measures actually removed most of the soil from that site and brought in new clean soil. Yeah, we did a, I mean we dug down and got that soil out because it was, I say it gets contaminated as you would say. It's pretty bad.
 okay um i just want to make sure that the public is safe you know we've had so many different uh disasters across the us of situations like this so i don't know if it would be worthwhile um to test again i i don't know i just that just drew my attention since it was going to be used as a you know essentially a play field sure sure yeah sure
 I think that would at least ease my mind. No problem there. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate it. Anything else? I think this looks amazing for that part of our community. And if you've ever been down on the river, I went down there when I was on EAC. We went down to Streamside Restoration, and I've been in this area, and it looked like a mess. And to know that it looks so much better now, it's just really...
 really exciting in this park in this part of town and Just what people can do use it for it's just going to be I think amazing once we get it all put together So thank you very much for your efforts. Thank you Okay, well, let's take some public comment. I
 all right everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address and those present the chain will be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom we'll speak after that who would like to address us in the chamber who you have on zoom no one mayor okay i will bring it back to the council this is a resolution
 mr mayor i had the privilege of sitting in on the interviews of the the potential contractors and was thoroughly impressed both with park staff and the and the applicants and so i would be thrilled to move that we adopt this resolution second right any final comments from the council well i want a couple of comments here just a couple i love this project it's a great project for this city
 Mean you know and we saw and people were talking about let's put big rocks and stuff in us and no we're gonna need Then Teresa now you and I talked about that But before that we talked about this when I was a city council member we talked about preserving that and having Some sort of kayak or our canoe route through that area and you know, it's
 You know, you just stay after it, and you stay after it. And then now today I'm looking at this, and I remember when we talked about that almost 20 years ago, and I never thought, well, I knew we were going to stay after it until we got it, but I didn't know quite how long that would take us. But this is a great project, and I just can't think of anything better for this city right now.
 Families can go we're gonna have a trail along some of that and we preserve some land Fantastic project really thrilled about so with that care which please call the roll Yes, sir. Yes, yes Jones. Yes more. Yeah Yes, yes. Thank you all very much. All right. Let's go number two. I
 A resolution to authorize the city attorney to seek condemnation and possession of certain lands owned by Leonard W. Stitts needed for the West Transmission Water Main project. Temp. Thank you, Mayor. The city's wholesale water supplier, Beaver Water District, has begun construction of a western water distribution point near Highway 112 and Highway 612.
 This facility will supply western water transmission feed for all four customer cities. The project is currently being designed with a construction plan to begin in late 2024. All easements must be obtained prior to the City of Fayetteville closing on its State Revolving Fund loan in July 2024.
 For this 48 inch diameter water line, a 50 foot wide easement is necessary along the entire route to construct and maintain the line throughout its lifetime. The route chosen is specifically designed to be as unobtrusive as possible to impacted properties staying close to property lines whenever possible. The Leonard W. Stitts easement consists of approximately 0.12 acres of easement area.
 City staff has sent an offer letter and I will correct myself from last week, about a week and a half ago, the land agent and the consultant engineer had the opportunity to meet with Mr. Stitts. And in that meeting it appeared that Mr. Stitts was standing firm that he was not interested in granting the city of Fayetteville an easement.
 For this reason, staff recommends that the city attorney file for order of possession of this easement. Paying the value of this property is documented in the appraisal of $3,000. The payment for land acquisition will be made from the water and sewer improvement account. Should be noted that this is just an estimate based on the appraised value of the property and that the final cost is subject to negotiation with the property owners and by court order. Appraised value will be deposited into the registry of the circuit court.
 It's just compensation when the condemnation complaint is filed with the property. The Water and Insurance Hall of Waste Committee did allow us to bring all condemnations straight to the city council for consideration at one of our recent Water and Insurance Committee meetings. Do you have any answering questions? What questions do we have for Tim on this one?
 sure excuse me hi tim thank you for the update that you were able to talk with the property owner and the land agent um that was a concern you know that i'd had because we hadn't potentially made contact i was curious you said that the landowner was not agreeable did he give us any feedback
 the feedback was that he just Really didn't understand why the city of Fayetteville would need an easement in Springdale, so to speak I mean you can kind of see the thought process there But we are trying to run a water transmission line from Beaverwater in Lowell to the city of Fayetteville. Yes, Scott. Just for clarification
 Even with this resolution, it does not prevent the city staff or land agents or the owner to continue negotiations, right? That's correct. It can go all the way up to court. We will negotiate right up until the day that the judge calls the court to order. And let me tell you about our record on doing that. We have been having to condemn property ever since I've been city attorney for 22 years now.
 We condemned, the city council has authorized the condemnation of property many, many times over that period of time, as the mayor remembers. And throughout that whole time we've continued to negotiate with the property owners and we've only had one case when we actually had to go all the way to a jury trial. Every other case we were able to reach a fair settlement. We will continue to try to do that in this case.
 At the next meeting, you're going to see a bunch of requests for condemnations. And the reason for that is that we have to get the orders of possession so our engineers that we've hired can do their work on time so that we can maintain our right to get this $85 million loan at a very favorable interest rate. So we're going to work very hard on that. We can't get an order of possession until we file a request for condemnation.
 And when we do that, we put money in the court that they can pull out, the owner can pull out if they want to, based on the appraised value. But even then, it's not the end of negotiations. We will continue to talk with them and...
 We will settle these cases if we can in a fair way and where that's certainly our goal and we're going to work very hard I'm glad you gave me another Help with another city attorney now So that because I think all three of us are going to be having to work on this project because it simply must get done so that we can obtain that that loan at the right rates and
 And if we don't, then it would be very costly to the city. So we're going to work very hard on that. And what we're asking you to do tonight and then at the next meeting is authorize us to file these condemnations, which we would rather not file, but we simply have to at this point in time if the property owner has not yet
 signed The easements now we've been getting more easement signed all the time So the numbers are going down and hopefully they'll continue to go down even before we have to ask you for the condemnation power But even after you've done that after we file we'll continue working in that direction. I
 And Mr. Mayor, if I may make one more correction. Since you said that, last week, Kit had asked me if we'd contact any of these future combinations, and I just said I thought there were no contact. I did since find out that, yes, we have contacted every one of these 28 property owners. They have come back and asked for information and asked for appraisals, but at that point, we haven't had much communication since then. Okay. Okay.
 Anything else from anybody? Okay, well we'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber? Have anybody on? Yes, sir. Okay. I will bring it back to the council. This is a resolution.
 mr mayor if i may from my experience most of these folks that just ignore communications do so up until an actual court date is set from my experience and typically the day before the trial begins everything magically settles out and so for us to miss out on this loan would cost rate payers
 Fayetteville and the surrounding communities we service between 35 and 40 million dollars to build the exact same pipeline and so I think it's in everyone's interest that we authorize the city attorney to proceed on these post haste and with that I would make a motion to pass this resolution second motion second resolution any other discussion or final comments from the council
 Oh, you're ready to vote. You're waiting on me, aren't you? I'm ready to go. All right. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Tert? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Arno? Yes. Okay. Number three. Number three.
 An ordinance levying a tax on real and personal property within the City of Federal Arkansas for the year 2023 fixing the rate thereof at 2.3 mils for general fund operations 0.4 mils for the fireman's pension and relief fund 0.4 mils for the policeman's pension and relief fund 2.5 mils for the federal public library operations and 1.2 mils for the federal public library expansion and certifying the same
 to the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas, Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that a tax is hereby levied on the real and personal property within the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas for the year 2023 to be collected in 2024 for the following purposes at the following rates. Real and personal property, purpose, general fund operations, levy 2.3 mills,
 Purpose Fayetteville Public Library Operations, 2.5 mils. Purpose Fayetteville Public Library Expansion, 1.2 mils. Policeman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils. Fireman's Pension and Relief Fund, 0.4 mils, for a total of 6.8 mils. Section 2, that the real and personal property tax so levied
 the rates provided therefore are hereby certified to the County Clerk of Washington County, Arkansas to be placed in the tax book and collected in the same manner that the county and school district taxes are collected and Section 3 that the city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this ordinance in the office of the County Clerk for Washington County, Arkansas Oh
 Good evening again, mayor and council as I indicated at the agenda session I might not have an answer and tonight. I'm going to ask you not to Approve this on three readings we could consider going to the second reading but I have not got an answer yet from the assessor's office and
 should have one by the end of the week and possibly early next week so at the council meeting I should know if we are going to have a rollback or not
 I'm waiting on that, so I may ask for an amendment at that point of time. I want everybody to understand, the public especially, that this is the same tax rate as we had in previous years and last year, and we're asking that we continue at that rate.
 The four-tenths of a mil for the old fire pension plan and the four-tenths of a mil for the old police pension plan. Those were by adoption, by referendum, as were the library millage. The 2.3 is general fund millage.
 millage, which is discretionary. We looked a little bit and talked a little about the general fund and what it was looking like this year. That was basically to put and demonstrate the need for it. That would bring in about $5.7 million to the city that we are...
 we would need. So again, we're going to look at a rollback. If we have a rollback, I'll ask for a modification of this ordinance. And with that, I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have, Paul? You want to leave it on first reading? OK. Anything tonight? OK. Well, let's do take some public comments. Somebody might be here to speak on that. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this in the chamber tonight on this topic? No one on Zoom. So I'll bring it back to you all, and we don't have any discussion or anything, so we'll just leave it right here. Everybody good? Okay. All right, let's go on to number four. In Ordinance to Amend 118.05, Penalty B,
 City Services termination to add an additional subsection to provide a procedural due process hearing opportunity for unlicensed type 2 short-term rentals prior to withholding City Services. Kip? Thank you.
 Whereas a previously licensed short-term rental whose license has been suspended or revoked after being provided an opportunity for procedural due process hearing may have its city services, including water, sewer, and solid waste, withdrawn from the business premises.
 and whereas numerous type 2 short-term rentals appear to be illegally operating without obtaining a business license, but should also be provided an opportunity for procedural due process hearing prior to its city services being withdrawn from the business premises. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 118.05B, City Services Termination, by placing all existing language in a new subsection B1 and enacting a new subsection B2 as follows. Quote, subsection 2, a type 2 short-term rental operator who does not have a valid legal business license for the type 2 short-term rental
 and who has not already been afforded an opportunity for a procedural due process hearing pursuant to Section 11801E17 shall be sent a letter to the address of the suspected Type 2 short-term rental in which it is stated that the operator or owner may request a procedural due process hearing prior to the withholding of City services in not less than five nor more than ten business days.
 If such due process hearing is requested by the owner or operator prior to the expiration of 10 business days, such hearing shall be promptly scheduled. The Chief of Staff shall hear evidence from City staff and others that the subject type 2 short-term rental does not have a valid current license and has been operating the short-term rental in violation of the City Code.
 The owner or operator might then provide may then explain and or provide evidence Disputing the city's allegations or explaining why city services should not be withheld from the property The chief of staff may then recommend to the mayor Whether or not city services should be withheld from the premises of the type 2 short-term rental and what could be done by the owner operator of the premises to obtain city services at this location again and
 The mayor may then order the withholding of all city services, including water, sewer, and solid waste, from the premises and property. This was a request of the special committee on that, the Ordinance Review Committee, looking at that. And Holly, you were the chair, so if you want to further explain this, I'll yield to you.
 Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Council. The Ordinance Review Committee was tasked with the responsibility of reviewing the short-term rental ordinance and making recommendations of changes in response to several issues that have arisen after the enactment of the ordinance.
 One of the major issues that we've been concerned about is the number of Type 2 short-term rentals that are being operated illegally, having not obtained a business license and or conditional use permit, and have not passed the required health and safety inspections. Excuse me. Because of this, the Ordinance Review Committee met twice in September to discuss this and develop a solution that would enable the City to enforce our zoning, business license, and Type 2 short-term rental laws.
 as a result of the meetings the ordinance review committee is bringing forth a recommendation to approve an ordinance authorizing the withholding of city services as a penalty for violation this would not occur until after the operator of the illegally operated type 2 short-term rental has been provided the opportunity to request a procedural due process hearing and i am available for any questions okay i don't have any
 i know what my job is so um what comments or questions does council wish to have i want to thank the ordinance review committee taking this on i know it was i know it was all that in a bag of chips but uh y'all did a really good job any comments or questions well then no i think it's i think this is a really good approach um
 It's well thought out and it's not, you know, it's trying not to punish people that are doing, following the rules. And we've had plenty of time at this point for people to know about what our ordinance is and to try to get themselves in compliance. And if they're not, then they just, you know, I kind of...
 I feel like they've had plenty of time at this juncture. So I think this is a good compromise. I really appreciate your work on that. Thank you. That's all. Okay. Anything else? All right. Well, let's take some public comment. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, and those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber? No, sir. Okay. Then I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. So what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I would –
 I do want to thank the Ordinance Review Committee. They've had a lot of discussion, a lot of deliberation, a lot of input. And I think this is the most well-balanced solution that we have here to some of the illegal activity that's been going on with short-term rental type IIs. So thank you, Holly. I commend you for that. And if no one – oh, I see Scott's slide is on.
 I would move that we would suspend the rules and go to the second reading. All right, we have a motion to second, go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Burnett. Yes. Yes.
 Adjournance amends section 118.05 penalty subsection B city services termination to add an additional subsection 2 to provide a procedural due process hearing opportunity for unlicensed type 2 short-term rentals prior to withholding city services. Move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second.
 Care which police call the roll? Everybody says so. Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Yes.
 In order to amend Section 11805, Penalty Subsection B, City Services Termination, to add an additional Subsection 2, to provide a procedural due process hearing opportunity for unlicensed Type 2 short-term rentals prior to withholding city services. Any final comments from the Council?
 So, during Ordinance Review, I abstained on bringing this forward just because I had concerns about the execution around this and kind of had pause.
 So I do just want to put out there, I very much trust staff in executing. I do really want to make sure that we have at the forefront though, obviously we can't send out letters to 200 plus properties that might be illegal all at once.
 feasible for us to be able to execute that immediately. And so I would just ask for, you know, some level of matrix or decision making to try to, you know, weigh either, you know, our biggest offenders or some way that can be, you know, the most equitable that we can come up with and,
 It's not as simple as first in, first out, because unfortunately these properties didn't register, so we don't necessarily know when they started operating. But if we do have any way to gauge some of the folks that have been operating maybe longer, or there have been lots of complaints in the city, if there could be a way to be able to weigh that in as well, knowing that this is gonna be quite a volume in the beginning. And the only other thing I'd like to do is just really invite our community,
 those folks that do have those unlicensed, to ask you to please get in compliance. We don't, none of us want to do this punitive measure. I think this is the unfortunate culmination that's happened over these years of this conversation. And so please,
 don't bring us to the point to turn off your water. Please consider either applying for an application or turning your property over into a longer-term rental because we need the houses desperately. So I at least wanted to put that out there. So thank you. Just checking. Okay, so I'm third and final. Any other final comments from the council? Now, council, now that you have...
 About to give me this authority. We will enforce the ordinance I want everybody to you may get a couple of calls here because when we Have violation we're going to react You know me well enough to know what I will do I do have something to add on this I know that anyone that is using a
 the particular platform for Airbnb has been notified about this. So you know and they've been encouraged to contact their council members and that sort
 That's another reason I think that there's fewer people that don't know about this. If their platform that they use to make their money off of this is telling them, hey, this is about to happen, then check into it. So I think I just wanted to make that clear. Yeah, I wanted to make my position clear as well.
 Mr. Mayor, I don't feel sorry for any business operating illegally that has consequences. I only feel sorry for the Chief of Staff because I suspect the City is going to send out those 200 letters quite promptly. So thank you.
 May I say this? Mayor, one of the challenges I had with this initially was it's not the city's goal to disconnect services. It's our goal to get people into compliance. But with this particular setup with short-term rentals, there's really no way for the offenders to get in compliance because we're at our cap.
 So I really struggled with this idea of what we're doing tonight. However, I got past that in the fact that, number one, they've had three and a half years to get in compliance. And number two, I know as a business owner, it's my job to know what it takes for me to stay in business and be legal in my business.
 And if I don't do that, it's my responsibility. So that's how I got to the point that I am supporting this ordinance. But it is a tough deal because there is no way for them to get in compliance. We do still have a few business licenses available. Yeah, but by the time all that plays out, you're essentially no chance of getting compliance. I don't know what to tell you. I've got an ordinance. It's going to be the law, and I'm going to...
 Going to enforce it I've got some final comments This has been a long time coming. There's been a lot of press about this. It's not like we did this overnight there's been a lot of debate discussion and and so if you weren't paying attention and your short-term rental owner and not in compliance then if
 I don't know how you run your business, honestly, because we've had a lot of conversation about this. And I want to just, I know this is probably going to be a little tough. I hope everybody gets into compliance. But I want to say that I support the city staff. I'm going to feel for the chief of staff who has to...
 negotiate or hear some of these issues, but I do think the process is fair, and we've given everybody a lot of notice. So I hope it goes smoothly. Thank you. It will. Okay, anything else?
 care which police call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Okay, all right. Let's go to number five.
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 23-04, property located at 817 East Dogwood Lane in Ward 1, to vacate a 0.16 acre portion of Alley Right-of-Way. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes,
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following scribe portion of an alley right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of an alley right-of-way as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1.
 Any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner or developer's expense. Section 2, that a 20-foot access easement shall be dedicated as shown in the Blue and Associates survey attached to the Planning Department's memo. And 3, a new 15-foot utility easement shall be dedicated along the north side of the subject property as requested by AEP's WEPCO. Jonathan? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. I'm Jonathan Kurth of the Development Services Department. This particular piece of property is located in Ward 1. It's on the northwest slope of what many of you may think of as Mount Sequoia proper. It's about 600 feet southeast of Mission and Lafayette. The request, as noted, is to vacate approximately half an acre of existing alley right-of-way, which you can see here indicated in red, that extends southeast today from Dogwood.
 For some additional context and to see the wider neighborhood, you can see the area being proposed for vacation here outlined in red. In addition to the two houses that are currently accessing it for effectively as their personal driveway. And here in blue, you can see where the remainder of the alleyway was vacated several years ago.
 The only issues that staff identified with this or reviewed with this request are matters of utility consent. Staff did receive all those documents from the necessary franchise utilities, our transportation department, our recycling and trash department. All of them have consented to the request and none have applied any conditions of approval other than the one I'll go into from SWEPCO shortly.
 Otherwise, the only other item of note was some public inquiry that was received prior to the Planning Commission meeting. Otherwise, the Planning Commission intended to leave it or to place it on consent, but wanted to hear what the public had to say, and then ultimately nobody spoke at the meeting. So they considered those concerns alleviated by the answers received by staff leading up to that meeting.
 With that in mind, staff recommends approval of the request with the conditions outlined by Mr. Williams. First, that any utility damage or relocation be at the owner's expense. Second, that a 20-foot access easement is dedicated that will preserve that area as access for those two homes that currently use it for their driveway. And finally, that a 15-foot utility easement be dedicated along the north property line to accommodate SWEPCO's needs.
 The Planning Commission forwarded this to City Council unanimously by a vote of 9 to 0. I'm happy to take any questions the Council has and I believe William Gagner is here on line representing Blue and Associates Mayor. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council? I guess not. Mr. Gagner? You'll have to unmute Mr. Gagner. Must be having technical difficulties. Well, let's move and see if we have any, move on and see if we have any questions from staff.
 No? Okay, well then let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Does anyone like to address us on this topic in the chamber? No. Do you have anybody on Zoom? Only Mr. Gagner and he can't unmute.
 Then there's that. I will bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. So what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. I care what you please call the roll.
 Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedecker? Yes. Berner? Yes. An ordinance approved VAC 23-04 for property located at 817 East Dogwood Lane in Ward 1 to vacate a .16 acre portion of an alley right-of-way.
 it's uh ordinance it's only we've suspended our whole go to the third reading second we have a motion in a second to go third and finally which police call the road bench yes third yes earthsburg yes jones yes moore yes yes bernard yes
 in ordinance approved vac 23-04 for property located at 817 east dogwood lane in ward 1 to vacate about a 16th of an acre a sixth of an acre excuse me a portion of an alley right away any final comments from the council
 all right care which please call the roll bench yes turd yes herdsburg yes jones yes moore yes yes yes i want to say a special thanks to mr gagner and thank you for his comments i'm sure it had an impact on the council's decision uh moving along number number six
 An ordinance to amend 151.01 definitions, 163.05 child care nursery school, and 164.24 registered child care family homes of the Unified Development Code to align the city's child care family home requirements with state law. Kip.
 Whereas recent changes to state law adopted by the Arkansas General Assembly in Act 60 of 2023 require amendments to the City of Fayetteville's regulations regarding home child care facilities. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals the definition of, quote, registered child care family home, unquote, in Section 151.01 definitions,
 and enacts a new definition as follows, quote, registered child care family home zoning, a child care setting in which the caregiver provides child care in a family residence or residence with a home-like environment, and is registered or licensed by the state of Arkansas pursuant to the Arkansas Code Annotated Section 20-78-201 at SEC, unquote. In Section 2,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend Section 16305, Child Care Nursery School, as follows. Quote, all such establishments other than registered child care family homes authorized pursuant to Section 16424 of the Unified Development Code shall be located on lot switch number 1.
 Provide a minimum lot area. Contain a minimum lot area of 250 square feet per child. Number two, minimum outdoor play space. Provide a minimum outdoor play space of 75 square feet per child. Calculate it on the basis of the number of children occupying the outdoor play space at one time.
 3. Number of children. In an RSF zone, a child care facility may be approved as a conditional use of no more than 10 children or the number of children approved by the state's licensing board, whichever is fewer. Section 3. That the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 16424, Registered Child Care Family Homes, and an actual replacement of Section 16424 as follows.
 Registered Child Care Family Homes. Registered Child Care Family Homes shall be allowed by right in any zoning district in which residential uses are permitted. Operators of Registered Child Care Family Homes shall ensure a current copy of his or her license issued by the state of Arkansas is on file with the city of Fayetteville.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to offer the council a little bit of quick background on our childcare requirements with the city. I promise I'll be very quick, but I think it is justified since some of you all not had the opportunity to experience the changes we made in advance of the state statute and see those in the context of what the state approved this year. Prior to 2021, any in-home daycares were required to get conditional use permits citywide, regardless of the number of children.
 It was a pretty significant sea change in 2021 when a planning commissioner brought forward the Long Range Planning Group, which is kind of the think tank for our planning commission, a proposal to revise our UDC to make it more feasible, easier or less restrictive to develop in-home day cares in a small scale throughout Fayetteville. There was a very acute need for childcare that was recognized by that commissioner.
 It was successfully brought forward. It was a kind of exciting experience because several child care advocates heard about it through the news, came out and helped us actually recraft the ordinance from its original shape so that it represented something that aligned with the state and with the city's goals. Ultimately, you, the council, approved that in May of 2021.
 More recently, as Mr. Williams noted in the ordinance, slate legislators caught up with Fayetteville, if you will, and decided that this was a direction that ought to be taken for the state at large, that child care is an acute need for many, many families regardless of incomes. Sometimes it's more about access than anything else.
 The primary requirement of the state statute was that the local regulations were not to be, or preempted local regulations that were in excess of state standards for in-home child cares, meaning those that are located in houses and residential areas, not what you would think of as a school like the Gene Tyson program or things of that nature.
 As with much state statute or state legislation this year, this was on both planning staff and the legal department's radar as it was going through. And accordingly, once it was passed, this was worked on by both those groups and brought forward to you all.
 In essence, despite all the code chapters of the development code that this covers, it really is getting rid of language. It's one of those rare instances where our development code is actually getting shorter. We're cutting out several sections and making reference to state statute in lieu of having them replicated or be duplicative in our local ordinances.
 So with that in mind, we feel that this is more of a code cleanup item than anything else, and staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously, and to date we've received no public comment on the item. And as the applicant staff, I'm happy to take any questions that Council has. Thank you. What questions do we have for John? Anything? Okay.
 Well, let's see if the public has anything. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public. Or any council members stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this? It's in the chamber on this topic.
 do you have anyone on zoom okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like mayor i moved this has been the rules move the second reading second we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading coverage please call the road fudge yes turk yes earthsburg yes
 Jones yes more yes we did current yes or no yes in order to amend section 151 Oh one definitions section 16305 childcare nursery school and section 164 point 2 for registered childcare family homes of the Unified Development Code to align the city's childcare family home requirements with state law
 Move to suspend the rules and move to the third reading. Second. Motion seconded to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Funch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. And in order to amend Section 15101 definitions, Section 16305, Child Care.
 nursery school and section 164 to for registered childcare family homes of the Unified Development Code to align the city's childcare family home requirements with state law any final comments from the council yes yes yes Jones yes more yes yes yes
 number seven an ordinance to resolve that property described in his own petition rzn 2023-0022 for approximately 2.32 acres located at 5672 west taffet drive in ward 4 from rna residential agricultural to rsf4 residential single family four units per acre kit it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map and the legal description both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF4 Residential Single Family .
 And Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. John.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in West Fayetteville in Ward 4. It includes about 2.3 acres located between Weddington to the north and Persimmon to the south. It's about 500-600 feet west of 54th Avenue. Getting more specific, as you can see here, it is just northeast of Packett Drive's intersection with Genevieve Avenue and just south of Owl Creek.
 which does have some associated floodplain and floodway that impact the property that you can see visible on the map here.
 The request is to rezone the property from RA residential agricultural to RSF4 residential single family four units per acre. The applicant has shared that the need for the rezoning is less about development potential and more about getting reduced setbacks so that they are able to build a shed on the property. But as council knows, you're tasked with considering what is allowed in the zoning district, not necessarily what's being specifically proposed by the applicant.
 With that in mind, and staff reviewing it from a perspective of what is allowed in the RSF4 zoning district, we have found it to be a compatible land use in this area. Despite the large amounts of agricultural zoning, which you can see here on the map in green, the majority of the area is
 Zones single family with single family homes on large lots. The allowance of the RSF4 zoning district, which is single family homes on quarter acre lots is in staff's estimation a compatible use for the area.
 When looking at it from a future land use map perspective, this property actually has a split designation, which you can see here. The area on the aerial that you previously saw within floodplain and floodway is designated as natural area on our future land use map, which are areas intended to not be developed or to be developed to the lowest extent possible.
 The balance of the property, which you see in yellow, is designated as a residential neighborhood area, which in broad terms is intended to encourage a wide variety of residential uses, but depending on the context. Which brings us to the infill rating for the property, which is three to five, which is a fairly low number of features that would generally be associated with infill.
 Accordingly, staff feels that going from RA to RSO4, perhaps one of the smaller increments of allowing additional zoning entitlement is appropriate rather than pursuing something higher, denser, or more permissive in terms of housing types.
 There were a number of other issues that staff considered with this request, the most prominent of which is existing city infrastructure, specifically Tackett. Here's some images you can see from Google Street View and which were also taken by Commissioner Garlick on a nearby street. Tackett is a very narrow road. It is less than 20 feet wide and doesn't include any sidewalks. It is generally as it was found when annexed into the city many years ago.
 Other considerations, as I noted before, this property does have some encumbrances from floodplain and floodway associated with Owl Creek. It is also, which means it's also subject to the city's streamside protection requirements. And lastly, where you often see floodplain, you often see hydric soils, which is indeed the case here.
 As a reminder, hydric soils can be an indicator of whether it could be wetlands on the property. It usually acts as a catalyst or instigator for engineering staff to require additional information if a property is to be developed. When it comes to tree canopy, it's effectively a wash. Both the RA, residential agricultural, and RSF 4-zoning districts both require 25% tree canopy.
 And the last item that the staff wanted to bring to your attention is public comment, which is a little bit interesting here if you saw my emails that came through yesterday and today. There was a member of the public that spoke at the Planning Commission in favor of the request after the Planning Commission. What I shared with you at agenda session was a petition that had been circulated among some of the neighbors to the south who had significant concerns about traffic and again the existing conditions of Tackett.
 They subsequently submitted communications that I shared with you all, not necessarily explicitly withdrawing their concerns, but expressing support of the applicant's request with the understanding that
 their intent is to rezone the property for reduced setbacks so that they can build a shed. So hopefully that helps contextualize some of those emails that were sent to you over the last couple of days. But all told, staff ultimately came to a recommendation of approval on this request. The Planning Commission, however, was split on their consideration.
 Those who voted in the 6-2 vote to forward it to City Council recommending approval felt that given the context of the area, it would be more appropriately developed as low density single family residential rather than agricultural uses. RA does allow the potential for livestock and other animal related and agricultural related uses that can be found to be a nuisance.
 But the two that voted against were more explicitly concerned about the existing street infrastructure and that it would be inadequate to support additional housing. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And Mayor, I believe Alan Hogarth is here as the applicant for the item. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Yes. Yes.
 Hello, me and my wife moved here about five and a half years ago and bought that piece of property and we absolutely love it. It's going to be our retirement place. We have where we can look out our back door and it's one of the few places that you can live. I did not see a single house because of where we're at because of the floodplain and everything. It's beautiful. The thing is I went to, I have a shed that's really old, it's falling apart, and I went to
 of the building department to get a permit to put shed exactly where I had it before and They told me at that time was gonna have to be 20 feet off the property line instead of 5 feet off the property line Well where I was going to put it the 5 feet off the property line I'm only going to take down a couple of small trees if I move 20 feet off the property line I got to take down two or three great big trees that are 50-60 feet tall so that's one reason we tried to stay away from that too and
 But we'd like to have it put back in the same place, too, because the way the rest of our stuff in that area is situated, it works out well to have that shed in that place. We're not planning to build any more houses on the piece of property or anything like that. We're not planning to sell it until... We've got grandkids in the area that are...
 five, three, and one's just turning two in another day. So we have a playground set up for them there and everything, and it's like having your own park. And that's, we actually love it there. Like I said, we're not trying to increase, and we don't plan to increase the thing, but my wife and me, we have it where I'd like to also, we're going to go with a bigger shed. Yeah.
 I'd like to have it someday where I can actually park my car in my garage. And I don't know if any of you ever had that problem, but I cannot get my car in the garage because I have too much stuff. And I'd like to get the bigger shed so that I can put the car in the garage and put the bikes in the shed and not have them in there. So that's what we're shooting for. But I was told...
 that we need to be 20 feet off. Yes, I could still do it, but I'd have to take down bigger trees and stuff that are probably 50, 60 years old. But yeah, we absolutely love it there and we plan to stay there a long time. So it's not like we're trying to develop a subdivision there.
 So I appreciate your listening to me. Thank you. What questions do we have for the applicant or the staff? Tracy. Thank you. Hi. I'm just curious why you pursued the rezoning and not a variance. Because they told me for me to get a variance, I had to prove a hardship. And that's what I was going to go with for first. And they told me I wouldn't be able to get it passed as a variance.
 And that I'd have to go. They led me this path and told me I had to go this way. And they gave him good advice, because this is the way to do it. Like you said, he would not be able to get a variance for that or actually have to go to the Board of Adjustment, I think, for that. That's correct. And we can't overrule the Board of Adjustment. Any appeals from them goes to circuit court. So this is by far the best solution for his problem. OK, thank you for clarifying that. Thank you. How big is your shed? I don't know.
 The one we have right now is... No, the one you're going to build. Oh, well, I'm not going to build it. I'm going to have one hauled in. Oh?
 I'm not that motivated. I've gone in our house. We have totally redone it. I've put all the siding, new windows, new everything. Like tonight and today, before I came here, I was working on the basement floor. We're getting real close to the end now. I was putting flooring down. I just have to put trim work in it, and voila, the house should be finished finally. But, yeah.
 and the shed was one of the last things is getting the shed to get the rest of the stuff out of the house. And the, but, um, we were going from a 10 by 16. We're going to go all the way up to a, possibly a 16 by 44. That's a big storage. That's a big storage. Like I said, I, we, my wife believes in holiday decorating. Like you wouldn't believe we have so many boxes and stuff. And, uh, but, uh,
 With where I'm being that big I'd have to take out a lot of trees and the area that I'm putting it in There's just a couple small trees when I'm off the property line But when I get that 20 feet off the property line Then I'm whacking a bunch of trees and we're trying to stay away from whacking those trees out But yeah that night, you know, I've got the lawnmower I'm putting in there and I
 I might take a little bit of it as a work shed to have my table saw and stuff like that and do it when stuff but Yeah, that's why it's like that's a big shed No, you'd have to take out a lot of stuff in the place where I'm putting it It's like one of the few places where there's hardly any vegetation. That's big Thank you mayor I have one one other question Did anybody
 Maybe talk about only rezoning the portion that's not in the floodplain. Well, see, the whole part that's not in the floodplain is where my house is at, of course. Right, but leaving the floodplain in the RA. I tried it at a different level, and they told me that I had to be RA4 for the type. And I...
 And they as city staff? So you're saying, OK. Yeah, I asked a couple other ways if I could try it. And they said, this is the way you got to go. So that's where I'm at. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Sure. I have a question for Jonathan. Thank you very much. Jonathan, so I lost my map here. So in the map, how much property do you estimate is in the floodplain?
 versus out of the floodplain and just let's say this gentleman does not build his shed and what would be, you know, we always have to think about the maximum that could go on a piece of property. What would be the maximum, just an estimate that you think could be built on this property? Okay.
 That's a good question. To answer the first question first, about .6 acres of the property is within either flood plain or flood way.
 about a quarter just over or just less than a quarter of the property altogether Answering the second question is a little bit more complicated. I mean taking a very simple measure of of the density allowance or the Requirements of the RSF or zoning district it could theoretically be split into four lots I think the bigger issue is whether
 splitting it into four lots could justify the amount of street improvements that would be required to split it into four lots. TAC at its width today is not wide enough to meet basic fire code, which is a baseline standard to be able to subdivide property. So to answer a question you did not ask, I think there would be the cost would be prohibitive currently to be able to subdivide this property.
 Okay, so I'm gonna I'm gonna take this gentleman in his word and that he's gonna build a shed and not not subdivide this because of Some of the things you just mentioned. Thank you Jonathan just a quick question He is entitled to build an accessory dwelling unit. However, and how large could that be? Accessory dwellings are allowed to be 1200 square feet. Yeah, I
 anything else all right well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chain who you have on zoom elen there okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 Well, this is an ordinance. So what discussion would you all like to have? It's on the first reading. What action would you like to take? You want to go first? I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I'd like to make a question first.
 So I am concerned that if we rezone this to RSF4, that that floodway, floodplain is in an RSF4 area. Now, we definitely do have the streamside protection ordinance, but I would propose, and taking the gentleman on his word about what his plans are, is to leave the floodplain portion as RA and only rezone, I guess, the approximately 1.7 acres area
 to RSF4. Is that possible to be able to do that if I move to amend this ordinance, this rezoning?
 I'm going to need to lean on your parliamentarian on whether you can amend it by exhibit or by description. Typically, we require a legal description, which is one reason, despite staff sometimes recommending people rezone property to split designations like RA and floodplain, they often opt to rezone a full property because that's the legal description they have on their deed, and it's just an easier route. So I don't know if...
 If the council's authority allows that or not I have to defer to mr. Williams. Well as I read the ordinance It certainly refers to the legal description which we have one right now for the whole piece of property We don't have a legal description that would divide the floodplain away from the rest of the property and also calls for a map and
 which we don't have either at this point in time. We probably could get some sort of map from GIS, but the legal description is not something you can really get from our GIS system. Floodplains, of course, have a lot of protection anyway, anymore. We have much more strict requirements on floodplain development, but to require a legal description, you'd have to hire a surveyor, we'd have to wait for the legal description to be completed,
 Then you all would need to amend the ordinance to that but that's the easy part The hardest part is getting the survey and paying for it But if that's where you could do it if the City Council decides that you must or want to or will not pass this without having the floodplain in a Remain in our a then you'll need a legal description and you'll need to have the applicant hire his surveyor and provide that to you. I
 I'd like to give the applicant a chance to come forward and comment on this discussion that we're having right here. I think the applicant's made it really clear that he's followed staff recommendations, and he's followed their recommendations, he's applying for something, and I think that we, you know, he deserves the opportunity for us to vote on exactly what he is applying for. That's my take on it. Sorry.
 And if you don't want to comment, that's fine too. I just wanted to give you the opportunity. Well, I just don't know how long that would take and how much it would cost to have all that done. Because this is a big piece of property to survey, and the floodplain is not like a straight line that you can draw. It would have to be mapped. And then would I have to have two deeds is the question too.
 I know that there's already an easement for the sewer because I've mowed the other side of the creek. Because part of my property is on the other side of the creek, about a third of an acre is on the other side of the creek. And I mow it just to keep it maintained and stuff. And I've got a manhole covering over there, so that must be where it says sewer on it.
 So there must be an easement for the sewer over there anyways, down the other side of the creek. But yeah, like I said, we're planning to stay there a long time, but that doesn't, hopefully, well, I shouldn't say that, but in 20 years, the roads conditions could change too by that. And I know on the people that did complain about the roads and stuff, they were complaining a lot about 54th Street being too narrow.
 If you take a read and read it real close, they talk about 54. Now, are my streets narrow too? I agree with that. Right when you get to my driveway is when the street gets really narrow. Up until then, it's got an improved curb and everything like that to my property. But I definitely agree because we're...
 if you take a look and read it i don't know if they've read it or not about 54th but getting on to 54th from tackett is a real sure my concern is really about the flood plain and i know i'm getting off on the other side thank you for yes for your um perspective yeah i i yeah i don't know what it would cost and how long that would take to do and stuff well it's still you know a big lift to go from re to rsf4 and so now i know that at the
 county because I went and checked because I asked when I changed from agriculture to this other zoning how much it was going to raise my taxes and the county's already got me zoned as being residential and they're charging residential as far as taxes your residential agriculture okay but yeah it didn't change my taxes at all from one to the other thank you thank you
 mayor did we have a did we have a motion and a second okay considering staff's comments kids comments I would move to second motion yes sorry we have motion
 can you please call the row yes turk yes earthsburg yes jones yes more yes weedicker yes earner yes and your order's the reason on that property described in the regional new petition rzn 2023-22 for approximately 2.32 acres located at 5672 west tackett drive in ward 4 from ra residential agricultural to rsf4 residential single family four units per acre
 make a motion suspend the rules and go third and finally second second have a motion to second go third and finally care which please call the roll fudge yes turk yes herdsburg yes jones yes moore yes liedeker yes yes in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 2023-22 for approximately 2.32 acres located at 5672 west packet drive
 then ward four from ra residential agricultural to rsf4 residential single family four units per acre any final comments from council i'll make a quick one um i'm not going to support this because i you know fundamentally i really believe that the riparian zone these areas close to streams need to be as low density as possible in ra so thank you okay anything else
 care of the police call the roll bench yes kurt no hertzberg yes jones yes more yes liquor yes bernard yes let's go on to number eight an ordinary zone that property inscribed is on the petition rzn 2023-0024 for approximately 6.79 acres located east of north college avenue near waterside
 Court in Ward 3 from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to CS Community Services. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to CS Community Services.
 section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Jonathan Thank You mayor allow me a moment please
 Here we go. Okay. Before jumping into both this and the next item, I did touch on this at agenda session, but for those who weren't able to attend, I want to draw your attention to the fact that both this item and the subsequent item are immediately adjacent to each other. You can see both those parcels represented here. We're in North Fayetteville in Ward 2. The first one on the agenda tonight that we'll be discussing is the left one or the western one that abuts College Avenue.
 It's just south of the locomotion.
 I'm not sure how to describe locomotion. I guess it's a recreational area, arcades, go-karts. Sorry, I lost myself there. And north of Lowe's Improvement. While it does abut College Avenue to the west, for those familiar with the property or not, now there's a significant amount of topography between this site and the state highway there, including what appears to be some small bluffs that may have been cleared out when College Avenue was originally constructed decades ago.
 The property is currently undeveloped and as you can see largely under tree canopy. Other characteristics of the site are that the northern property line is effectively a multi-use trail alignment as well. That is protected within a 30-foot wide access easement.
 Additionally, there is a small amount of floodplain that you can see here that impacts the northernmost regions of the property that's associated with Clear Creek. As you would expect given the amount of topography there, the majority of that floodplain actually impacts the property to the north rather than this one.
 With that in mind, the request for this property, sorry, yeah, one more piece of background I wanted to share with you is that this property did have a previous zoning designation. In 2006, both the two properties in question tonight were rezoned. The one we're discussing right now from C2 to PZD.
 And the one we'll discuss next from RO to PCD, and that was intended for the University Club Tower condominiums, was proposed and approved to be an 80 unit, 144 bedroom, 13 story building overlooking the bluff there. It did however expire, and in 2015 staff brought forward a ordinance to revert it back to its previous rezoning, which again puts it back as C2 Thoroughfare Commercial where it is today.
 which now brings us to tonight where the applicant has requested the site be rezoned from c2 thoroughfare commercial to cs community services staff does find this request to be compatible both the c2 and cs zoning districts offer very similar allowances in terms of non-residential uses they both allow restaurants they both allow retail they both allow offices where they begin to diverge is that the community services zoning district also allows residential uses
 While that is a generally atypical use in this part of town, staff has found
 Excuse me in both our guiding documents like the 71 B plan and our planning principles that we tend to practice in Fayetteville That adding residential to this portion of the city would be beneficial There are a significant amount of employment opportunities and recreational opportunities in the air these area this area where residents currently have to travel by vehicle to get to them Accordingly and again staff does find the request to be compatible from a land use standpoint for this reason. I
 Similarly, we find the request to be consistent with our Future Land Use Map designation for the property, which is City Neighborhood Area. Our Future Land Use Map segues from Urban Center Area immediately to the south, the City Neighborhood Area on this property. Urban Center is our most intense Future Land Use Map designation where it segues down to the City Neighborhood Area.
 The blue you see is intended to encourage a mix of uses wherever possible, but not to the degree of intensity that you find in our urban center areas. Staff feels that the CS Community Services Zoning District very much aligns with this by allowing a smaller scale of residential and non-residential uses, allowing buildings up to five stories where some other districts may allow seven or eight stories or more.
 uh looking at it also from an infill rating perspective this property does have several attributes that suggest it is an appropriate place for infill i did want to draw your attention though that because the infill map again is a as the crow flies kind of tool i did note that but it does get credit for both transit services but those are serving the mall area so if you can imagine how this property relates to that uh
 It made this property may not benefit today from that. However, if it was developed with more intensity, it may be fun grounds for transit service. When considering other issues, staff did of course look at what I described at the beginning with questions of access. With this property only being able to, or being adjacent to College Avenue right now and having a significant amount of topography with it, there is concern about how it would connect to our street network.
 Given this request and the next one, our requests are associated with each other. Stop does feel a level of comfort that'll be adequately addressed when and if the two rezonings are approved and come through for development in the future.
 Also, I noted earlier, this probably does have some amount, a very small amount of floodplain associated with Clear Creek along the northern reaches of it. Given the amount of topography, again, significant amount of topography on that northern property line, staff finds that area to be effectively undevelopable and does not pose a concern for us.
 Uh, unusually for resigning requests that the city council considers this will actually increase the amount of tree canopy required on the property. C2 is one of our more auto oriented zoning districts has one of our lowest tree canopy requirements of 15%. Whereas CS community services, one of our more mid tier intensity zoning districts requires 20%.
 And as for public comment, we have received a few or several inquiries about the request, but to date no statements for opposition or support. And ultimately, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly and with very minimal discussion, ultimately forwarded it to City Council unanimously. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor Jason Apple is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Thank you Jason Apple with ESI. Thank you for your request this evening. I'll answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or staff? Tracy. Thank you. Jonathan, do you have a topography map of that area?
 You know, I'm reminded when I bike up to Lake Fayetteville, I think that piece of property is on the right side as you're kind of going up that hill. And it does, if I recall correctly, it is really steep. But I thought it would be helpful if you actually had a topo map since there are some big geographical changes there.
 Certainly allow me a moment to pull that up. I don't have specific slopes called out, but I'll highlight the property in question if I'm...
 As you can see there's a fairly level area adjacent to Lowe's and as you move away from College Avenue and the location of the multi-use trail along the northern border it slopes up dramatically before flattening out on the top of the property. So since you have both, since you have that map pulled up, how do you envision, you know,
 you know we're going to go on to the next rezoning uh just after this one how do you envision that connectivity to happen looks like there's kind of a ravine or between those two properties that's a good question i can touch on it now i was going to touch on it in a minute but the other property is actually platted as an unbuildable lot it was part of the detention system for the adjoining plat but that was also contemplated as a part of the
 As a part of the previous PZD, if you allow me a moment, see if I can pull this up where it's visible.
 The applicant may be able to speak more about if there's a current detailed proposal for how it would be accessed, but here you can see the site plan from the previous project where it did include a right in right out near College Avenue. Obviously this has been superseded by the trail, but then would be intended to access out to the cul-de-sac as part of the project.
 which is Timberlake Office Park subdivision. But again, I'd have to defer to the applicant if they've gotten that far in their design at this point. Okay, could you go back one more time to the topographic map just for a second? And I guess the other question, do you anticipate, would there be a requirement for a detention pond since there was before?
 absolutely uh yes certainly i i can't envision if the development is even comparable to what was approved there before which i do not know if it is uh that amount of previousness would absolutely subject it to our full drainage criteria manual uh
 Additionally, we have seen this periodically where development plans change. Engineers can resubmit to our engineering division and they can effectively redesign an existing detention pond to capture additional runoff for water treatment as well or water quality as well.
 And I think you mentioned earlier that, correct me if I'm wrong, that CS allows five stories. Is that right? That's correct. Okay, great. Thank you so much for that additional information. That was very helpful. What other questions do we have? Okay, I'm going to take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Give us your name and address. Those present.
 In the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by then will speak after that. Who would like to address this on this topic in the chamber? Nobody. Okay. Well then I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. This is on the first reading. What discussion would the council like to have, or what action would the council like to take? I would like to ask. It's in Ward 3.
 have you all heard anything haven't heard a peep nothing okay jonathan have we had any just what was heard prior to the planning commission and yeah i think i accidentally said this is in ward two it is in board three sorry all right i have a few more questions mayor sure absolutely um so jonathan um you know there's a big slope right there by the bike trail like you just kind of saw on the topo map
 Is there anything that would prohibit development? Let's just say a, I'm just, you know, again, we've got to consider all the possibilities here when we go into rezoning, like a large deck overlooking the bike trail or anything like that. I mean, do we have any, I guess the bottom line is, do we have any prohibitions against building on slopes that are greater than 15% when they're not in the hillside, hilltop district? Okay.
 There are additional standards. I don't know if they apply to decks necessarily. In fact, typically our development code encourages interactions with our trail system rather than having developments turn their back to them. It's kind of, I wish, the chief's not here to speak to it, but that whole eyes on the street but eyes on the trail concept being applied here.
 Most of our steep slope requirements are associated with when walls are being constructed. And again, without knowing exactly what's being considered here, I'm not sure if that would be applicable here, if their intent is to shy as much as possible away from that. Okay, thank you. Any other questions? Well, let's take some public comment. Well, we had public comment, right? Sorry, sorry, sorry. Okay, we are, we're going to take a couple more questions.
 Mayor, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading, please. Second. Move motion second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Jems. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Burnham. Yes. And in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-24 for approximately 6.79 acres.
 located east of North College Avenue near Waterside Court in Ward 3, from C2 Territorial Fair Commercial to CS Community Services.
 May we suspend the rolls and go to the third reading? Yes, yes, yes Yes, or yes, yes Read it mayor
 And the ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 2023-24 for approximately 6.79 acres located east of North College Avenue near Waterside Court in Ward 3 from C2 TheraFair Commercial to CS Community Services. Any final comments from the council?
 Carriage, please call the roll. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Vernon? Yes. Thank you all. Number nine, an ordinance to resume that property as a ground resuming petition, RZN 2023-0023 for approximately 3.37 acres.
 located west of 4451 North Waterside Court in Ward 3 from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services. Skip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services.
 And Section 2 is that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan? Thank you, Mayor. I'll be brief, given the background I gave on the last item. Again, these are the two parcels. You just considered the one on the left. Now the item before you is the one on the right with the red arrow pointing at it.
 You can see here how where it see it in its context with the timber lake office subdivision. If you have the opportunity to visit the property before the council meeting, you saw that it is still under development. It's been increasingly built out over recent years, but this is one of the remaining lots because it was plotted as unbuildable.
 uh rather than cover all staff's findings because they were largely similar between these two i did want to cover the differences between the two requests this property is smaller of course it's 3.37 acres where the last one was over six uh while the last request was from c2 to cs this one is from ro to cs residential office to community services
 The biggest distinction there is that the ro zoning district does not allow the restaurant and medium scale uses that the c2 zoning district allows So this proposal would include those in addition to the multifamily residential that CS permits
 As far as differences in the issues that staff considered again, this property is adjacent to Waterside Court and the office subdivision there. So this have direct street access, including a curb cut today. It has no existing floodplain or hydric soils on the site. And as I noted already, it is indeed currently plated as unbuildable.
 With that, like I said, staff's findings otherwise were similar and we are recommending in favor and the Planning Commission also did so, forwarding it to the Council unanimously. Mayor Jason Apple is the applicant for this item as well. I don't know if he has anything additional to add, but I'm happy to take questions. Okay. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have for the applicant or Jonathan? One Mr. Mayor, Jonathan, why would someone plant anything unbuildable?
 Often because we require it when the lot is intended for for a purpose like detention We do it to not just ensure it stays in that function and definitely oil but also to protect future buyers that is often caught surprisingly often caught in In title searches that properties are undeveloped that may otherwise not be caught. We've seen some older pieces of of
 land and the city conveyed to people and they had no idea that they included stormwater facilities or a lift station or Facilities not a lift station. That's that's not happened. So I don't mean to cast aspersions on Tim's group But it does unfortunately happen periodically and so we do it in an effort to make sure it is Captured as perhaps one of the most legitimate documents that that anyone would consider when reviewing a piece of property and then how I
 How do we handle the conflict between zoning something as having uses and yet being platted unbuildable? In this case, and as I believe it was handled, taking this specific example, it typically comes with an implication that they want to, if it's a detention pond, re-engineer the property and replat it as buildable. That could be possible. There's also a lot of interactions in our development code, as with many cities where
 There can be unexpected conflicts if you're developing properties that straddle different zoning districts, whether it's a matter of building setbacks, building heights, things of that nature, or even access points coming from one zoning district to another can create issues.
 So generally it's a best practice wherever possible to have your developable area within one zoning district And that's why a lot of people are amenable to rezoning through RA and floodplain areas because that's not an area They intend to develop with a project. Thank you Okay, any other questions anything okay Well, we'll take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. Give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic is in the chamber. Who do you have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. All right. We have a motion second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the vote? Who was the first on that motion? Sarah, I think you were. And who was the second? No. It was one of us. There was a couple of them. It was one of those. Sarah's first. Just pick one, Karen. Just pick one. We're ready to go home. Fudge? Anyway. Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2023-23 for approximately 3.37 acres located west of 4451 North Waterside Court in Ward 3 from R.O. Residential Office to C.S. Community Services.
 Maybe suspend the rolls and go to the third reading second Yes, yes, yes Yes Yes
 In order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-23 for approximately 3.37 acres located west of 4451 North Waterside Court in Ward 3 from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services. Any final comments from the council?
 Caravans, please call the roll. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. All right, any announcements? Yes, your mayor, I have three announcements.
 This Saturday will be the second of our four bulky waste cleanups. This one is for Ward 3, and it is at the Sequoia Methodist Church on Old Wire Road. All the details can be found on the website. But also in conjunction with this particular bulky waste cleanup, the shredding service will be available also at the RTC.
 also on Saturday it's the square to square ride and we have 24 hours and then some if you have meant to and haven't signed up yet 1159 tomorrow night is the deadline but it starts in Bentonville and then concludes at Walker Park
 this Saturday and then finally on Monday the 9th we will have a Fire station number two groundbreaking at Woolsey and North Street, so that's our next project for a new fire station It happens at 2 p.m.. Public and all of you are welcome. Thank you Good work y'all