I'd like to go ahead and call the city council meeting on COVID-6 2020 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Here. Gutierrez? Gutierrez? Marsh? Here. Kenyon? Here. Petty? Petty. Scroggin? Present. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. Welcome. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall has closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I am present in the council chambers with a handful of essential sports staff.
 Ken Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk, Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Keith Macio, IT Director. Police Chief Mike Reynolds. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. Two representatives from Federal's IT Department. City Council Members, City Staff, and the public participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting
 are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers participation remains of utmost importance to the city of federal we have provided many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting including contacting city council members city clerk's office or city staff prior to the meeting viewing through federal's government channel online or city's youtube channel
 joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Staff will view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment. I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized.
 Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record. Public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor.
 Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Let us begin. Okay, the first thing...
 I would like to say tonight, under recognitions and announcements, on Thursday, October the 1st, 2020, the Arkansas Association of Chiefs of Police, AACOP, honored the ultimate sacrifice of Officer Stephen Carr, who was tragically killed in the line of duty on December the 7th, 2019. The Carr family was in attendance and was presented with the Fallen Officer of the Year Award.
 The AACOP also honored three officers that showed amazing bravery on the same night. Sergeant James Jennings, Corporal Shea Floyd, and Officer Natalie Yusey undoubtedly saved multiple lives on that night. The AACOP also honored Chief Mike Reynolds with the AACOP Chief of the Year Award for the State of Arkansas.
 chief reynolds was recognized for his unwavering and steadfast leadership and dedication to members of the police police department and the city of federal chief we're very proud of you stephen carr's service in the service of your officers you do this city proud we honor you all right um next we have the finance report by paul becker good evening mayor and council this report will be through the month of august
 2020. General fund as we discussed at the agenda session, sales taxes are up 2.9% compared to budget. One percent of that is due to the city penny and six percent of that is due to the turn back from the county. Franchise fees are up two percent. Court fees are down 23 percent.
 Parks and park programs are down substantially. They're down 25% compared to budget. Alcohol beverages are down. They're running about 60% of our budgeted numbers. And 911 fees because of change in the legislation were up substantially, almost $400,000 so far this year today.
 Building permits are essentially flat to the budget, so they're doing well at this point in time. Overall, the general fund is roughly on budget at this point on time. We're about 0.7% up in the general fund when we look at total revenue. Street fund is up 2.2%. That's being driven by the wholesale gas tax that was passed at the last legislative session.
 So that's helping us in the street fund. Those the street fund is up in revenue. Parking fund, again, it's taking a hit.
 We're down about 40% compared to last year. We're seeing a little improvement as the Dixon Street area opens up and becomes more active at this point in time. However, we're still down. We're starting to see a little better activity, but down for the year substantially at this point in time. Parks Development Fund HMR taxes were down 16% compared to last year.
 However, I do want to point out that July and the month of June were down 28% and 26%, respectively. So we're starting to see a pickup in the HMR taxes. Essentially what this is going to mean is we've cut back some of the capital programs for next year as our revenues behind a bit, however,
 the maintenance of the parks is still moving forward and we're able to afford that at this point in time. Water and sewer, the water and sewer fund total billings are up 2%. However, residential consumption is up almost 6% at this point in time. I would equate that to a couple of reasons. Number one, when we compare to last year,
 uh last year was a very very wet season historically one of the wet seasons that we had had which does affect consumption and the other is that we've had many more people staying home in their homes as the some of the school children are online studying many of the parents are working from home so consumption there has been up
 And I'll be bringing a budget adjustment forward actually to increase the water expenditures that would be for water district. However, that'll be offset by these increased revenues. But revenue is up in the water and sewer fund totally about 2% at this point in time. Trash and recycling is down roughly 2% in revenue compared to budget.
 Commercial is down and residential is up. They're kind of offsetting each other, but we are down 2% in total, but we have some decreases in related expenditure. The airport fund is down in revenue 19.7% in sales of gasoline, of jet fuel and Avgas compared to last year.
 However, the last month in sales did do better than we had been doing, but so far we will have a loss for the year in the airport fund should have sufficient, we'll have sufficient fund balance to handle that. All in all, I just like to summarize it and say we are now two thirds through the year of 2020. This point in time,
 I'm more than satisfied with our revenue receipts. I think that's more than we could expect had we looked and forecasted the coronavirus and what it did to the economy of Fayetteville. I think we've done very well at this point in time. I do wanna caution the council and remind them that I think we're going to have challenges, especially in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020
 meeting our budget projections. However, I hope I'm wrong. Sometimes I am, and I'll be more than happy to be wrong at this point in time. But at this point in time, I don't see any way we're gonna meet the budget projections in the fourth quarter. With that, I'll be happy to take any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Okay, let's move on to the consent agenda.
 There one approval of the we've got a walk on. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We do. Yes, we have a walk on Yes, I got it A resolution authorized the mayor to seek COVID-19 aid relief Economic Security Act funds for pandemic related expenses incurred by the city
 and to authorize the mayor to sign the COVID-19 relief fund program sub-recipient agreement for municipalities and counties. Now this is one paragraph and Kip at this time would you read that for us? Well mayor before I do that why don't we ask the city council to spin the rules so we can place this on the agenda. Yes. And we need a motion to spend the rules please. I move we suspend the rules and place this item on the agenda.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to suspend rules and put this on the agenda. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. With that passed, Mayor, so now I'll read the body of the resolution. Okay.
 Be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to seek Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act funds for pandemic-related expenses incurred by the City, and further authorizes the Mayor to sign the
 CARES Act agreement for municipalities and counties, as well as any other documents necessary to receive the funds. Okay, Paul. First off, I'd like to apologize to the council. I wish we would have had more time before we brought this forward. However, we just got these documents yesterday and we felt it was very important to come forward because we have a very short timeframe.
 As the CARES Act was passed, there was a portion of the CARES Act that applied to support for municipalities and counties. The large municipalities, very large municipalities, got that funding directly from the federal government. However, what they did for smaller counties and municipalities was to send that funding to the state.
 for distribution by the state. And this is for coronavirus relief. We have been waiting for instructions from the state. We just received them yesterday. And essentially how this is structured is the state has set up a relief fund. The municipalities will petition for reimbursements
 for funding from the federal government that's flowing through the state. So we're going to request reimbursements. We won't know until they are approved or accepted by the state. There's been a congressional committee that's been put together to consider some of this funding if in fact a program request is over $50,000.
 But we should expect some substantial reimbursements to the city because we can apply for public safety officers that were redirected because of the coronavirus. We should be able to put in for reimbursements and get reimbursements for expenses associated with our people working from home,
 computers, things of that nature, additional expansions of IT. Can't give you an exact figure on what it is. However, as the money comes in, we will take it in, and I'll keep the council informed how much it is as we go forward with
 some large expenditures we'd like to make to apply for. We'll identify those to the council for your consideration at that point in time, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? I have a question. Yeah.
 Paul, when is the deadline that you all have to submit the reimbursements? And is there a cap? You mentioned $50,000. I'm anticipating that our request for reimbursement would be more than that. But is there a limit? Well, thanks for asking those questions. Teresa, I should have indicated what our timetable is.
 we have to request for program consideration by November 25th. All expenses have to be completed by the end of December. The rough cap that the state has indicated to us would be an excess of $2 million, potentially, in reimbursements actually pushing closer to $3 million.
 So that would be the cap if in fact improved, if in fact improved. However, we only have until November 25th to make program requests. I have a follow up question. Can you, since the pandemic is continuing and expenses are continuing, can you project out past November 25th to the end of the calendar year?
 I can't really at this point in time. I think by the end of November, I should be in a position to do that. However, we'll have continuing expenses. Like I said, there are a number of programs I'd like to push forward. I hate to dollarize it at this point of time when I really don't have all of the information I need. Okay, thank you very much. What other questions do we have, Councilor?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minutes broken into segments of three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or our city council members. Stay on the topic. The topic is the money that cares money. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Thank you.
 Okay, I will bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Move we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right, Kara, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Brown?
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now let's move on to consent. Number one, approval of the September 1st, 2020 and September 15th, 2020 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $5,208. Recognize reimbursements from the Arkansas Municipal League Vehicle Program and shelter insurance for damages to city vehicles. Number three, a resolution to award bid number 20-66 and to authorize a contract with Goodwin & Goodwin, Inc. any amount of $315,139.
 and 10 cents for the construction and rehabilitation of water pressure sustaining and reducing valves and to improve a project contingency in the amount of 63 thousand twenty seven dollars and eighty two cents number four a resolution to amend
 to amendment to approve amendment number four to the professional engineering services agreement with olsen incorporated in an amount not to exceed fifty eight thousand eight hundred dollars for engineering services related to the east federal water system improvements project
 Number five, a resolution to accept and quote any amount of $45,042.86 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from J.R. Stewart Pump and Equipment Incorporated for the repair of a pump and motor used at the Hamstring Sewer Lift Station. Number six, a resolution to approve an amendment to the contract with InPlace Machining Company
 any amount of twenty thousand four hundred and sixty one dollars and thirty one cents for additional costs associated with the pair of a rotor shaft on the thermal dryer at the bowel solids management
 Number seven, a resolution to approve the 2020 community development block grant CDBG action plan and to authorize Mayor Jordan to execute a CDBG agreement for 2020, any amount of $741,644 when received and to approve a budget adjustment. Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 20-73 and authorize a contract with
 building exteriors incorporated in the amount of seventy thousand six hundred fifty eight dollars for the installation of 160 trees along the cato springs trail and to approve a project contingency in the amount of seven thousand dollars
 Number nine a resolution to award bid number 20 Day 72 and the authorized contract with sweet sir construction incorporated any amount of four hundred thirty nine thousand one hundred ninety two dollars and sixty cents for construction of a larger gully park township parking lot To approve a project contingency in the amount of twenty thousand dollars and to approve a budget adjustment This is the 2019 parks improvement bond project passed by the people number ten. I
 a resolution to award bid number 20-71 and to authorize contract with Goodman and Goodman Incorporated in the amount of $205,426.10 for the construction of Palmer Avenue drainage improvements project to approve project contingency in the amount of $30,810 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a
 another 2019 drainage bond project passed by the people number 11 a resolution toward bid number 20-74 and authorized contract with the with milestone construction company llc in the amount of 427 thousand 919 dollars and 21 cents for the restoration of the town center plaza to approve a project contingency in the amount of forty thousand eighty one dollars and to approve a budget adjustment
 this is another 2019 city facilities improvements bond project passed by the people number 12 a resolution to approve a professional architectural services agreement with miller boscus lac architects pa pursuant to rfq 19-01 for the architectural services associated with the avon richmond community center expansion to approve phase one of the contract in the amount of 27 000
 and $27,390 for programming and systematic design to authorize planning Commissioner Matt Hoffman to provide services to the city and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 park improvement bond project passed by the people. So I would intend a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. Second.
 All right, we'll have a motion and a second to pass the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. What? Froggen? Yes. If he does, it's a matter of dog. She did. Bunch? Bunch? Did you call me? Yes, yes. Turd? Yes.
 okay thank you all moving on to unfinished business an ordinance to weigh competitive being an authorized new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement with an easement agreement with the arkansas missouri railroad for a new railroad crossing the virtual drive in greg avenue to approve a project contingency any amount of 28 344.86 and to approve a budget adjustment
 for the estimated total project cost of $750,000 since 2019 transportation bond project passed by the people. Chris, I believe you have this.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. We're still working on it. We're not there yet, so we're not ready to ask for consideration of approval for this tonight. So we'd like to request this to be tabled. We are working, still talking to the railroad. We've sent them a proposed revised contract to approve.
 change the closure location to Jocelyn Lane like we talked about last time. I've also sent the couple of plans to the property owner who's impacted by that closure to mitigate their closure with some driveway improvements. So we're trying to get feedback from that property owner as well. We are still talking to the railroad. I think we've got a good conversation going and I think we're making progress.
 but we're just not quite there yet. We don't have the revised contract signed by the railroad. So it'll be at least another two weeks. We are though making some, you know, we're moving somewhat forward on this. It's obviously encouraged by some of the emails back and forth between us and the railroad. And I think we're getting there, but we're gonna need a couple of weeks before we can get things finalized, I think, sure.
 We need a motion to table if we can. Yes. So we need a motion. Yes. Chris, it's two weeks realistically enough. Do you want a motion to table indefinitely so we can bring this back off the table whenever you're ready to do it? Honestly, I'd be guessing probably indefinitely, but I'll yield to the mayor on that as to what he would prefer to do. I'll move we table this indefinitely and we can bring it back up at agenda session as soon as it's all done.
 all the T's are crossed and I started. I'll second that. Okay, motion to table indefinitely. I will say, I think within two weeks, we probably are gonna see some sort of answer on this, but we can table it indefinitely. Would you, any discussion on that? Care which please call the roll. Smith? Yes. Adara? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kurt? Yes. Thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 20-01 located at 3670 West Mount Comfort Road for approximately 2.01 acres from RA Residence Agricultural to CS Community Services. I believe they're
 There's been a little movement on this in the last day or so. Yes, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor and Council. We did get an email from the applicant's representative yesterday asking to have the item withdrawn from your agenda. I talked to the applicant's representative, and they understand that that kills the application. They're not wanting an indefinite continuance.
 Okay. Gartner, you say they did not want it tabled indefinitely? No, they're not requesting that. All right, then we'll have to be voted down then. And so we better get a motion to go to second or third or whatever we're at so we can vote on it. Then if they want to withdraw, we need to vote it down. Is that what you're saying? Let me make sure I clarify what I asked them. I said, you don't want to continue this to be considered at a later agenda.
 And they said no. So probably indefinite continuance would achieve the same goal if that's more efficient. It can be tabled indefinitely. Well, why don't we table it indefinitely? So moved. Second. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to table indefinitely. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now we're going to have a, I'm going to open a public hearing.
 And it's a resolution granting a certificate of public convenience and necessity to Ambassador Taxi for the operation of up to six taxi cabs in the city of Federal. Chief, I believe you have this.
 Yes, sir. Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council. This is a public hearing for Ambassador Taxi Company, who is seeking a certificate of public conveyance and necessity. City Ordinance 117 does require this hearing for the Council to determine if there is a further need for taxicab service in Fayetteville.
 Ambassador's application, which is in your packets, contains all information that's required by our ordinance. Ambassador is requesting a maximum of six taxicabs be permitted, and the city currently has three taxicabs permitted in Fayetteville. The first one is Fayetteville Taxi, the second one is Payless Taxi, and the third is Dynasty Taxi. Fayetteville Taxi has one vehicle and one driver currently permitted.
 Also, Payless Taxi has two vehicles and one driver permitted, and Dynasty Taxi has not permitted any vehicles or drivers in 2020. And if they do not permit any vehicles or drivers by the end of 2020, they will abandon their certificate by ordinance. Bill Dethridge, I believe, is here tonight as a panelist, and he is representing Ambassador Taxi Company. So we'd be happy to turn that over to him there. Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the counsel?
 You have 10 minutes. I see Joshua's hand and I see Christina Osborne's hand, but I don't see. Okay. I'm not sure what to make of Joshua. There's another person here who wants to speak from the public, but not the applicant. So we don't have the applicant. Not that I can tell. No, actually the person Keith is working with is not the applicant. He is speaking from the public. He's another provider.
 Okay, well. We don't have the applicant. Okay, we don't have the applicant, so what questions do we have, council, for the chief? Do we have any idea how many Uber drivers there are or Lyft? No, council member Scroggins, we do not. That is all those public network companies are all governed by the state of Arkansas, and they don't provide that information to us, nor do they have to by state law.
 Yeah, that's pretty unfortunate. I don't feel that we should be limiting taxis when we can't limit Uber and Lyft. So that's just kind of my opinion on this. Thank you. I have a question. Did I hear you correctly, Chief, that Ambassador is asking for six cars or six cabs?
 It's a maximum of six cabs, a minimum of two. So on the application, they've asked for a minimum of two and a max of six.
 Okay, I'm just just thinking out loud that six seems a bit excessive compared to the other three cab companies that only have one or two or no cabs, but I'm not a proponent to limit to limiting competition within our city. So thank you for that clarification. Who else? I have a question.
 I feel much the same as council member Scroggins did. And so this question might be a little bit abstract to the current item. Is it necessary that we continue to hold these public hearings? Well, it's part of our code. And unless the city council changes the code, then this is how we're going to handle it. You know, we do inspect the cabs. We require them to have insurance, things like that. Uh,
 Uber and Lyft, of course, were removed from our jurisdiction and given to the state, but they do have some insurance requirements, I think, at the state level, and they have, I guess, some control over their drivers. We do check the drivers that are supposed to be driving taxi cabs, and they would not be checked by the state. So without a public hearing and the kind of requirements that we have, basically you could have...
 Someone that might not have a safe vehicle that would be out driving around as a taxi. So I think probably there is some reason to continue some regulations toward the cabs, although I certainly agree that we have much more stringent regulations than I think the state does for Uber and Lyft. Okay, thank you.
 I'm prepared to support the application for the reasons Councilmember Scroggins stated. And I guess it just seems like we're putting a lot of red tape on taxi operators that we don't on rideshare drivers. Okay. Anything else from Council? Yes.
 Mayor Jordan, may I say something? Sure. I just wanted to say thank you so much to Sergeant Dykus, who really worked with this company and worked directly with the city clerk office in order to get everything ready for the agenda. I mean, Sergeant Dykus is wonderful and easy to work with and really has gone above and beyond the call of duty to be able to take care of all this for them. Thank you for that. I'll pass that along. They make my job easy. Okay. Anything else from the council?
 All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minute duration broken into segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic, which is the taxi cab license, I suppose. Let's see. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Mayor Stu Larrabee is on. OK.
 go ahead he's logged in with a device from i.t under joshua mellow's name good evening can i be heard yes um has the applicant presented yet the applicant is not in attendance okay so they will not be presenting not unless they're here all right all right
 The notice I got about this was just a phone call. No paperwork back up, as always has been done in the past. Trying to download this information. I don't know. The website's been revamped since the last time I visited it. And I had to basically go through the 1,147 pages in the archives in order to call out this information.
 This isn't how it's been done. This is kind of a blind side. To correct some information on the record, this is the fourth time that Ambassador has done a city council meeting. The first time they were denied and
 Some of the things that were going on then was that we already had an oversaturation at that time period versus what was going on at that time period. And the ownership at that time period indicated that what they were concerned about is that they were losing the runs when they came down here and brought somebody down to take them back up to.
 Rogers on the weekend and they were complaining that they were losing 60 $70 runs. I don't this kind of indicated cream skimming and cherry picking on those part on reapplying when they did.
 And over and over again, they have failed repeatedly to bring all their drivers in to have background checks done by the police department. And they just casually do one or two vehicles to kind of make it look good. And then they run other vehicles down here that have never been inspected. This has gone on time and time and time again. These complaints have been filed with various sergeants over time, and nothing has ever been done about it. The fees that have to be paid for those vehicles aren't.
 And to interject, there was a question by one of the respectful councilmen about do we need to do this? This is a state required statutory requirement
 for every state to have taxicab. And this is derived out of federal. This is directed that this shall be done by every city. Now, although it's not being done by every city, it's a shall issued by Arkansas statute, including examining basically the drivers, getting down to almost moral turpitude,
 and getting into the need and how it's going to affect the other drivers. I'm sorry, the other existing companies. Once you get too many companies, there's not enough to support it. Uber and Lyft has already decimated everything. Everybody down to just a couple of cabs.
 And they want to claim that they're in Bentonville, Rogers, Springdale, coming to Fayetteville, also Sloan Springs, working the airport. And we're going to do that. It's a little bit of a conflict. The insurance you have shows two cars. Other insurance they have shows three cars. But we're going to cover everything with that. Yet they say they're going to bring two cars down here to Fayetteville. And that business doesn't even exist down here.
 Now, I have a problem. I've been trying to get on the coupon program for years, but Mayor Jordan's blocking it. I have all these recordings from staff members. Dynasty gets it. Payless Taxi gets it. But I'm not allowed to. I have more insurance than everybody. I have workman's comp, including workman's comp on myself. You're paying out federal monies to people who don't even have workman's comp.
 This is nuts. This is crazy. You got Dynasty slash Hog Taxi coming out of, and it's not closed yet, a Fair Labor Standard lawsuit where they didn't pay anybody enough money to even make minimum wage. And this is still going on. And Dynasty is running around illegally still, and so are other companies.
 I mean, this is ridiculous. The pie cannot be cut up any more than it is. Now, they're proposing $20 minimum or $3 a mile. This is not how a taxi meter works. Taxi meter is required by the U.S. Department of Commerce, period. These app meters, these standalone app meters, will never be approved. I have that documentation from the U.S. Department of Commerce, yet they're using them.
 And why don't they have a drop rate? These rates do not, and they're not consistent with how it's supposed to work. And how is it they put a minimum on Springdale and Rogers of $15, including Rogers coupon holders at 15, yet now they're going to come down here and charge 20. When the ordinance clearly states you can't charge more than $12 on a coupon run, yet we got Payless Taxi posting it on the web that they're billing $20 and plus on these with pictures, right?
 So we're overpaying. We're not letting somebody that has more insurance, more licenses. And by the way, I've always paid for at least two cars. I have two cars, sticker. Always have every year, sometimes four. You have 10 seconds to wrap up. I have two drivers, and I'd like to know why I'm being blocked from taking it when I have more insurance than everybody. Always been legal, consistent, and there. Time. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this?
 Mayor, Christina Osborne. Mayor, before we take that next public comment, I wanted to address something that the previous gentleman just spoke about with the agenda. Whenever you're going out and taking a look at the website, there's two different places where the agenda is stored. It sounds like the section that you're on is where the agenda is archived.
 If you go out to the Fayetteville-AR.gov website and you click on upcoming minutes or agendas, that's the section where you need to go to look at the links where it can go and show you the direct documents that pertain to that agenda item.
 So again, there's two different locations. One, you're going to see a full PDF of all the documents for archival purposes. The other link on upcoming agendas and minutes is where you can go in and have the separate links for all of those documents. Okay. Okay.
 Chief, did you have something you wanted to say? Mayor, I did. As I sat down, I was informed via text that Christina Osborne is on the line, and she's here to represent Ambassador Taxi tonight. So I'm sorry for the confusion. Okay, no problem. Now we have Christina. Okay, go ahead. Hello, I'm Christina Osborne. I am the administrator with Ambassador, and I'm here to represent the company. We –
 Started in 2011, and then Billy, our current owner, bought it in 2015, and he's now mostly retired. And I haven't done this before, especially over Zoom, so I'm not sure what you all need from me, but I'm here to answer any questions you might have. Okay, do we have any questions for the applicant from the council? Okay, let's go back. Is there any other public comment?
 Yes, your mayor. Kyle Imsall. Yes, go ahead. Hello? Hello? Go ahead. Yeah, my name is Joe Washington. Did you get that? Can you hear me? Yes. Somehow I show that you are Kyle Imsall. Do you know Kyle Imsall? I do, but he's the owner of Payless Taxi. I'm the owner of NWA Taxi. Well, we...
 Excuse me, how did you get the link? The problem here is that you might be sharing a link to this meeting. So please go ahead and state your name and address. Okay, my name is Joe Washington. I'm the owner of NWA Taxi. I appeal Box 1444 in Fayetteville, but I just wanted to get on here just for a few minutes and say thank you.
 you know, congratulations to Chief Reynolds for what he accomplished. I also want to say Sergeant Dykus, she's unbelievable. I mean, all the stuff that she has to put up with is unbelievable, unbelievable.
 But I just want to say, you know, listening to Mr. Larrabee, I mean, he's always been the person that blames everybody for his faults. It's always me. That is the number one reason that the taxicab companies cannot get along. If we can figure out a way for us to all get along together,
 We can make Fayetteville so much better. But I'm telling you, Fayetteville Taxi, Mr. Larrabee, he's a bad apple in this whole thing. I'm all for new people coming in, trying to help, because this is the thing. If we make the older generation wait for us to get there and we don't have enough taxi cabs, they got to wait, they got to wait, they got to wait, what sense does that make?
 But Mr. Larrabee, everything is about him. And he's a bad seed. Mayor, I hate the way he throws your name around. I hate the way he treats you. I hate the way he talks to you. I hate everything about that. And I'm just telling you, I'm not with that. But we got to figure out, he always wants to keep everybody else out of this clan. And if he wants to be the bad apple, then we need to get him out of the clan and then see how this thing works.
 I'm just telling you, Sergeant Dykus does a great job. She knows how to handle it. She's very professional. Anytime I call her and listen, I was in Fairville. I chose to kind of back out because I didn't kind of like the way
 Every time I'm down there, Stewart figures out a way to harass me or my guys. Nobody ever does anything right. And I've made reports. I've filed reports. You know, he's talking about people trying to come down to Fairville to work. Well, he's coming up here to Benton County to work. So it's all good. So anyway, I took enough of your time. I just wanted to say that for you guys. And again, Chief Reynolds, congratulations. Okay. Okay.
 So now we have Kyle Imsall, I think. This is the second login for Kyle Imsall. Is there a Kyle Imsall here? Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Hello? Are you the real Kyle? Can you hear me? Yes. Okay, can you hear me? Yeah, I got you. Go ahead. Okay. All right, thank you for letting me speak. I'm just going to make this short and brief. Okay.
 I kind of agree with Mr. Washington on what he said about the taxi companies trying to get along and trying to meet the need. Of course, Uber and Lyft has come in and caused a great controversy. I was there when Uber began, and I've seen it all happen. But there is a big difference from taxis and Ubers. Not just anybody can hop in an Uber. You've got to have it preordered on the app.
 and there has to be a credit card involved and it has to be approved. So a taxi is obviously different. You can just hop on in and get on in and pay, and so there's an easier factor for a taxi if people were to use them in the city. The thing with Uber and Lyft, of course, is the success with them is how quick they get there and being able to see your driver, but I think the good news about a taxi is that they can be hanging around and you can jump in.
 I will say this, Stuart has caused a lot of controversy and he has hurt the taxi industry here in Fayetteville through his discord that's evidently being spread and evidently being seen by the public. Just hang on a minute. I know everybody, there seems to be a squabble among us.
 the taxi folks and really we're not here to referee the tax and companies tonight. What we're here is because Ambassador Taxi wants to set up operations. I think we need to stay on the topic. Do you have an issue with that?
 I don't have an issue with it. I spoke with Christina. I told her I'd like to work with her and get along and try to fit the need. There's not a real big need here, but there is times that we will need people to go get people, and I spoke with her, and she's more than willing to work together. So I don't have an issue with her. I get along with her. I spoke with her. There's no issue there with me. But I do have an issue, however, with the problem with –
 people harassing other taxis and going around spreading discord and slander. I think that needs to be addressed as well in order for us to operate smoothly here in this city. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, well, I'm gonna bring this back to the council. What's the wishes to council? What discussion do we have from the council on that?
 nobody's got an opinion with a public hearing do we need to approve or just well i just i just want to know if you all want to discuss whether we needed the ambassador taxi company to set up operations and uh yes we are are going to i guess we can close the public meeting now and bring it back to the council
 And it is a resolution. It is a resolution, so you all need to decide whether you want another taxi cab company to open up or not. I move to approve their application. Okay. Okay. We have a motion and a second to approve the application. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Smith?
 Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Turk? Yes. Well, there you go. All right. Let's go to new business. Number one, a resolution to award bid number 20-57 an authorized contract with
 horseshoe construction incorporated in the amount of 2 million 197 855 dollars for construction services associated with the kitty creek sewer improvements project to approve a project contingency in the amount of 219 785.50 and to approve a budget adjustment tim thank you mayor
 The city's 2014 wastewater collection system master plan recommended upsizing the existing 10-inch clay sewer line that runs along Kitty Creek from Vantage Drive south of Joyce Boulevard northward to Zion Road.
 This aging line would be replaced with an 18 inch and a 15 inch flexible high density polyethylene thermoplastic pipe, commonly known as HDPE and PVC pipe, to reduce existing surcharging and to provide capacity for future development in this part of town. McClellan Engineering has completed all design and permitting work and the project will include pipe bursting
 to avoid costs and time associated with trenching a new parallel line. We did use this technology successfully on the Ramsey-Orbercrest project in 2016. We'll pipe burst approximately 4,500 feet of the project, and we will use about 800 feet of PVC pipe.
 On August the 13th, the city accepted seal bids for the project and Horseshoe Construction submitted the lowest bid of $2,197,855. Budgeted funds will be moved from the wastewater impact fee improvement account to the sanitary sewer rehabilitation account to cover the cost of this project since it does meet the requirements to utilize impact fee funds.
 This item was presented to the Water and Surgery Committee on September 8th with the unanimous vote to forward to the City Council for consideration. Staff does recommend approving the construction contract with Horseshoe Construction in the amount of $2,197,855 with a contingency of $219,785.50 and approving a budget adjustment. We'd be happy to answer any questions.
 What questions do we have in the council? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration in three and two segments. Three minutes and two-minute segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is a resolution. What's the wishes of the Council? I move we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Is there any final comments from the Council or any discussion or anything? All right. Tara, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number two, a resolution to encourage all land
 landlords and federal to make reasonable accommodations to work with their tenants adversely impacted either physically or economically by the COVID-19 virus pandemic in order to avoid evictions. Teresa, I believe you and Kyle are bringing this.
 yes thank you mayor this is a non-binding resolution but it simply expresses the intent i hope of myself and kyle and our fellow colleagues on the council to work with people to work with their tenants during this pandemic and to seek solutions rather than evictions or late payment fees
 I just saw an article the other day where there were 476 evictions in the month of September in Arkansas. I have no idea, did not state how many were in Washington or Benton County, but putting people out on the street should be the last resort.
 And this would be a measure of compassion and collaboration and working with your tenant to try and find some kind of solution, maybe an extended payoff period or something like that. So this is simply a resolution to encourage landlords to work with their tenants. Thank you.
 Okay. Kyle, do you have anything to add? Not particularly. I think Theresa covered the basics here. It's unfortunate that we can't take more decisive action on this, but I think it's still worth making the statement and reminding our community what's at stake for our economy if we have people who are struggling to stay in their homes.
 It may be hard to pay rent when you lose a job, but it's even harder to get a job when you don't have a place to stay. So this is a vicious cycle if we don't enlist everybody's help to put a pause in it. So thank you. Okay, what questions do we have in the city council? All our statements, okay. Let's take some public comment.
 everybody has one turn to speak you have five minutes uh broken into segments of three minutes and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member stay on the topic uh no rude behavior please give us your name and address who would like to be first okay i'm going to bring it back to the city council this is a resolution what is the wishes of the council i move we pass the resolution
 Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Is there any final comments from the council? All right. Kara, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's move along to D3.
 An ordinance to temporarily suspend service deposit cutoffs and accruals of late charges on city utility bills for nonpayment due to the inability to pay because of the COVID-19 virus pandemic disaster emergency. This is something that Paul and I have worked on. Go ahead, Paul. Well, I need to read the ordinance. I'm very sorry. Whereas in the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic...
 The Mayor suspended utility service cutoffs for customers for non-payment of balances due because of their inability to pay due to lack of funds caused by the pandemic. And whereas the Mayor also used his emergency and executive powers to spend the normally required security deposit and accrual of late fees if caused by the customer's financial problems related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 And whereas since many of our current customers cannot pay a security deposit or balance due on their accounts because of lack of funds caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the administration is requesting that the city council formally approve and extend the temporary suspension of utility service cutoffs, accruing of penalties and posting of security deposits if caused by the inability to pay due to the pandemic.
 And whereas these measures should remain in effect until the pandemic emergency as declared by the governor has ended and economic conditions in Fayetteville have improved. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that it would be in the best interest of the citizens and City of Fayetteville to extend the temporary suspension of the requirement of service deposits,
 cutoffs of service, and accruals of late charges on silly utility bills for nonpayment due to the inability to pay because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 After the official end of the COVID-19 virus pandemic disaster emergency, the City Council's request that the Mayor, through his staff, continue to work with wastewater customers to recoup all overdue utility payments over time while the customers fully pay all of the current charges timely.
 and i should note that the resolution that was just passed in the last whereas clause asking as it said whereas the city is only asking landlords to do what the city has already done by refraining from requiring security deposits not charging late fees and refraining from cutting off water
 wastewater recycling and trash service from residential customers so adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic that they could not fully pay their utility bill on time. So we're asking for an extension here and then I'll yield to Paul, Mayor. Yes, Paul, go ahead. As the Mayor said in March, when the pandemic was announced, a key part of the ways of not spreading
 The virus was through washing of hands and cleanliness of the people. At that point in time, under the mayor's emergency powers, with discussion with the mayor, the mayor used those emergency powers to suspend cutting off
 taxing penalties, or requiring a deposit from new customers strictly because of the lack of the funds to make payment. So this is to help our customers who are under stress currently and cannot make payment at this point of time. Again, it would end when the governor ends the pandemic.
 But up to that point in time, we're recommending that this be done. I brought this to the Water and Sewer Committee for discussion and recommendation. And the Water and Sewer Committee unanimously recommended that we bring this forward with their recommendation of approval to the City Council. And I will be more than happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have from the Council? Okay. Okay.
 Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. Five-minute duration broken into three-minute and two-minute segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and who would like to address us first. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What is the wishes of the council?
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second. We go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 An ordinance to temporarily suspend service deposits, cutoffs, and accruals of late charges on city utility bills for non-payment due to the inability to pay because of the COVID-19 virus pandemic disaster emergency. And will we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? We're on the second. On the third reading? Yes. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll.
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 An ordinance to temporarily suspend service deposits, cutoffs, and accruals of late charges on city utility bills for nonpayment due to the inability to pay because of the COVID-19 virus pandemic disaster emergency. What final comments do we have in the council? I would like to say, you know, council, we can't fix everything. But, you know, this in a small way can help some people. And we just take it one day at a time. But this has helped, and I really appreciate it.
 that you all are considering this and I know you're going to pass this because that's kind of folks you are and we're all in this thing together and we'll get through this together and this is a small way we can help help those who sometimes can't help themselves folks that uh the the uh this time in their life has been a testing and trying but we can help them in a small way get through this this is one of the ways we do it so with that uh Karen would you please call the roll. Smith. Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Okay, number four, a resolution to name the city park of about 65 acres located on Dean Solomon Road as Underwood Park is recommended by the staff and the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board.
 Connie, I believe you had this. Connie's here somewhere. There she goes. Good evening, Mayor and City Council. I was going to share my screen with you. And there we are. Okay. Do you have the one picture or just? Yes, we do. We've got one picture, looks like. Then some little pictures. Connie, you need to start your slideshow. Yes, yes.
 That's pretty good. There we go. How's that? That's good. Wonderful. Wonderful. Good evening. The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and staff recommend naming the six and a half acre park located on the former Razorback Golf Course as Underwood Park.
 In July, City Council approved the Underwood development as a commercial planned zoning district that included 602 multifamily units and a park. This park eliminates the service gap in the northwest area of our city as shown on this map. Hold on.
 For years, this location has been the scene of several potential developments that resulted in community resistance. Our citizens wanted a large community park like Wilson or Gully Park to serve this area of the city. The Underwoods collaborated with Parks and Recreation Step and the neighbors in the selection of the park property. This slide shows the development land in red and the park in green.
 52% of the 125-acre development is designated as parkland. The park property will be dedicated to the city in separate parcels based on development milestones. The Underwoods would like to gift 38 acres to the city with the park to be named Underwood Park. This parkland gift represents 57% of the total parkland.
 Our city attorney is working with the Underwoods on a no-cost lease for the remaining parkland, with the exception of the large pond, which will be dedicated after completion of the multifamily unit and the pond modifications needed for stormwater requirements. The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board unanimously voted to name the park Underwood Park, which follows the park naming policy based upon the following three points.
 The first point is the Underwoods are contributing significantly to the acquisition of the park by donating over 57% of the 64.5 acre park to the city.
 The Park Land Dedication Ordinance places an average value on park land of $47,130 per acre, which would equal to about $1.8 million in value for the donated land.
 The second point is the Underwoods have a long history of providing exceptional service to parks by allowing the recreational trails at Mount Sequoia Park to be located on their adjacent property, which increases the overall recreational value of the park at no charge to the city or the people of Fayetteville. The third point is...
 Laura Unwood has provided exceptional service to the park system by serving on the nonprofit Friends of Yvonne Richardson Community Center Board for over six years.
 Laura was awarded the Distinguished Volunteer of the Year in the state of Arkansas by the Arkansas Recreation and Parks Association for her achievements and dedication in serving the YRCC as a board member, including her role as president. Laura has also served the Fayetteville community as a member of the Fayetteville Public Schools Board of Education.
 Staff commends Craig and Laura Underwood for their visionary planning of the former Razorback Golf Course land and the important inclusion of significant green space. Their inclusion of park acreage validates their commitment to the city of Fayetteville, as well as the growth and importance of parks and recreation.
 This site provides a unique community park with a conservation theme that can provide the people of Theano with some of their highest priorities for parks, which includes facilities that support an active lifestyle and closeness with nature. Additionally, this park is well suited to help form a significant conservation and trail corridor, adding substantial value to our city.
 We are extremely grateful for the passion and dedication that the Underwoods have towards parks and recreation and the people of the City of Fayetteville. They have provided lifelong assets for our community to enjoy for decades to come that warrants naming the park Underwood Park.
 I would like to introduce Keith Tincliffe from our Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, whose work was instrumental in obtaining this park. Thank you, Connie and Mayor and City Council. You know, Connie did a great job of really highlighting the strategic aspect of why this park is needed so bad in the northwest side of town.
 You know, she also touched on the Underwood's impact really on the community, both through this park, but also in the larger city. And she did a great job of that. But I want to touch on two additional reasons that I believe that this park should be named Underwood Park. First of all, I'll say their heart.
 You know, when I first spoke with Craig about this project, it was about a year and a half ago. And the primary thing I remember about this discussion was our conversation about the impact this park would make on the city of Fayetteville. We connected really over Craig's desire for other families across the socioeconomic spectrum.
 really to have the experience that what he and Laura did with their kids at goalie park. And we, you know, since that time we've had to work through a lot of details to make, make everything fit and make everything mutually beneficial. But I can testify to you that this heart perspective was central to the Underwood seeking to do this project from the beginning. It was foundational. The second reason is the example this sets is,
 naming of a park of this caliber is not to be taken lightly. And it really is a legacy issue from a city perspective with our caliber of parks. And this is a project, though, where a developer sought to go beyond a simple financial gain and sought to do good for the larger community. And if we want to set an example for this type of development, that this is what we want to see,
 we should reward them with legacy type and legacy type ways. And naming of this park, Underwood Park, will shine a light for the entire community, particularly for other developers, that this is the type of mindset we reward in Fayetteville. And so with that, I'll be glad to take any questions, but I appreciate your listening to us. What questions do we have, Council? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration broken into three-minute and two-minute segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and who would like to address us first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What is the wishes of the council? I move we pass the resolution. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to pass resolution. What final comments do we have for the council? Mayor, I'd just like to say a round of thanks because this is the...
 I was going to call it the culmination but I think we have several steps further to go before that. In a long process that has involved a lot of folks working hard together. Thank you Keith for your vision and being the driving force behind getting this Northwest gap in our park system filled quicker than I ever thought we would see it. Especially thank you to the neighbors that are working
 got on board to work with the developer and the landowners and to make sure that we were all working together on the front end to address their concerns. And of course, thank you to the Underwoods because this is a generous gift that I think is gonna be much loved and well remembered in this part of town for a long, long time. So thank you. What are other final comments you have, council?
 I have one. I also want to thank the Underwoods because being able to retain the riparian area and link that up to Wilson Springs, that's going to improve water quality greatly that of course flows downstream into the Illinois River. So that's another side note, another benefit from their generosity. And I'm so pleased that everybody was able to work together
 on this project was, I think, just a stellar, outstanding effort made by everyone. So thank you all. Thank you, the neighbors, the staff, and the Underwoods for the generous donation. Yes. Anything else? I too would like to thank the Underwoods for this great donation to the city. Their contribution is gonna help us create an incredible park. I mean, it will be one of a kind on the west side of town.
 It's going to be enjoyed by everybody for generations to come. That's always wonderful to see. It's going to help us preserve our green space, our national beauty, and everybody. I just appreciate everybody that's worked on this park for many years. I'm proud to see it come to reality. It's a great addition to the city. Thank you all. Terrence, please call the roll. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Yes.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number five, the Northern History Zone had prompted Scroggins' zoning petition, RZN 20-20.
 0006 located at 1278 west hendrick street for approximately 0.50 acres from rsf8 residential single-family eight years breaker to rsf18 residential single-family 18 years break kit
 Feat. ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single-family, 18 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner? Yes, Mayor. I think Council is very familiar with this part. Half-acre parcel is located about a block west of Garland on the north side of Hendricks. It's occupied by a small deteriorated house presently. The...
 surrounding zoning is RSF4 with the exception of RSF12 on the lot immediately to the west and RSF18 across Hendricks to the south, which has been recently approved by city council.
 uh plans it's designated a residential neighborhood area in the 2040 comprehensive plan infield score as we discussed previously is seven uh the plan recommends uh increasing density where it's appropriate um i mentioned the uh council had has considered this parcel a couple times in the past year actually rezoned at rsf eight a little over a year ago
 Issues are unimproved streetscape, meaning it's got a narrow asphalt road with open drainage and no sidewalks. But with Planning Commission and staff do recommend approval of this particular request. We think is consistent with the comprehensive plan and it is also consistent with the recently approved RSF 18 across the street.
 i'd be happy to answer any questions uh mr bill fugate is the uh applicant i believe he's uh online okay would you like to speak with the couch would the applicant like to speak to the council i don't see mr fugate okay all right then what questions does the council have for garnet okay let's take some public comment then
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into three minutes and two-minute segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic, which is the rezoning. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to speak to the council person? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wish of the council? This is yours. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 I'd like to just make a comment.
 You know, we've heard, we know quite a bit of information about this property. We've heard from residents many, many, many times. And just because they're not speaking tonight, I don't think should be an indication that they're largely in opposition to this. I think there was one person that sent in an email that pretty much demonstrated the frustration from the neighbors. So I just want to make sure that we...
 we remember how much opposition there has been for development in this neighborhood, especially with this particular piece of property. I would like to agree with that. Years we've been working with this neighborhood, and again the letter expressed the frustration, and these neighbors are very frustrated. It's like they're being hit again and again and again.
 Of course, if you're a property owner, I guess that's what you need to do to get where you need to go. But I will certainly support the neighbors on this again, as I always have. This is a neighborhood that I think is worth the respect of some preservation because it is slowly being chipped away. And that chips away the heritage of a middle-class neighborhood that
 really needs to be protected. Okay, anybody else? Okay. Well, we're on the first reading. This is an ordinance. I'm a little concerned that the applicant is not here to talk about the project. So what do you all think? Do you want to hold it or do you want to go on? I would like to hold it. I'd like to hear from the applicant. I really would. I'd like to hear from the neighborhood. I would too.
 I would too. So why don't we just hold it right here for two weeks? Sounds good. Okay. Okay. All right. Let's go on to number six. In order to approve vacation 20-00001 for property located south of 2011 West Foxglove Drive to vacate portions of a general utility and access easements. Tiff.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following inscribed portions of general utility access easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby vacates the portions of general utility easements and access easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 And section three, that this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developer's expense. Okay, Garnt. Yes, this is a commercial part of a commercial planned zoning district. It is between Shallow Drive and Fox Club Drive north of Moore Lane.
 the planning commission recently approved a large-scale development for an auto automobile dealership on this parcel that makes the utilities month which is located here in the access drive obsolete the access actually moves uh to the south of off of fox club so no uh no use was identified for these easements and plenty commission and staff recommended approval
 happy to answer any questions what questions okay let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration uh broken into three and two minute segments don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and who would like to address us first
 Okay, right back to the council. This is an ordinance. We're on the first reading. What's the wishes to council or what discussion do you want to have? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Care to please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay.
 Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 20-001 for property located south of 2011 West Foxglove Drive to vacate portions of a general utility and access easements. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Caravans, please call the roll. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. An ordinance to approve VIC-2001 for property located south of 2011 West Foxglove Drive to vacate portions of a general utility and access easements.
 Okay, what comments do we have from the council? All right care which please call the roll Smith yes good. Terrence. Yes Marsh. Yes Kenyon yes, Eddie. Yes Scroggins yes, but yes Yes, thank you all let's move along to number seven. I
 in order to wait for a competitive bidding and to approve a cost share agreement with specialized real estate group incorporated as agent from markham race residential owner else llc for construction of trail improvements along markham road
 with a refund for an amount not to exceed $68,289 to be paid by the City of Federal for the cost and the improvements that exceed the rough portionality of the impact of the development and to approve project contingency in the amount of $6,828.90. Kip? Whereas Markham Residential Owner LLC is developing a subdivision at the west end of West Markham Road.
 And whereas in January of 2020, the Planning Commission approved the preliminary plan for Markham Hill Subdivision Phase 1, with a condition of approval requiring the developer to pay a fee in lieu for the construction of a shared multi-use trail on West Markham Road's southern right-of-way.
 and whereas the city proposes to enter into an agreement for the developer to construct a section of 10 foot wide concrete trail with a refund from the city in the amount of 68 289 which represents the estimated cost of the improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the developer's impact
 And whereas the recently adopted active transportation plan shows a shared use paved trail to be constructed along the south side of West Markham Road from Razorback Road west to I-49. And whereas allowing the developer to utilize its own contractors for the construction of a portion of the trail will allow the city to achieve significant savings. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical
 and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with Specialized Real Estate Group, Inc., as agent for Markham Residential Owner, LLC, for the installation of a 10-foot-wide concrete sidewalk along the south side of Markham Road with a refund in the amount not to exceed $68,289 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development
 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $6,828.90. Mayor. Yes. Good evening, Mayor, Council. I'm sharing my screen here. I believe you'll be able to see a map.
 Just kind of wanted to go over what this connection will become. So from the Razorback Greenway we have the Maple Street cycle track project that we hope to begin construction in early 2021 so that's coming and then we have an existing 10 foot wide trail along Razorback Road currently around the stadium, and then there's a
 The master plan has recently been adopted to have a trail along Markham, which comes through this particular project. And as Mr. Williams illustrated all the details of the agreement to do the cost share, that really the time to build that trail is when the development is occurring today.
 It's a much better way than trying to come back later. Also, there's utilities that'll be placed underneath this particular trail. So they're already gonna be disturbing the area and they're able to place back a trail. And then on in the future, as we look at connecting west, there's potential to continue the trail over to Interstate 49, where we'll be looking at a way of crossing Interstate 49, which will tie into Shiloh Trail and the new Centennial Park.
 so it really has a potential for great connectivity for our city and the west side i do have another picture of just the detail of what it's going to look like will be separated by trees in the green space and lighting again this is a 10-foot concrete trail and so we just look for opportunities like this to get the trail included with the development and that's what this kosher is about i'd be happy to answer any questions what questions do we have on this
 Matt, I was wondering, is this, okay, if we didn't do the cost share, since it is the condition that they agreed upon to have this at their expense, if we didn't, I'm trying to figure out just by the $68,289, because it was a condition that the developers agreed to do anyway, right? Not really. It didn't meet the rough proportionality of the impact of this development.
 to justify construction of this much of an infrastructure. They wouldn't be required to build that much. So that's where the cost share comes in
 to fund the rest of it, the 68,000. Now 58,000 of this is coming from a sidewalk that they got credit for that was gonna be along South Sang Avenue. So a good portion of it is gonna be covered by the developer already and then the 68,000 is our portion. The actual trail construction is 127,000 which is a good value for this amount of trail that we feel like. Thank you. One of the questions to them, council.
 okay let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak five minute duration uh three and two minute segments don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address uh and who would like to be first okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first three hour what discussion would you like to have on
 i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading carol would you please call the roll smith yes guitarist yes marsh yes kenyon yes eddie yes scroggen yes bunch yes turk yes
 An ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost-share agreement with Specialized Real Estate Group Incorporated as agent for Markham Residential Owner LLC for the construction of trail improvements along Markham Road with a refund in the amount not to exceed $68,289 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for the cost of the improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development
 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $6,828.90. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Second. Okay, we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Pinion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. An ordinance to waive conformal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Specialized Real Estate Group Incorporated as agent for Markham Residential Owner, LLC...
 for the construction of trail improvements along Markham Road with a refund in the amount not to exceed $68,289 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for the cost of the improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $6,828.90. Okay any final comments from the council? Yes I'd like to make a comment.
 I want to thank Matt Mihailovich for attending our Ward 4 meeting a couple of weeks ago and providing a lot of information to the residents that are close by. So that was extremely helpful because this is a bit complicated about how this has transpired and a cost-sharing deal when most of the residents in the area are really opposed to this development.
 But they understand that a nice big trail is going to be built, and also the utilities are going to be tucked in underneath that trail. And so I don't think that they are opposing this cost share. But I did want to just clarify some of the concerns the neighbors had and where many of, not all of them, but many of their perspectives are. And so I will be voting in favor of this cost share arrangement. Thank you.
 Thank you. Anybody else? I just want to say thank you to Teresa for bringing that information to us and that'll help my decision because I'm wanting to support the neighbors. So thanks Teresa and Kyle. I'm sure you both were there to receive the feedback. Anybody else? Okay. Caravans, please call the line. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turke? Yes. Okay thank you all. Number eight an ordinance to amend 130.01 adoption of state criminal code of the federal code to include a hate crime component within the city prosecutions of certain state criminal misdemeanors. Kitt?
 Whereas the vast majority of states recognize that when certain crimes are committed to hurt or terrorize persons because of their race, religion, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, or national origin, such especially reprehensible and unacceptable conduct should be properly identified and criminally punished as hate crimes.
 And whereas the legislature has enacted ACA 16-123-106, hate offenses, to authorize a civil action for intimidation, harassment, violence, or vandalism directed at a victim because of racial, religious, or ethnic animosity, but such victims deserve further protection.
 And whereas Arkansas is one of the last states in our nation which ignores the intentionally cruel and terrorizing nature of these hate crimes by failing to label them as hate crimes or criminally punish the perpetrators for these hate crimes. And whereas the city of Fayetteville wishes to do everything legally possible to shine the light on those who commit such hate crimes. And whereas the city council is authorized and empowered to prohibit
 and punish any act, matter, or thing which the laws of this state make a misdemeanor, which is Arkansas Code Annotated 14-55-501, and whereas, quote, the penalties fixed by the city must fall within the state minimums and maximums, which is Ford v. City of Hot Springs, 1988 case,
 And whereas a city ordinance based upon state law making an act a misdemeanor must have the exact same punishment provision as a state criminal law and may neither exceed Nor allow less severe penalties than are prescribed for similar offenses against the state laws and that's arkansas code annotated 1455 502 and whereas when a criminal commits acts in such a manner as to be guilty of the state misdemeanor
 and commit such criminal conduct with the intention to hurt or terrorize the victim or others because of their race, religion, gender, gender identity, national origin, sexual orientation, or disability, the city prosecutor should be able to present evidence of such hate crime intention to the court or jury. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are hereby amends Article 1, Section 130.01, Adoption of State Criminal Code by repealing it in its entirety and enacting replacement Article 1, Section 130.01 as follows.
 Section 130.01, adoption by reference of appropriate state criminal misdemeanor statutes as violations of the Fayetteville Code with the authorization for the Fayetteville City Prosecutor to also prove a hate crime element for such violation. Subsection A, this section shall be called the Hate Crime Recognition as Deterrence Code.
 Section B, the Fayetteville, the City of Fayetteville hereby adopts by reference the Arkansas State Criminal Code for the following misdemeanors found within that code and determines that any person who would be guilty of a misdemeanor pursuant to one of the below listed crimes.
 and also commit such criminal conduct with the intention or purpose to hurt, intimidate, or terrorize the victim or others because of their actual or perceived race, religion, gender, gender identity, national origin, sexual identity, or disability would be guilty of violating this hate crime recognition as a turns code and subject to the exact penalties prescribed for the misdemeanors pursuant to state law.
 Those misdemeanor cases are battery in the second degree, assault in the second degree, assault in the third degree, coercion, terroristic threatening, arson, criminal mischief in the first degree, criminal mischief in the second degree, filing false report with law enforcement agency, disorderly conduct, harassment, and misdemeanor.
 harassing communication committing a false communication of a false alarm threatening a fire or bombing cyber bullying and stalking in the third degree this adoption by reference of the above listed sections of the arkansas criminal code shall also include any and all future amendments to those identified sections relating to misdemeanors and punishments therefore
 subsection c the city prosecutor shall report annually during the first city council meeting in may of the number of suspects that the city prosecutor has prosecuted under this hate crimes recognition as deterrence code and the number of guilty verdicts guilty or no contest pleas obtained from the previous annual period ending march 31st severability subsection d
 Any word, phrase, clause, sentence, item, paragraph, section, or title of this ordinance or of the hate crimes recognition of deterrence code is declared and adjudged to be illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional. If that happens, then such declaration or adjudication shall not affect the remaining portions of the ordinance or code, which shall remain in full force and effect until
 as if the portion so declared or judged illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional was not originally part of the ordinances or code. This was originally requested by Councilmember Turkmayer. Okay. Theresa, what would you want to add?
 Thank you so much, Kit, for laying all of those provisions out and also drafting this proposed ordinance. Arkansas is really only one of three states remaining that does not have a state hate crime ordinance. Georgia actually just passed one in June of this year. The other two are South Carolina and Wyoming. But we can do
 We can try and do as much as we can here in our local city. This ordinance is very modest, extremely modest, because we are limited by state law here.
 What would be ideal would be for the governor to actually initiate legislation to form a state, a broad state hate crime bill. But in the absence of that, I think it would be very important for Fayetteville to follow Littlerock's lead and draft a hate crime ordinance that protects our citizens. I think there was a very recent example last weekend of some of that
 kind of targeted against a group that occurred very that occurred here in Fayetteville. So this ordinance would add a bit more of a punch and consideration to the prosecuting attorney's tool toolkit if a crime a misdemeanor had been committed and they could use that information as a hate crime if that were the case. So
 So I hope that we will think long and hard about this and consider this for what its intention is. But again, it's very modest because we are limited by state law and we cannot impose fines or any additional penalties that are above state law. So again, thank you, Kit, for laying this out so nicely. Okay. What questions do we have from the council? Mayor, I have a question. Sure. Sure.
 I have a couple of technical questions that I want to ask that were relayed to me from a local lawyer. They're just technical questions. I definitely support the intent, and I'm appreciative that this is brought forward. Of course, that was Councilmember Smith's election campaign that was targeted this weekend. Less than a month ago, we had white supremacist graffiti put on a building on Martin Luther King Street.
 in South Fayetteville, and it's not just in Fayetteville. Council candidates in Springdale right now are subject to these kinds of hate messages every week and have been since the beginning of election season. So I do agree this is very important legislation. So the technical questions, there are just two questions.
 and hope the city attorney might shed some light on this. I understand that if someone is charged and convicted of hate crime under the statute that they're, and then they were to commit a second offense during,
 what was called a look back period. The prosecutor has the option of charging that as a felony, I think under state law. Does this legislation address what might happen if there's a second offense during that look back period, or is it relevant? I don't think it does. The state law does limit us to misdemeanors only. It doesn't allow us to charge felonies
 So what this law would do, and in the proper case where there's plenty of evidence that in fact, a hate crime has been committed with the intent to intimidate or harass or terrorize, then the city prosecutor has the option. He can always certainly just use state law and prove the state crime, whether it be harassment or stalking or whatever. But if he has good evidence that this was done for a prejudicial reason,
 then he can assume that new burden to prove that element in order to make sure that the judge knows
 not only that the basic crime was committed, but that it was created or committed in order to terrorize a group. And I think that would affect the potential sentence, even though we can't have a range higher than what the state law allows. But I think it provides good information to the judge when he's considering what would be the proper sentence within the range allowed by law.
 However, I don't think that we can go all the way to a felony level. That's going to have to be something that would be done by the state prosecutor. I understood. Thank you. The second question was about burden of proof, which you just mentioned, Kit. And the question was, would these new penalties be bifurcated from the existing existing penalties and where they have the same burden of proof?
 Yes, the burden of proof in a criminal case does not change. It's always beyond a reasonable doubt. And so this would be a time where we might not see a lot of prosecutions on this because the city prosecutor would have to have some pretty strong evidence. And of course, there's all kinds of rights for defendants. Their rights remain silent so that if they don't have good evidence that the crime was committed wrong,
 uh with an especially reprehensible act unacceptable conduct of trying to terrorize uh a person because of their race or religion or other sort of disability
 then the prosecutor will probably just go and convict him of battery or stalking or whatever it would be. So it would be a fairly rare case, hopefully not too rare, but it would be a fairly rare case where there would be enough evidence that the city prosecutor would believe that he has enough evidence to go ahead and charge it under the hate crime. The downside for the prosecutor is that,
 If he doesn't have enough evidence to convince the judge that it was done for an intent to terrorize one of these protected groups, then the entire charge would be lost. So it's not going to be bifurcated where this could be something that it must be added on later. It actually part of the whole case. And so the prosecutor has to weigh his evidence and make sure that what he's doing is probably has a good chance to succeed if he does charge this hate crime element.
 I think I followed your answer, Kit. So I have one follow-up question based on the last sentence you said. Would this be stronger if we were to bifurcate it so that the hate crime piece could be added on to the base crime? I just don't know if we could do that. There are a lot of criminal procedural rules, and there is some bifurcation when you get up into the higher levels of crimes and where the jury is sentencing.
 But I think for misdemeanors, I don't think we could probably bifurcate it and just add it on later. I think it's going to have to be really part of the case in chief, which means that the prosecutors have to be very careful when they do that. But I do think it's worth attempting this. We can always look and see whether or not this has been successful or not and look at other potential options in the future if it has not been successful. Thank you.
 But I think that we're lucky to have a city prosecutor like Brian Thomas, who's had 10 years plus of experience, really knows what to do and has been very effective as a trial attorney prosecuting people. So I really trust in his judgment. And so I think this is probably really the best thing we can do at this point in time. If it has big problems and we can go back and look at it again.
 But at this point, I would not try to bifurcate that because I don't know if that's actually going to be permissible under the law. Okay. Thank you. What other questions do we have? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five-minute duration, broken into three- and two-minute segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic.
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name. And I would like the, and also citizen in the policy that citizens of the city are to speak first. So who would like to address us on this? Mayor, I have a call on yes, on yes. I'm sorry if I'm mispronouncing. Okay, go ahead. That's fine. I'm not, my address is outside of Fayetteville. Well, if you would not mind, then we have one ahead of you.
 yes ma'am sarah moore hello can you hear me please speak a little bit louder sarah okay can you hear me now yes okay i'll stay really close to the computer uh my name is sarah moore i'm in say it will arkansas 400 west patricia um this was a really hard one for me i understand i understand the intent behind it i understand that there have been some things in our community that have been
 posted on buildings and has not been done. And there's been divisive rhetoric out there that has been very unsettling in our community.
 But I would just caution for us to slow down and to have a community conversation. I've been doing criminal justice work as a community member for the last several years, and I've learned a lot. I think it's important that we need to get all the stakeholders in our community together to really understand what the unintended consequences could be from giving prosecutors additional enhancements.
 we over incarcerate and in the state of Arkansas, we are the number four incarcerator in the nation, in a nation that over incarcerates against the entire world. And so I really caution
 making changes to laws to further be punitive. I understand the intent behind them. However, I would really say that having a conversation with key justice system holders, attorneys, public defenders, prosecutors, talking to criminal justice advocates, talking to our black and brown community, talking to our LGBTQ communities together to come up with a solution because this really becomes reactive.
 And what I really would want to do is I'd like to talk about how we're proactive. What are the steps that we can be talking about in our community that could cause these types of actions or cause harm to not come to these valuable, important people who are precious in our community? And so I would just say tonight to table this.
 to step away from it, to have some more community discussion, maybe set up a special meeting where we again, bring all those folks to the table, because I think that these kinds of pieces of legislation can have unintended consequences. And I want us to really understand that. But ultimately what I really love is for there to be a bigger conversation within our community about how can we come together and really be welcoming to all members of our community, thank you.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address? David Freeman. Okay, go ahead. Hey, thank you for hearing my comment. My name is David Freeman. I'm in Fayetteville as well. I'm curious what this item actually does to better support our Fayetteville community in practice. If I heard Kit correctly talking about how
 How the burden of proof in this will make it very difficult for anything to really result and and and my my my perspective is that right a punitive kind of structure of law enforcement isn't the right answer either in the first place, but I want to echo Sarah Moore's comment regarding like whether we're proactive about the issues going on in our community or reactive against
 and seeing this issue arise in this particular city council meeting, where we're talking about a police station rezoning later on whatever the city council does decide, I hope that you understand that this will not solve the issue. Our law enforcement culture predominantly responds to issues by getting rid of people without getting rid of the underlying issue and voting to pass this issue regarding hate crimes,
 if it's not paired with actually addressing some of these, what I consider like really rotten structures that we're operating under as a city, I don't think that'll really do much for us. So this is just an invitation for us to do what we do with this issue and then take steps and leaps forward from there and not at all stop here. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address?
 Now it's the turn of the visitor from out of town. If you don't mind pronouncing your name for me. Akau? Yes, ma'am. Akau Anya. Go ahead. Yes. I really do think that this is a good step for Fayetteville to take this. Let's think about the culture, not just at Fayetteville, but just nationwide, in fact. The anti-lynching bill was just signed this year, and it wasn't even unanimous.
 that's just something to think about uh now of course it's not going to change things overnight it's it's going to be just a step like there are our crime there are laws against robbing stores but people who are poor still may still do it but the fact that it's against the law makes it a little bit more of a deterrent to do it and uh the hate having to be proven i would only hope that the benefit of the doubt is given to the victim because uh
 uh, it's difficult to prove that kind of thing. In fact, even a few years ago, uh, not in, not in this area, but when, uh, when the, there was a Charleston shooting, uh, it was called, uh, uh, an attack on Christianity, but it was clearly an attack on black people. And, um, I think that there is a culture that, uh, believes that, that wants to believe racism doesn't exist and gets offended when they hear that it does. But, um, I think
 As a person of the minority party, when people shout catcalls or racial or homophobic slurs or anything like that, we don't know what's going to happen next. To them, it may just be some people having fun. They could be like some valedictorians out on a joyride. They just think that it's a fun time. We don't know that things aren't going to get much worse very quickly. And if there was just something that...
 The bill would add a little something. Would it solve the problems? No. But I think it would be a very good thing to have in place. You just have to think about the larger picture. Fayetteville is a great area. It's a great place to live, and it's doing a lot of things the right way. And the fact that even having this conversation before the state of Arkansas is showing its progressive nature, I really do think that it would be a great thing if it was passed.
 I give up the rest of my time. All right, thank you. Who else? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance that's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? It looks like we have a great start, but there's definitely some technical questions that we need to move through. Somebody mentioned another meeting. Would that be ordinance review or what would be best for that?
 I think that it would be appropriate to go to ordinance review so we could have some more public discussion and get directly to the improvement of what we have. I certainly would agree to that. Okay. Do I need to make a motion for that?
 No, I don't think so. I think the chair can just say that they will. Yeah, you can just leave it on this reading. And if the chair of the ordinance review wants to take it up, then he certainly can. I think I would ask, as chair of the ordinance review committee, are there particular goals that we're looking to accomplish? Aside from Council Member Petty's questions, which I think were answered, I'm not entirely sure I understand what...
 what changes or tweaks we're looking for here. Does Council Member Petty feel that all of his legal questions were answered? I do. I also heard Kit express, it may be possible to bifurcate these in the future and that we should keep an eye on it. So with regards to that question, it didn't seem conclusive
 But personally, in listening to the comments and reading the legislation very carefully, I feel that this is very targeted legislation. And with admittedly, as the attorney described, it's probably going to have a relatively limited. So I still think it's important to do that.
 I'm certainly willing myself personally to defer to the council's wishes if the council thinks that this needs a little bit more study. But I've looked at this pretty closely I think for myself and feel that this is an appropriate ordinance. I'd like to speak up. Oh sorry Sarah you want to go ahead?
 Now, I was just going to say that, you know, I think maybe it could use just a little more polish, but it's really headed in the right direction, and...
 you know, there have been so many things in, you know, that like the anti-lynching law that one of our public comment was talking about that we didn't even have a few years ago. And, and I know there are, there are laws against stalking now that we didn't have 20 years ago and, and, you know, just things like that. So I think we could polish this a little bit, but I'm really in favor of it. I think it's heading in the right direction here. So
 I'll defer to whatever the other council members are wanting to do on this. Thank you. Sorry to interrupt you, Theresa.
 I just wanted to kind of respond to some of the questions or some of the comments the public had. You know, I've had this kit and I've been working on this for several months. We were just trying to I was just trying to find a time where our schedule wasn't so jam packed with other items before I brought it forward. It's just a coincidence that the
 The graffiti that was on Councilmember Smith's campaign sign happened right now, but it's Little Rock passed something I believe it was in in June and so
 We've been getting I've been back and forth trying to figure out how to strengthen this as much as possible. And I believe that this is as strong as we can make this ordinance. As I said, it's very modest. It's extremely limited, but we're kind of preempted by state law and if if
 The Council wants to review this. The Ordinance Committee wants to review this some more. Feel free to do so. But I certainly have really tried to push to make this law or this ordinance as strong as legally possible. Well, since I've been mentioned a couple of times, I'd like to just kind of share what I'm thinking on this because I do wholeheartedly support the intent of this. I think that...
 eliminating bias-based offenses from our city and our society is a worthy effort. I do have some concerns and I've got some additional homework that I want to do. So I'm not sure that it needs to go to ordinance review. If there's something specific that we're wanting to look at, I'm happy to do that. But
 Generally, I want to share some of the homework research that I'm looking to do and maybe that will elicit some more conversation in the coming weeks. One of my biggest concerns is that it is modest by restriction of the state preemption. I'm a little concerned about how effective it will be.
 I generally prefer to prohibit these kinds of offenses rather than just seek retribution. And I wholeheartedly understand the desire for harsher penalties, but we don't really even get that out of this. So I want to understand better the sentencing phases of these kinds of cases so I have a better understanding of what impact this is actually having.
 I'm a little concerned by Kits' warning that we may not be able to separate this from the underlying charges because I'm afraid that monitoring it for big problems and coming back to fix it later means that we miss a battery or a stalking or an arson conviction because we attempted to seek this and lost the underlying conviction. That would be a problem to me.
 I'm uncertain of whether or not there's that laws like this have actually provided deterrence across the country. And so I want to want to look into some study on that. And of course, the concerns about how this could contribute to over incarceration or even be.
 I think that's something that we've turned around and used maybe disproportionately on our racial indigenous and people of color in our community. Those are concerns I want to look into and kind of see what's happened in other places that have adopted these. And then a question that I wonder if we could maybe get some staff feedback on is what sort of training would our police officers need in order to help
 help the prosecutors formulate cases that would provide the evidence they need. So I want to make sure that we've got all of the support that would be needed to execute this appropriately. So that's some of what I'll be thinking about in the next two weeks, and I hope that...
 uh if there's if there's polish on this that somebody can point to we can certainly take it up in ordinance review otherwise i hope that we'll have amendments proposed here and that we can kind of tackle this one as a whole group i think this is a big enough community issue that that we maybe all need to be involved thank you teresa for bringing this up for discussion what discussion
 I would definitely like to hold this here this week, but I want to thank Councilmember Turk for her work and Kit for their work on it so far. And I feel like we need to start somewhere. And I feel like in the heart of what is happening.
 The intention here is absolutely what the people of Fayetteville would want. Fayetteville is an inclusive, welcoming city, and we do not tolerate people who do not
 welcome and are not inclusive of all people and all ideas. And so I think that this embodies the spirit of who the people of Fayetteville are. And so for that reason, I'll support it. Maybe does it need a little bit of work here and there?
 It's possible, but there's always an opportunity to amend. And so I'm definitely ready to support it as soon as everyone else is ready. And I'm happy to give everyone time to get there, but I think it's overall great. And it sounds like a lot of work has already been done on it. Okay, so do I understand that the council wants to hold it here for two weeks?
 I think that would be a good thing. OK, OK, well we'll just leave it right here. Alright, let's move along to number 9. An ordinance to accept a deed to three downtown off street parking lots to approve a final report of the off Street parking development district. Number one of Federal Arkansas to accept all revenues and money remaining within the district's possession and to dissolve this history kit.
 Whereas upon the petition from owners of a majority and assessed value of property in the off-street parking development district number one of Fayetteville, Arkansas, to establish such district, the Fayetteville Board of Directors passed Ordinance Number 2292 on December 7, 1976, and established said district.
 And whereas the district through its board of directors use revenue from property owners to successfully build sufficient off-street parking to rejuvenate the downtown area for improved commerce, office, and residential uses. And whereas the board of the off-street parking development district has successfully paid all of the bonds used to acquire and develop off-street parking and has not needed any further assessments for over 10 years.
 and whereas the board has recently completed renovations and improvements to its two remaining parking lots and has now decided it should now dissolve the district convey the three parking lots to the city and pay to the city all remaining money it has accumulated from parking revenues over the years and whereas when the city council approves the report the commissioner of the off street uh
 Parking Development District Number 1 of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas shall stand discharged from their duties according to state law. And whereas the commissioners have all properly signed the deed conveying their three parking lots to be property of the city. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby accepts and approves the report of the Off-Street Parking Development District No. 1 of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, accepts full payment of all remaining revenue from the district, and accepts the deed conveying the three remaining off-street parking lots to the City of Fayetteville. And Mayor Jordan is authorized to also sign this deed.
 Section 2, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arksaw hereby thanks Chairman Greg Lee, Commissioners Evelyn Brooks, Chris Barbenek,
 Barry Boo, probably that wrong, sorry, George Niblock Jr. and Don Strostner for their service on the off-street parking development district number one of the city of Fayetteville and hereby discharges the chair and all commissioners from any and all further duties related to the district and dissolves the district as of the date of this ordinance when it is approved and remaining money and assets have been given to the city.
 This is good news for the city. It was good news back in 1976 when this district was formed. Because at that point in time, the square in the downtown area was suffering a little bit. And a lot of the problems was that there was insufficient parking for the citizens to come and go to the banks and to the shops and to the restaurants.
 And so the parking district was formed, they collected money from the property owners and they built all these parking lots. And now all the parking lots have been paid off. They've got them looking in very good shape and they would like to dissolve the district. And as a part of that, not only do we receive the three parking lots, but receive about $700,000 in cash that they have accumulated through the years and are now going to return to the city.
 So it's been a very good thing for the city. It lasted a long time, but I think it's time at this point to dissolve the district. And I'm certainly ready to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Kit on this? All right. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. I have a five-minute duration and three and two-minute segments.
 i do not engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first who would like to be first okay i'm going to bring it back to the city council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what's the wishes of the council we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion in a second to go to the second week karen would you please call the road
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. In order to accept a deed to the three downtown off-street parking lots to approve the final report of the off-street parking development district number one with Fayetteville Arkansas
 to accept all revenues and money remaining within the district's possession, and to dissolve this district. I should note that Justin has worked hard on this also as our parking manager, and I don't know if he has any comments. I don't even know if he's online, but we couldn't have got this all wrapped up without his hard work. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 I don't care which police call as well. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. An ordinance to accept a deed to the three downtown off-street parking lots to approve the final report of the off-street parking development district number one of Fayetteville,
 to accept all revenues and money remaining within the district's possession and to dissolve this district any final comments from council
 I have one. I just think we ought to applaud the people that have managed this for such a long time and the fact that they're donating $700,000. I mean, that's quite a bit of money. And so I'm sure it's been a number of years that they worked on this and just to thank them for their service to the city.
 Thank you, Teresa. I couldn't have said it better. They've done a tremendous job managing this over the years. I also want to take a few moments to thank Kit Williams, who's worked on this for years, and Justin, who's worked on it for a while, too. They've done great work, and I just want to thank everybody. Anybody else? Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith?
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, number 10. An ordinance rezoning that property inscribed rezoning petition RZN 20-000011
 Located northeast of Dean Street and Porter Road for approximately 11.60 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to P1 Institution. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, are hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA Residential Agricultural to P1 Institutional, Section 2. And to City Council of the City of Fayetteville, are hereby amends the official zoning map for the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor. Let me get my...
 Slide from the beginning. Let's see if I can share it. Here we go. Okay. This reasoning is to facilitate the construction of a police station, a fire station that were approved in the 2019 bond issue by the voters. The parcel was acquired from the University Research Center
 It is located at Porter Road and Dean Street on the northeast corner. The surrounding zoning is primarily residential agriculture to the northeast and west. It's multifamily residential across Dean Street. And recently, Council approved a small parcel of community services across the street to the west.
 adopted plans that relate to this rezoning request it's designated as a civic institutional area in the 2040 plan and this was specifically done in anticipation of these facilities being constructed the infield score is four to six uh issues that have been debated over the summer uh is appropriate setbacks uh for these the police headquarters
 and location of parking. Police headquarters have special security standards and safety for the public. Also, this facility is scheduled for construction in the first phase of the bond issue. It is on schedule. We are on schedule for that construction.
 But the schedule is tight. And this is the first step, entitlements is the first step of the development review process. And we need to get that done in order to take the next steps. And the next steps are, as you can see, zoning is first step. I might add that
 Fayetteville has a long standing tradition to follow all the process and all the requirements for public buildings city buildings as it does require for private buildings this is both fair and it produces a better outcome so entitlement is granted first with zoning
 And then we switch to site planning, which is called large scale development, where the location of the building is placed and parking and egress and ingress and retention ponds, lots of impervious surfacing is planned for this larger building. So all that has to be planned with the site planning process which goes to the Planning Commission. There is a public hearing at the Planning Commission
 And then when that's accomplished, we would go to the grading permit. We'll then have the information to know how the site needs to be graded. And finally, and perhaps the most important, the building permit, which applies the International Building Code to make sure that the buildings are constructed appropriately. So it's been discussed for over the summer.
 Plenty of commission staff do recommend approval of the P1 zoning district. We think as you considered when you approved the fire station, the P1 district works for the fire station's orientation and setbacks and access. It also works for the police headquarters. There are concerns about how these important streets are addressed.
 So we do have an alternative for your consideration. You could approve the P1 zoning for the areas needed for the police headquarters and fire station and retain the RA zoning. The RA zoning is its present zoning. It is kind of considered our holding zone for the remainder of the site until more detailed planning for the remainder of the site is completed.
 and I can show you what the exhibit A would look like if you did that. The fire station of course is proposed to be constructed at this location. The police station is the northern and parking is to the north. There's been a discussion about making sure that we don't put large parking lot between
 the building and the street because we want to have a community building that has a friendly posture to both streets. So we're working on a concept that does that and perhaps does a linear parkway on the Porter side
 Council members have discussed about the possibility of public plaza and transit hub on the corner. And then we have additional land that might include additional public or private buildings. And for that, until the detailed planning is completed, we could just retain the RA zoning. So we advanced that as an alternative for your consideration.
 and I'd be happy to answer any questions. I know that Police Chief Reynolds and Fire Chief Hardin are here tonight and also wanted to talk to you, but I'd be happy to answer any questions you have for me at this point. Well, let's let, yeah, Chief is gonna go next. Yes, Chief, both Chiefs together have 10 minutes together, so.
 you are the applicant so okay thank you garner thank you mayor thank you council once again i'll be real brief with the security needs so on may 26 uh presentation of our conceptual designs of both the joint police and fire department site along with the street and sidewalk improvements were presented to the council members at the agenda session
 Some of the council members raised some questions and concerns after that presentation. On July 24th, we had a stakeholder meeting with representatives from council, city staff, police, fire, and also our community that got together. During that workshop, the stakeholders agreed to several design premises. One of the design premises that I think we all agreed to was officer safety.
 With the recent attacks that have not only harmed officers but killed officers at their own facilities, I'm confident that we can all agree that community safety is paramount importance with this project. A secured staff parking lot and building setback distances are critical features that are discussed during that workshop.
 And standoff distances certainly help with blast impacts. Something similar to like what we saw with the Oklahoma City bombing back in 1995. More recently, vehicle assaults have come commonplace. Back in June, we had a vehicle assault of a Springfield, Missouri police officer where he was hit right outside of his headquarters building and he was paralyzed as a result of that attack.
 As you might recall at our stakeholder meeting, I've been advocating for a standoff distance of a minimum of 50 feet, which is consistent with a blast industry standards. The setback in combination with hardening techniques such as planters,
 landscaping walls, stairs, trees, benches, bike racks, and flag poles in combination with the crime prevention through environmental design principles will help provide a visitor friendly design that also incorporates safety as well.
 So the bottom line for me is if I can't protect my officers, I can't protect our community. And so as your police chief, the 50-foot setback is critical to ensure our facilities and resources are safeguarded. So tonight I'm respectfully requesting that the council members support the move for P1 rezoning on this property. Just thank you, and I'll introduce Chief Harden.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. The P1 zoning is what we brought to you for our last building, and this building is identical to that building. The reason for the P1 zoning or that it is needed is because of the length of the fire truck. Each morning, the guys will pull the...
 unit out and they'll check the oil and go through the trucks real thoroughly. And our shortest truck is about almost 40 foot and the longest truck is almost 60 foot. So this length of 50 foot setback for the apron is very important. And like I said, it's identical to the station that we had before you a couple weeks ago. So I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe our architects are here as well.
 Okay. Right, Mayor, we have Wade and the architects, but we will just entertain questions for any of the team. Okay, what questions do we have in the council? Mayor, I have a question just to kind of clarify procedurally, I know you said at agenda session that we were gonna confine it to the zoning and not the specifics of the development, which is usually the way we handle these.
 But we're in the kind of awkward position tonight of being the applicants. And to my knowledge, we've not yet chosen a final design. So I'm just trying to understand kind of where we are. Maybe Garner can help with this as far as I really like the Exhibit A that kind of reserves space for other future uses. But until we've picked a final design, how do we know where those future uses might end up?
 Yes, good question Council Member Smith. The approval of large-scale development is the Planning Commission. Of course it does provide a call up if there is a desire for Council to exercise its oversight. But the question there is does it meet the requirements
 Does it meet all the city's requirements for approval? So one issue that needs to be resolved with the zoning is the setbacks. And because if the police department's setbacks aren't maintained
 we wouldn't want to proceed with spending the money for engineering and planning to create the large-scale development. So we need an answer for that to take the next step, but it certainly doesn't take Mayor and Council out of the loop. Okay, I guess what I'm kind of scratching my head about is your Exhibit A showed the sort of reserves future use down on the south side.
 When we visited with staff, some of the designs had those buildings on the west side over by Porter Road. And I wasn't sure if we have we come to a conclusion on which of those plans have the residents been or
 citizens of Fayetteville had a chance to look at those designs and weigh in. Where are we in that process? Because we started this whole kind of workshop thing that we haven't, we never had our second meeting on.
 I'll interject, Council Member Smith. So what we did in visiting with each of you who chose to work with Wade and myself in the review of the rough schematics that we had at the time, we took all of your feedback and Wade then responded.
 created a score sheet more or less. And in his analysis of the comments that we heard from you all and Wade then worked with the designers. So wait at this time, if you would like to go ahead and talk about the steps in the process, but to tell you the truth, council member Smith, most of you all appreciated that at least one of the two, one of the,
 two of the drawings more than the other options. So we had a pretty much a consensus of you all who appreciated the approach that Wade then ultimately will be pursuing with the architects in further design after the rezoning is approved. So Wade, would you like to describe? Sure, yeah. The overall consensus was the layout that had the,
 the main building orientation running north on the north side of the site. And it was, we did push it over to the west side to the 50 feet. There's no longer a parking lot in front of the buildings. We've also, we're looking at the area on the southwest corner of the site designated for future amenities that may include a public plaza,
 a police or community building, transit hub, trailhead, a pathway through a tree grove that will connect the public plaza to the PD headquarters. Also include bike racks, drinking fountains, and public art. Some of the input was about community services rooms. So we have in the main headquarters a community service room that will accommodate up to 160 peoples that can be programmed for community events.
 LEED Silver certification was a major criteria. And so the building orientation is oriented to limit the east-west exposure. And that eliminates the need for sun screening, reduces the air conditioning loads, and provides good daylighting, all components needed for the certification. We work with the topography of the building. The building is oriented to take advantage of the topography
 which requires at least earthwork and least or fewer retaining walls. The officer safety was a criteria that the Chief talked about. The sound dampening was another major criteria, and so the building that houses the shooting range is planned to be partially subgrade, and then additional dampening measures will be incorporated into the design.
 stormwater management was a big factor. So we've got retention ponds and bio swells incorporated to control all the runoff per the city standards. And as far as alignment with the comprehensive plan, you know, we're developing the plan further for the elimination of the parking lot altogether at the front of the building and introduce on street parking.
 that allows us to shift the building closer to the street. So those are the components that were discussed that we have incorporated and we're still working on, and especially the street work and the street parking. And so we hope to get something to the Planning Commission sometime in November. We hope by then our drawings will be developed enough to get something more detailed on the,
 erosion control stormwater in the parking right so tonight we really are asking for the zoning approval as we requested so that Wade can continue to pursue those elements with a further fine point for
 Yeah, it was my understanding we were working on the rezoning tonight and the designing design would come later under the large scale development and the we'll be headed to the Planning Commission. Does that answer your question Councilmember Smith? I think it does. I you know we've gotten a lot of communications encouraging us to zone this industrial. I think they meant institutional.
 I'm committed to getting the zoning on this right. And I'm a little bit frustrated that it's hard to take that kind of detailed look at the zoning if we haven't already settled on our design. Now, it sounds like maybe we have, but tonight's the night that I learned of our consensus and I have had a lot of
 I can't help but feel that constituents asking for additional public comment opportunities, wondering when they would see the variety of plans that they heard about in our workshop. I can't help but feel that we have missed a few weeks of opportunities where we could have taken those actions. Instead, we are now back in another one of these situations where it is our schedule that is going to force a decision that we could have had in the past
 I would have liked to have been able to talk a little more openly if we had been talking about this all along. I understand where we are at with the bond and I imagine that we will come to a conclusion on schedule whether or not it has received public input that folks have been asking for. One of the things that we had discussed and I thought we were going to do was a large public input session.
 We did not discuss having a large public input session at this point in time because the schedule, as we have it laid out, is that we need a zoning discussion tonight and the public will have its opportunity during the planning commission meeting to look at the large-scale development. So we're going to make the major decisions before taking the public input. I really wanted that public input session. I felt like the community wanted that public input session and a lot of...
 The pushback we're getting on this project has been because of the lack of opportunities for the public to get information and share their thoughts and feelings. So I'm disappointed that we're at this point without having had that large public input session. I feel like we've repeatedly requested. Thank you. Who else? I need a clarification here. Seems like that we're not following the same rules as other people when they come in for a rezoning.
 Is it not right when we talk about rezoning, we talk about the zoning and not the design? Other people have to. I'm missing something here. Kit, can you help me out? Well, I think you are correct in that a zoning decision is not supposed to be for a particular project all by itself.
 and instead it's supposed to look at the potential uses of that particular zoning district. This is kind of a different situation in that we bought this land, you bought this land as a city council for millions of dollars to put a police station there, police headquarters and fire stations there. So everybody knows that that is gonna be the project. But I do think talking about design now is getting the cart before the horse.
 Until the administration knows what the zoning is, you really are limited on what you can design and what kind of grading you're going to have to have because different zones will require the building to be placed in different locations. And therefore, really, at this point, we should be looking at only the zoning that would be appropriate.
 I think the city has asked for institutional zoning because that's very appropriate for a police station or a fire station. And so it's up to the city council to decide whether or not they're going to agree to the institutional zoning. And I think there has been lots of discussion. What I've heard, I've not been involved in it, but just listening, there's been a lot of discussion and input on the design
 And so at this point in time, really we're down to the zoning decision though and not the design decision. Well I would like to request that further discussion this evening be on the zoning. Because that is, we enforce that on other people. We should respect that and comply as the city. Well I agree with you. Okay, I've got kind of a list of thoughts.
 I hope, well one, I talked to a lot of people today and yesterday about this. I do believe that this needs to move forward and I think P1 is correct. I think this location is correct. We need to have a meeting before this hits Planning Commission and have a large discussion.
 So if we're going to say that now is not the time to talk about design, let's talk about design between now and planning commission so that we can have things worked out so we don't have to go to planning commission and tell planning commission you have to approve this the first night it hits you. So let's try to kind of solve that. But I do plan on hopefully voting on this tonight. Okay.
 for a meter of reasons, but we need that big meeting, but we also need to move forward. And so hopefully we don't make this mistake that it gets to planning commission and you got to approve it tonight or that night. I've also had emails sent to me about just approve the zoning. Please don't listen to people. I disagree with those emails I've gotten. There are gonna be people of color that try to speak tonight and I hope we listen.
 Now, if it doesn't cover the rezone, that doesn't mean that we have to affect the decision, but I really suggest that we listen to people of color tonight and let them talk. This is the last item on the agenda. It's not too late. We have time to listen to people and then hopefully bring that discussion to the design elements between now and planning commission. But like I said, hopefully we can get this voted on tonight.
 hopefully we can have a meeting and hopefully we can listen to people of color tonight as well. Okay so I'm gonna throw in my two cents here. I you know I kind of agree with with Mark that this is you know we we usually talk about the zoning first and we try and
 distance or divorce ourselves from the project that may be going on, but this one is just a little bit different here. I'm in favor of voting tonight on the P1 zoning, and I would encourage the other council members to do that as well, but I also appreciate Sloan's comments that maybe we have
 we have an input session before this hits planning commission, because we do have some pushback and it's not directed at zoning. Typically it's directed at the entire project. Uh, and, you know, so maybe we could, you know, maybe we could divert a little bit of that and, and get, uh, get some of that kind of, uh,
 uh corralled a little bit before it hits planning commission but i'm in favor of of the p1 zoning i think we need to maintain that 50-foot setback the police chief is asking for it the fire chief is asking for it you know they have their they have good reasons for that and so i'm in support of this wholeheartedly so um you know i think we can probably figure out something between now and the time this hits planning commission
 Garner, if this is approved tonight, when would you think this would be coming to planning? November sometime? I'll also defer to Wade on this, but if he wants to add, we had discussed making a trip to the Planning Commission with a conceptual design to get their input
 And I believe we were hoping to do that perhaps sometime in November. That's correct. Okay. So when you say sometime in November, you're talking about, you know, we've got a holiday in there. We've got, you know, thinking mid-November. Well, we were hoping to do it the first meeting in November. But November the 5th is, I believe, is...
 when we submit and then there'd be a November 9th meeting. So that's the conceptual discussion. Right. Okay. Yeah, I think we could probably, before we take the conceptual plan to planning, it would be kind of quick, but we could probably put something together. What are the thoughts of staff on this? Go ahead, tell me.
 Not sure exactly what you're asking. Well, if we have an input session, you know, of the public. What would you be asking the public? Well, what I'm getting personally is I'm getting, I wouldn't be asking the public as much of anything as much as we would be listening to the public comments. We're, you know, I keep getting, you know,
 comments from people who are disturbed at the whole facility, and I cannot agree with that myself, but I understand their concern, and I do want these people to have a chance to be heard, and I think some of the things that I'm hearing as complaints can be possibly addressed
 And we can still have a new facility for our police. I don't think it's one or the other, but I think that people are feeling like they have not been heard. So, and if we could do that without slowing down the process, I'd be all for that. Well, I have to admit, I have struggled with trying to figure out what people missing in the conversation and feel that they have, who haven't been heard. And so I really have a hard time with,
 It's not that I don't want to do something. I'd love to offer staff support for whatever form it took, but I struggle with what level of public feedback there is beyond what we're talking about tonight and what will impact the chief security concerns and the layout and the site.
 that have any impact on the discussion that will go to the Planning Commission, which is a really highly technical thing that I believe Garner and Wade have spoken to, and which is why they want to bring conceptual design. So to me, I'm not sure.
 what we'd be asking for or listen, we could listen. And I'm really having a hard time with that. I've had a hard time with that since we had our original public sessions, because most of the people that I've been hearing would like us to move ahead with the design that we seem to be heading toward with the site layout. Yes, I agree. I agree with that. I'm not, um,
 You know, I've heard from several people today that just, and it's kind of the same, you know, I'm just going to say this, it's kind of the same argument that we've had all along. And it seems to be stemming from, you know, from a desire not to build the facility at all. And I'm like, well, that should have been discussed two years ago, 18 months ago. Yeah.
 You know, so I don't know what I'm trying to, you know, I always want to try to listen to everybody if I can and give them a chance to, you know, have their voice. But I'm not in favor of slowing this down at all. I'm, you know, I'm really in favor of the rezoning. But I don't know. What are the thoughts of, you know, Sloan, you brought this up initially. Sarah? Yeah. Yeah.
 I would like to ask I would like to see the city ask the community what their priorities are for the site in the facilities and how this the construction this major public investment can be used to enhance the neighborhood to improve relationships between the community and FPD and the fire department.
 how we can make this a constructive benefit to the community. But most of all, projects are better when the stakeholders are engaged from day one. The public doesn't need to see a plan already put together. They want to establish their priorities and then we need to take those and put together a plan based on those priorities.
 The fact that we already have schematic designs without having done this basic stakeholder engagement with our citizens, the people who are paying for this and that we answer to, that's unconscionable. We need to have that feedback first and those members of the community need to have an opportunity to speak. Well, I want to get back on track to my original thought. Tonight we're talking about, is it appropriate to zone this property
 to a specific zone rezoning. It seems to me like if we're like every other rezoning that we've discussed, we could go ahead and rezone it. And then that would really allow us to go further with design. But all of this design discussion before the rezoning is not the protocol that we take with anything else. I'm not trying to throw a,
 an argument to stop anything. I think I'm throwing in an argument to take the next step because we get the zoning done just like any other project and then we can go on with design and have an open discussion on the design because we know that it's been rezoned. If this property is not supposed to be rezoned for whatever reason, then we need to look at that. That's my opinion. So are you making a motion then? Yeah, I move that we rezone this property.
 I'll second. We're on the first reading. We're on the first reading, so we need to make a motion, I guess, to go to the second. That's what I'll do. I will second that then. Okay, I move that we go to the second reading. We still need public comment. Hang on, everybody. Hang on, everybody. We've got to take some public comment here. I feel like we're not discussing design. We're discussing when we're going to discuss design.
 I don't think we're actually hitting that now. And I agree that I do want that meeting set up, hopefully soon, maybe tonight. So I don't think we're actually discussing design. It's just when are we going to have that meeting? Because there's a lot of people who want us to stop this totally because we haven't had that conversation or have a plan for that conversation. And I think if people see that we have the plan for that conversation,
 maybe we'll have less comments tonight. So. Susan, what was the, remind me again, what the, after our trip to the site, we had, we sent out how many letters to the neighborhood and how many, and we had, we had,
 some sort of questionnaire or what all the, remind us again what we did there. I'll be happy to. So after we had our council workshop, which included the staff, the council members and the stakeholders,
 that had been identified as either living in the area or affiliated with some of the major institutions in the area, including the public school and the university and students and neighbors. So we had a reflective body of people there. After that, the group who helped us with that workshop,
 identified from the consensus of the people who participated, the parameters that Chief spoke to a few moments ago. Then we were asked to put together a questionnaire using those parameters and the purpose statement from the workshop that we had.
 We distributed, I believe there were a thousand addresses within the neighborhood to Sarah Marsh's point about having feedback from people who live in the area. We also had an open questionnaire with those parameters and asking people to weigh the options. And the feedback we got, we had over 600 comments. The.
 results that the questionnaire was open for three weeks, the mailers went out, the results of the questionnaire were sent to each of you in an email where you had the opportunity to review those comments in detail before you then provided your feedback on the potential elements that
 Wade had discussed would go into the consideration for the conceptual design. So that is the public feedback we took and we felt from everything we read there that back to Sarah Council Member Bunch's comment, the majority, the great majority of the feedback we had was would you please get on with building this voter approved building,
 And the number of people who had disagreed in general that we should use taxpayer dollars at all was a handful. And those are the same people we're hearing from now, I believe, in my heart, who feel they haven't been heard. Okay. Okay. Okay. That's good to put that in perspective. So on a...
 So we got 600 responses to the questionnaire, or was that 600 responses total with the questionnaire and the mail word that went out? It was totaled between 600 and 700. I don't have the precise number. But it was all of that. In fact, it was published back to the web and has been there for people to review so that they could see the comments and respond even further. And quite frankly, this office, our office, has heard from people.
 No more than a half a dozen people since that time. Okay, that's good to know because I heard from several just this week. But my response, the majority of the people I have heard are in favor of just going forward with it. But that's good to help me put it all in perspective there because this has been going on. We've had all these different steps that we've gone through. So, okay, that's really good information.
 Thank you. All right. Anything else? Or what do you all want to do? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second. Mark, Mark, I mean, before we do that, I got to take, but we can suspend the rules and go to the second, right? But I got to take public comment at some point, at some point. Right. I agree. Okay.
 Okay, we have a motion to go to the second reading. Mark, is that correct? Are we supposed to? Shouldn't we take the public comment first? Yeah. All right. Let's do it. What are we doing? All right. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five-minute duration broken into three and two-minute segments. Okay.
 don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member stay on the topic the topic is the rezoning from ra to p1 no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first who would like to be first steve smith all right uh hello thank you mayor uh this is steve smith i live on in bridgeport drive in ward 4. i am traveling so i'll make this short and sweet because i have very poor cell signal
 uh but i would like to say i am in favor of this i would encourage you all to to rezone this p1 let's just build the police station this has gone on this is crazy let's not try to out portland portland just build the police station thank you and good night all right thank you who else would like to address us jared carter jared carter go on to the next one um jared you'll have to there he is go ahead jared okay well no i'm sorry all right josh moody
 Hi, this is Josh Moody, 432 West Adams in Fayetteville. In the spring of 2019, a few thousand Fayetteville voters did vote for this, along with 10 total bond initiatives. It was kind of hidden in there with the rest of them. I'm not sure that there was much public discussion at all before that or much awareness about it before that prior to the special election.
 What Chief Reynolds referred to in December with Stephen Carr, that was a reprehensible tragedy. I hope that never happens here or anywhere again. What happened this summer has kind of changed the world. I have a feeling that several Fayetteville voters would change their votes now, being more aware of what's going on in our society. When I say the world has changed, I mean that progressive middle-class white people
 or have finally become awake to the realities that our black and brown brothers and sisters never had the opportunity to forget. I assume I'm speaking out of turn because this is a rezoning issue, but I very much agree with council members Smith and Marsh that we should definitely have a lot more public discussion about this and not pretend that what has happened, what has transpired since we voted on this has not occurred. So I appreciate all the city council members consideration.
 Okay, everybody remember we're staying on the rezoning issue. Jared Carter. Okay. Jared. Leanna Jackson. Hello? Yes. Hi. Hi, guys. My name is Leanna Jackson. I live over at 2383 North Silk Rose. I have lived in Fayetteville, Arkansas since about 1994. I currently reside on the west side of town, obviously. Yeah. Anyways, and...
 I work currently in the heart of Fayetteville. I am an educator. I'm a teacher. And so I specifically drive right through that area. And so when I think about rezoning in that area specifically, right there specifically, that frustrates me because I think about how I'm having to risk my life going to school to help
 raise our youth. And now I'm gonna have to do worry about all this construction, my peaceful time with construction, where this is ultimately an area which is loved for its agriculture, and just for being a space of just love and everything. And so I think about the construction, I think about police in and out of that area, and how frustrated I will get constantly feeling like, oh my gosh, I'm stressing to get to work.
 And then, oh my gosh, there's a cop. So let me make sure I'm going below the speed limit so I don't get pulled over. And so it's just like, I know that police are very important in this area, but what's more important in this area besides police is community police. And I don't think it's specifically a...
 building that we need to build specifically in this area, but more so reform and some opportunities to utilize the areas in this state. Stay with the rezoning. Perfect. So when I think about rezoning in this area, it is not needed in this area because it is not what's needed for Fayetteville. Someone who's been living in this area for many, many years.
 My grandmother actually owned a taxi cab company back in the 90s. So I think about all of this area. I know this area with my heart. And I can tell you right now, that is not a great area to have a police department, a fire department, and whatever else the third building is supposed to be. I pray to God it's something to utilize growing the community and adult education. Because if it's none of that, like it doesn't even need to happen. So that's all I got. Bless you.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Jared, are you there? Jared Carter. I'm sorry, Jared. You're going to have to figure out how to unmute. We'll come back to you. Nicholas Sigalicus.
 It's Sigalakis, but thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. I just want to say thank you for taking the time to listen to me. My name is Nicholas Sigalakis. I live at 1002 West Clinton Drive, apartment A. I'm currently a law student here at the University of Arkansas. I'm commenting in support of rezoning. As a student, it's clear to me that the university in Northwest Arkansas has experienced tremendous
 In return, the city sprawl of Fayetteville continues to expand, and with that, the center of Fayetteville has changed. It's no longer Rock Drive. If we want the police to be able to readily respond to issues anywhere in our city, they need a headquarters and a location that enables them to timely respond to issues and conflicts within our city. Also, I think as in...
 One of the city councilmen mentioned, we talk about this being an issue of rezoning. There's a great risk for potential unintended consequences by voting this down. Voting this down is prohibiting, to my knowledge, any other public works in this area. As this area continues to grow, there will have to eventually be rezoning. We can have a discussion about the nature of whether or not this needs to be a police station at the next step of the process, which I think you'll discuss this evening.
 I know some other critics on this issue have expressed budgetary concerns regarding this amendment. And to that, I think that argument's a fallacy. The city has already budgeted for this through the sales tax bond, and that's why those initially passed the bond. So with that, I ask you to please vote through the zoning this evening. Thank you and have a blessed evening. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Jared, are you there? David Freeman?
 Hi there. Thank you for hearing me. My name is David Freeman. I live on Gooseberry Lane, just a few minutes north of where this police station is planned to be. I'd like to ask that we follow the standard procedure and hear this issue at least three separate meetings before voting it. We know that is a contentious issue. My biggest worry is that this rezoning passes without the City Council fully considering the impact that this investment will have on our community.
 to the best of my understanding there are 12 factors that we standardly consider when making a decision about a rezoning issue among those are safety public opposition that is logical and reasonable and good efficient civic design it's really frustrating to me to see the city council choosing to exclude valid concerns that do fall under these 12 factors
 When we think about safety and fire protection, what about the safety of the people who are harassed by police or the people who face intimidating retaliation for questioning the status quo? When we think about good civic design and efficiency, why do we choose to invest $36 million in a state-of-the-art facility when we could meet fundamental needs of our current police force for much less?
 When we think about appropriate and best use of land, why don't we consider how the most effective way to build a safer community is to provide our people with the resources that they need? So all this to say, I think there's a whole lot more to discuss here and a lot more that does fall under these 12 factors that we consider when talking about rezoning.
 It's been good to hear the comments of my fellow residents tonight, and I look forward to hearing more that are to come. And I know that what comes up is only gonna be the tip of the iceberg. So I really wanna urge y'all to follow standard procedure for the city council. Maybe in the meantime, we could have one of these public comment sessions that we've been asking for for months. And I'd like for this issue to be heard at least three times in separate meetings before this vote occurs. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address?
 Next is Nakisha Snell. Yes, go ahead. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Okay. So I'm Nakisha. I live in Fayetteville, Arkansas off of Weddington.
 And I am asking today that the conversation around rezoning for this area be paused until we do have the large public input session that was brought up by one of the council members or a couple of the council members earlier. My main concern is that there are
 Residents, many of whom are black residents who live on Dean and Porter and also near Dean and Porter, who already have had negative interactions, often have negative interactions with the FPD. And we have not engaged those residents to give their input yet.
 for any process, any part of this process of this conversation. I do understand that there was a vote on this last year in April 2019. I also understand, and please correct me if I'm wrong, but that there were no polling locations within Ward 2 where this jail will be located.
 And I got to ask you to stay with the rezoning. I am. This is about the rezoning. So you mentioned a jail. This is not a discussion about a jail and a rezoning. I'm sorry. Thank you. So we have some concerns about the new police station. Regardless, with this particular project,
 There are many residents who actually have just found out about this project within the past week, many of whom have just found out about this today, and they live on Dean and on Porter. And so in thinking about the rezoning of this area, I ask that we pause this conversation until you all have made a more significant effort to reach out directly to the
 to those residents who have been asking to be heard for months now. Next, we have Peter Tonneson. Go ahead. Peter, are you there? Can you hear me now? Yes. Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. The city acquired this 12 acres roughly months ago, and I would think that the rezoning to P1...
 institutional for government facilities is perfect. And at this point it should just be an administrative detail. So I wish that the city council would stop straining out a net and do this tonight and then get on to the next step. Thanks very much. Scott Burnham. Go ahead, Scott. Can you hear me?
 Yes. Okay. I'm calling into in support of the rezoning. The city council, I believe, and all the parties on city council were on the council a year ago when this property was purchased. We knew at that time what the property was purchased for. The P1 zoning is the perfect time.
 zoning for this piece of property, for the intended use of the property. It's just gonna drag things out longer if we do not go ahead and move forward with the obvious correct rezoning. The people that I've spoken with in that neighborhood are all in favor of this. They're all in favor of the police. And I think it's ludicrous for us to keep dragging this out.
 The P1 zoning is the correct zoning. You approved a fire station two weeks ago with the same exact rezoning. There's no basis for all of a sudden the concern about P1 zoning because it involves a police station.
 the P1 zoning is the correct zoning. The citizens of Fayetteville have voted for this project. They want this project and they're making their voice heard that they want this project and they want it moved forward. So I would strongly suggest and recommend that the council moves forward with this project and this rezoning tonight. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Richelle Augustine.
 Yes, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Hi. Yes, my name is Rochelle, and I live a block from the Dean and Porter site on 1615 North Stable Avenue. In recent months, I've had the opportunity to participate in the Urban Land Institute workshop with the city council, the police department, and other members of the community. Thank you.
 Based on this work, I support the rezoning of the site to P1 institutional, as it requires no variances, which means further delays, and it allows the setback needed to provide employee safety. Again, I support the rezoning of the property, and I would welcome it to the neighborhood. Thank you. Kenny Arredondo. Hello. Yes. Yes. So I wanted to talk about some of the things I'd like to talk about in regard to referring to the public.
 It's my understanding that this election was missing polling locations in two different locations or two different words. I'm sorry. I understand that. Well, I actually knew that I understood that they were missing polls in Ward 1 and tonight earlier somebody had said that they were missing polls in Ward 2.
 That's not a Democratic election. I've also seen a few people say that only 7% of people actually came out to vote on this. This doesn't sound like the city of Fayetteville, the people in the city of Fayetteville voted for this police station. It sounds more like a certain zone board. Kenny, you've got to stay with the rezoning. That decision's already been made. Okay, well, then let's talk about rezoning. Because, well, from there, I'd like to say that when it comes to anything that
 you know, deals with the police, this is the taxpayers' land. This is the taxpayers' – this is what people work for, and they pay out their paycheck to decide what happens in their community. So for every – the fact that it was even in question if we should have a public discussion about this is not a good sign for the people that live here because –
 This is actually their land. I mean, you could come to us about designing it, but we want to talk about the zoning of what taxpayers pay for. You know, that is still our land. And to leave it up to a city, a group of city council members who we're not sure who exactly are endorsed by the fraternity order of the police. It's not very democratic. It seems one sided to decide, oh, this shouldn't be discussed. You know, we shouldn't have a public discussion about this. I would like it for it to be public discussion.
 to see what exactly how people responded to those i believe they'll say y'all set out surveys they'll send out letters to the people who live in that area you got to stay with the rezoning here talk about the results the 100 the rezoning is that we need to uh those people in that area this is the rezoning they they should be able to determine what's being zoned next to where they live because they are the taxpayers and so with that being you know with that being said i would like can y'all possibly make that public somehow where you can see what exactly they said you know
 I would also like to talk about, I guess, officer safety, you know, whereas I understand nobody wants to be hurt. You know, nobody wants to be attacked. But in 2019, there is 40 some odd officers killed in the line of duty by felonious acts. Whereas there is one thousand and eighty. Kenny, you've got to stay with the reason. By the way, my name is Kenny. I'm speaking for Kenny. Well, the zoning is about I'm not speaking for Kenny. This my name is Jacob. My name is Jacob. But the zoning is about.
 The zoning is about officer safety. I heard the Chief Reynolds say at the beginning that he mentioned a police officer in Springfield that had been hit by a car. That requires the zoning too, that we need to discuss the zoning. And I believe that this zoning policy is about
 you know what that extra land is being zoned as you know it's supposedly about officer safety that's what y'all said y'all wanted some distance out where people can't access that land it's just left for the police so um i guess my point being is that when it comes to that i know several people who have been brutalized by the police including myself don't get it don't get into that stay with the rezoning or are we talking about safety or are we talking about
 We're talking about zoning here. I mean, if we're gonna talk about the taxpayers money and what it should be going to, it should be going to keeping us safe, right? That's what we need to be doing. The fact that we're disproportionately attacked by these officers and they are attacked by us. Okay. Okay, that's- And some of that people need to be concerned. Who else do you have? Okay, Mayor, before I call on the next member of the public, I just wanted to...
 try to remind some of the people who believe that this is the first time that this week. The council, you guys, the council has had no fewer than four distinct action items on this particular topic alone.
 surrounding the bond election before and after there have been discussions public discussions with agenda meetings and then council decisions that required public feedback
 So I just wanted to point that out. If anyone has forgotten, those eight action items are on the public website and have been ever since this discussion has been going on for two years. Okay. Yeah, and I wanna also add, when the council passed this, to send this to the vote of the people, about November of 2018, I spent the next five months
 and having public meetings with the people to see what they thought about the 10 questions. And we discussed these issues. I know I had at least, I've got my notes from back then, around 18 of those. So, I mean, if people didn't know, I don't know what to tell them. I know that Susan just got through talking about sending out a thousand letters in that area. And I'm a little surprised that nobody,
 knows about anything so but there has been public input sessions that i had just during the campaign process of the trying to pass all 10 questions all right who's next natalie morris okay go ahead natalie are you there
 Can you all hear me? Yes. Yes. I'm so sorry. Hey, good evening, Mayor Jordan, council members, and Chief Reynolds and Chief Hardin. Thank you for letting me participate this evening. My name is Natalie Morris, and I live at 9 East Lovers Lane in Ward 1. We also have a second residence at 1521 West Cedar Street, which is in Ward 2 and directly down the street from the proposed site.
 I am asking you to vote in favor of the rezoning of this to institutional. I think that the voters did speak in 2019, and it was 79% in favor of fire for the bond issue and 70% for police.
 So I'm asking that you consider that. I think this is just the next step in making sure that we progress towards what the people voted for and asked for. So thank you for your time. And I would like to recognize Chief Reynolds for your award as Chief of the Year from the AACP. Thank you. Next, let's see, Jared, are you able to make your connection? Jared Carter.
 I'm sorry, Jared. I'm not sure about your mic. Jeff Koenig. Jeff, you want to unmute? Can you hear me now? Yeah. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. My name is Jeff Koenig. I live at 2853 North Rivercrest, Fayetteville. And I urge you to move forward and rezone this to the P1 institutional. It's the best use of the property. It is.
 it needs to be done in order to keep the project on track. I appreciate Susan Norton detailing the survey that went out. And if you read the results of that survey, which I know that you have, overwhelmingly in the comments, police safety is the number one concern. The number two concern is moving the project forward.
 And we can't move the project forward if we don't get this rezoning done. I also know that during the campaign that Lionel mentioned to present the issue to the voters, the reaction to the police station was overwhelmingly positive, not only at the polls but in the discussions and in the presentations. So it bewilders me why we just keep beating this thing to death.
 It's time to move forward and zone this P1. I yield the rest of my time. Next, we have Derek Coughlin. I'm sorry if I can't pronounce correctly. Hello. How's it going? Can you hear me? Yes. All right. So my name is Derek Coughlin, and I live at 2660 West Weddington Drive, and
 Sorry, I had to write down what I was going to say because usually when I try to talk, it's tone police. So we're talking about rezoning today. And I just think that an important part of this discussion is the cultural impact of what you're rezoning for, because it is.
 It's just as relevant to the conversation about rezoning as the technical, well, do we rezone it to this kind of zone or, you know, just like all of that kind of like political jargon. Like there are a lot of other things that go into rezoning this, especially for what it's being rezoned for. Yeah.
 I would like to say that I hear that the council and the mayor feel like there's been high standard of democracy involved with this process, but I feel like you cannot deny that there are many people, many, many, many people, and I don't think it's just the same people. There are many people voicing that the efforts to outreach about this rezoning was not sufficient and that they have not had ample opportunity to be a part of this decision. I understand that
 You guys feel like there has been a lot of participation, but from the numbers that I heard in that survey and also who voted, that was by no means a statistically significant portion of these wards or even our city as a whole. So I don't think that we can say the people of Fayetteville have spoken, the people of Fayetteville have voted, when I think it's very clear that there's a lot of people who... Let's stay with the rezoning. You're getting off on the...
 I'm talking about the rezoning and the voting about rezoning. So I'm not sure how I'm getting off topic. I just, I just want to say like,
 Because this is, again, like I said, this is important to the conversation about rezoning and these people's participation in voting democratically to participate and allow this rezoning. So, again, it's about rezoning. A lot of these people who have not been able to be a part of this conversation about rezoning are impacted culturally and speak into the danger from interactions from police. I understand that that's frustrating and you think it doesn't have anything to do with rezoning, but it does because these people are in the zone where this is going to be rezoned.
 we cannot ignore these real people who matter just as much as the people who were surveyed and who voted. I understand that this is like a lot of people feel like this is dragging on and dragging on, but a lot of these people that are talking about rezoning and talking about the things around rezoning have been unheard for a very, very long time and felt like it's dragged on and that there's just a lot of these developments that,
 arise out of kind of nowhere for them because usually a lot of these people aren't in the privileged position to be as involved with the conversation about rezoning because they literally just don't have time. They're working their jobs, they are living their lives and as that one teacher said, you know, like a lot of them are dodging police because they don't have good interactions with them. I would like to ask the council to
 and some people's words, drag this out a little bit longer. I would like to request that there is, you know, a designated, again, maybe you guys already had public discussion, but maybe another one because there are several citizens voicing that, hey, we feel like there's a large population that lives in this ward that has not been able to participate. So it may be good enough for you, but you cannot ignore those citizens of Fayetteville who say, hey. Okay, stay with the rezoning.
 Yeah, who have said that they didn't get to participate in the rezoning conversation. So that's talking about the rezoning. I mean, I'm saying, and like, I just, I really feel like I'm being misunderstood because you keep thinking I'm not talking about the same issue, but I am. And I don't know, like, that's also like really disreling to a train of thought. Like I am talking about rezoning. So I just would like to talk about these censorship, you know, like tactics that are happening to people.
 It seems only one side of the aisle. Um, yeah, like I said, I just I feel like we need to before we just move forward with rezoning this, we need to understand what that even means culturally. That we need to do another public outreach because there are people from the public saying that they feel like their potions of the public not being represented.
 And you can present all this evidence saying that you are representing everybody. But if there are people saying that they don't feel they're being represented, I feel like you need to really analyze that. Okay. Okay. I hear what you're saying. Yeah. But, yeah, sorry I had to beat it over the head that many times because I just kept getting derailed. But have a good night, y'all. Thank you for your time. Okay. Thank you. All right. Let's see. Sarah Moore. Okay. Go ahead, Sarah.
 Hi, this is Sarah Moore. Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay. I'm gonna save my time to Jared Carter. I've got him on the phone and we're gonna try this out. Okay, way to go Sarah. Okay Jared. Way to go Jared. Thanks Jared for persevering. Barely, but if you speak it louder perhaps. Can't hear me now either. That's better. Try again Jared. Can't hear me. Can you guys hear me? Yes.
 All right, well, can you hear me better now? First, I just want to say, Jared Carter, 1564 West Cedar, here in Fayetteville, do not cut off. Ms. Jackson, like you did earlier. Ms. Snell, like you did earlier, like Derek just now. Those people do not need to be silenced. Those people are the people who are speaking up for people who were not represented when you had this vote.
 You know, for us to sit here and even continue to talk about this while there were boards that were not represented with the voting in their particular precinct is disgusting. It's also disgusting for Mayor Jordan, for Susan, for Sarah to get on here and continually try to silence those people and say, shut up and let's vote.
 It's not right at all. You guys know that. I live a block and a half from where you're trying to put up this place. And yeah, I do have a problem with it. I didn't live here before, but I live here now. So I'm going to stay in the fight and make sure that we get a change and that the people here in this area that weren't represented aren't.
 You guys know that the housing and the situation across the street. And, you know, those people are willing to have this police station put up there. You guys also know that that's going to flood them out. And it's like you don't care. That's probably a part of your plan, just like, you know, removing the situation on the south side is what you call it, the situation. But it's not just a situation to everyone and to most of us.
 who reside here and live in these areas and who have constant dealings with the police. It's not just a situation. It's a, it's everyday life. So what we need you to do is go ahead and consider if you would, you know, our lives and our well being. When we, you know, sit here and make these, these pleas to you. I'm not a person to please for my life, but
 I hear people, you know, steady doing it, steady online and steady telling you that this is a negative situation for them. It's not productive for them. It's not productive for their kids or for their community and where they live. So the choice is now, you know, you can tell me about what was voted on or what wasn't voted on. I get that.
 The whole reason we have these meetings and the whole reason that you people are in office is that so when something isn't right, that we can change it and not say, oh, that's the law. You know what is done now? Then what the hell do we have you guys for? I can see the rest of my time. Please do not cut off any more black people when they're speaking from their hearts about their situation and what goes on with them here in Fayetteville. That's not something I'm going to deal with.
 Simone Cottrell. Go ahead.
 Hi. Hey, good evening. This is Simone Cottrell. She, her, hers. I live in Ward 2. I want to say thank you first off to Sarah Marsh and Kyle Smith for bringing up some really valid concerns regarding the design and therefore the rezoning of this area. I also want to thank David Freeman for bringing up some really great points that I want to elaborate on as well because that was some new information that I wasn't aware of as it's not my field.
 I am a strong, I would really love for the council to really strongly consider adding additional community conversations to this. I understand and thank you so much for sending out the 1,000 letters to get feedback and getting 600. But what I didn't hear is how many of those sent.
 600 are BIPOC folk or folks who are who have disability or folks that are in low poverty areas. And that's something that concerns me when we get community input is who's being represented, who's present and who's absent with those voices. So adding additional community conversations to really balance out maybe something that we haven't heard yet.
 especially since this was voted on in the past. And as we all know, 2020 has been a banner year of things going really badly for a lot of people. Our mindsets have changed. Our hearts have changed. Things have changed. So if we can get those conversations in, that I think could really help
 further what I think Fayetteville wants to be. I also want to address that for a lot of us who may not have been super active in community politics in the past, we are present now and we're learning just as y'all are learning how to navigate this world together. So having grace for us to speak
 because this is not easy to do. And especially having grace and patience for those of us who are truly speaking from the heart and we are learning and we may not get it right every time, but to keep being patient with us as we learn and communicate exactly what we want. I hope what I've seen is a growing number of people who are speaking up that haven't spoken up before and that's a really great sign. And I wanna encourage that. Thank you so much. Okay, thank you.
 Alex Maroner. Hello, can you all hear me? Yes. Great. Well, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. My name is Alex Maroner. I'm a resident here in Fayetteville in Ward 2, just off Dean Street, so less than a half mile from this property in question for the rezoning. I'll try to keep my points just strictly to rezoning. A lot of my fellow residents have done a much better job than I can, elaborating on some of the other issues.
 issues I have against this proposed project, I come out firmly against rezoning. And it's for a number of practical reasons, among many others, but
 I drive by this location every day. I don't know how many other city council members or other residents do as well, but there is a lot of traffic in that area, especially around rush hour. I think that adding a building like this, especially that corner will only exacerbate it. A lot of these people are backed up at those traffic lights just on Porter waiting to get on the interstate north or south. And so I feel like even the traffic will be blocking the police station
 at peak hours, kind of hindering the ability of officers and fire trucks to get in and out. I think this will only make it worse. And then the location of it within Fayetteville,
 doesn't seem like the best fit for me either. I realized that this land is already purchased. I realized that the kind of northwest part over on Mount Comfort is growing a little bit, but for the most part this seems tucked off into a corner of the city. It would be much better suited elsewhere, so I'm against a
 this particular spot especially, you can hop on the interstate maybe, but otherwise your avenues in and out of there are to drive quickly down these narrow residential streets, including Porter Avenue, drive by Hasbell Elementary School, or to speed down Dean Avenue. And this is a narrow two-lane road. I heard the designers, even though we weren't talking about design, it came up a lot from,
 from some others to talking about street parking and things like that and i don't know how that would function in this particular location again two lane road no turn lane uh i don't know how any of the the flow in and out of the property would work um and
 i guess my last point is just kind of talking about switching it over from the existing zoning of the residential agriculture over to this industrial proposition and really i think a lot of the charm of the area is the beautiful scenery um
 Having these kind of agriculture and livestock areas over there is a nice respite on the corner of town. And someone mentioned the friendly posture of this police station earlier, but I would much prefer to have it stay as it is and to have a nice break in scenery there. That's why a lot of people chose to live there as well.
 And maybe as just a last anecdote or aside, the police chief was talking about setting back the building for blast zones and things like that. And as someone who lives close by, that was just pretty alarming to me to be bringing in a potentially dangerous new project to this area and bringing up all these threats that were just a little bit shocking to me and I hadn't even considered.
 I'll see the rest of my time. I am against this rezoning, and thank you very much for listening. Okay. Gwendolyn Moroner? Hello, can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you. Okay. I am also speaking up against this rezoning, and I think that it's important to listen to all of the voices who are telling you,
 that they're not being heard and especially Jared Carter mentioned that people are being interrupted as they're trying to speak and the rezoning is related to so many other things like whether or not anybody was able to actually vote on this rezoning and whether people are able to speak about this rezoning. We're all having to just
 talk about rezoning over and over again to get you to listen to the fact that only 7% of the people in Fayetteville even voted on this and
 So this is not really representative of people who want this and people in the neighborhood are mentioning that they want more public input and I really think that that should be a priority before you move forward. This is all just being rushed instead of taking the time for public comment and actually listening to the public comment and ensuring that this is what the people in Fayetteville want
 And I don't think that it is. And if you had 600 surveys that you received back, that's not really representative of the people of Fayetteville. How many people live in this neighborhood? And how many people live in Fayetteville? And you're telling me you got good feedback because you got 600 surveys?
 That is barely representative. It is time for you to pause this and not rezone right now and wait and listen to actual public comment when you're getting better representative numbers for the population and listening to your constituents. And I live in this area and I love that there is
 just agriculture fields everywhere. I walk my dog on the path that goes right behind this and it's beautiful. And I don't want to have anything else there. I would like to keep it as agricultural and that is all I have to say. I cede the rest of my time. Okay. Ron, it's Sue Callaway. Yes, this is Sue Callaway. Can you hear me? Yes.
 Yes, I'm a resident of Fayetteville. I live at 2848 South Club Oak Drive, Ward 1. I would like to encourage all of the city council members to please get on with the building of this wonderful facility. A year ago when the bond issue was at issue, my husband and I,
 discussed it at length. And I'll tell you that the main reason we voted for that bond issue was because of this police station. It is direly needed. It is in a wonderful location. It's closeness to I-49 and where it is, the police will be able, and the fire will be able to serve people
 all of the areas that are have so spread out in Fayetteville. I heard someone say, who lived in that area, we don't want that much police interaction. And I said, what? The only reason you wouldn't want police interaction is if you're doing something wrong.
 I live in South Fayetteville. Yeah, ma'am, you got to stay with the rezoning. You either like the rezoning or stay with the rezoning. Okay, I think that my preference would be for every city council member to vote P1 for the rezoning. I think it's been voted upon. It is what people of Fayetteville want.
 And I appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Next we have a cow on. Yeah. I'm sorry. I did it again, but I kept you to the last, because you told me you were from out of town. So. Yeah. So I respect that very much. So I don't have a lot to add. I too, as well. I'm against the rezoning. I frequent Fayetteville. I was it's.
 I plan to move there soon. And it's just, uh, it may seem like we're just a bunch of people or black people don't like police or something like that, but they're really to, to, to those who are asking, well, no, I can't do that, but, uh,
 If I'm the last one, I don't want to say the same stuff everyone's been saying, but just for some context, there is a reason. Like, for people who are living, the number one vote to be taken is the people who are living in that area, and they're the last ones to be referred to. And if you ask them if they had a single positive encounter with the police, they'll say no, and something can be done about that.
 But as it is right now, without anything being done, things aren't just going to naturally change.
 And I'm glad there's going to be a damper in that shooting range, but it's still, that's going, that's a form of noise pollution. Now the people voting for it that don't live in that particular neighborhood are not going to be affected by it. They, the police are going to protect them. I haven't noticed a person of color supporting this bill. People who are supporting our people are going to be affected positively by it and not negatively affected by it through any form of harassment. I'm not saying it's intentional. Sometimes it may be intentional,
 a bias that is there. But the noise is not going to affect them and the bias is not going to affect them. So of course they want it. They don't have to lose anything. And the people who are going to lose everything, they don't care about them anyway. They don't want to hear them. They don't want to know what's going on with them. They'll just say, oh, this couldn't have happened. My son loves the police. Well, I'm sure he does. But both things are possible.
 So to those who are so adamantly against it, now what I understand hearing is, okay, it's good for us, and I'm sorry that it's bad for you, but this is what's happening. But just saying it's good for us, we don't care about you, that's really just showing a form of ignorance, of prejudice, and just outright, to be honest, racism.
 So I think it is possible to find a solution that's mutually beneficial. If you wouldn't mind a police station being moved in your backyard to where you could hear the buffered noise pollution and to where you'd be better off for it because they'd be helping you directly, then I don't think anyone would be against that. But to do it to where you lose nothing at the cost of another group of people that you obviously don't care about, I don't think that that is right. I yield the rest of my time.
 All right, thank you. That's it, Mayor. You have no more. All right. I'll bring it back to the council. Mayor, I'll offer a comment. Okay. I have, I made a commitment tonight to listen as intently as I could before I decided to speak and share my thoughts. And not just tonight, but also all the other communications that I've been having about this. And...
 I'm not going to bury the lead. I'm going to tell everyone how I vote, but I also have some things, I guess, to criticize tonight about what I've heard and to support. I am going to support the rezoning, and I want to talk about that first. The rezoning to me is not the thing we should be focused on or the main game.
 part of the conversation. I don't mean for the vote tonight, I mean in general. I believe that we can do a lot more with this land than we've been presented with and that's why I worked so hard to make sure that the future uses were maintained and that the area was clearly delineated. Whether this rezoning goes to P1 or goes to one of the other acronyms that we have,
 I don't feel it's very consequential for any of the things that I've heard citizens express their concerns about or their hopes with for this project. I think the zoning part of that broader conversation, it feels like a very small piece and a piece that actually doesn't make a whole lot of difference whenever it comes to the kinds of programming or the kinds of criticisms and concerns that we've heard.
 The main point of the zoning is to control a little bit of where buildings get placed on the site. And the zoning doesn't really control at all. It's not strictly true, but for practical purposes, the zoning doesn't really control what happens inside the buildings very much at all.
 which is why I'm comfortable with P1. Originally, I had some concerns with the way the site setbacks were drawn in the first designs that we saw, but with the way the schematic seems to be progressing, now the setback includes a trail and some additional trees and a plaza at the corner, which is what I expect to see when this goes to Planning Commission.
 And that changes my consideration about the setbacks itself. For me, when it came to the zoning,
 having the site designed a little bit better was the deal breaker, the deal maker for me on the zoning itself. And I feel like with the commitment today that the setback will have the design elements that I just mentioned within it and with the parking moved out for street parking, I feel like I'm okay with the zoning part proceeding.
 But I do have some criticisms about what's been expressed or what's been characterized tonight. And I feel like I wanted to go back over the timeline because I think it's really convenient, especially in the election season, to let our friends blame the city council for anything. And I feel like that's a lot of what has happened over the past six months in regards to this project.
 It seems like it's been very easy just to let the community say anything and just to see where it goes and we'll handle it whenever it comes to these public hearings. And I really don't think that that's a very good community process when I'm being honest and frank about it. So I wanted to revisit a couple of things. The first time the city council saw this site design ever was in May. I think it was May. Was it June? I think it was May.
 I never got a preview. I never even got to sit down with anybody and look at what people were thinking. And to my knowledge, I don't think any of the other council members were invited to do so either. The first time I saw this was when it was presented to that meeting in May. And since then, the council has been blamed.
 for delaying this process because we asked normal questions. But hey, if anybody had sought a meeting with me three months earlier or two months earlier, whenever those site designs were just in a sketch format, my feedback would have been exactly the same. I think we would have had a lot more time to get ahead of this. And then after it was presented to the council for the first time,
 There are 60 days went by before we had our workshop with you a lie, which I supported I supported doing that workshop. I was eager to do that workshop and I felt like that workshop was was run okay it was successful for for its purposes. But the fact is 60 days went by so that we could correct the design with response to council comments that should have been taken and received much earlier than that.
 Since then, we were told that we would have a follow-up session with ULI, which we learned tonight has been canceled. And in the meantime, I think it's totally correct to say that the schematics have been being worked on in good faith. So I don't mean to lay out this timeline to say that one group deserves blame or another group deserves blame. I'm just trying to talk about what the timeline actually is, because it seems like a lot of people are turning the timeline into what they want it to be.
 That doesn't make sense to me. We've had surveys, but I just spent the last 20 minutes listening and searching through my inboxes to find the survey results and the way that they were characterized or the demographic profiles or the crosstabs or anything like that for the surveys.
 And I kind of would have expected to see some of that information presented tonight to justify the rezoning, but we haven't seen it. And that's okay. For me personally, I don't need to see that for the rezoning itself. But I do feel like I need to see it whenever it comes to the broader community discussion. So I think where I'm at is that...
 This process wasn't normal. Now it is becoming normal, but it certainly didn't start that way. And I think that's a big cause in where we're at on the timeline. There's at least 60 days in the process that we've taken now that could have been avoided if the council had just been checked in with during schematic design, not at the end of schematic design.
 Okay, so here's where we're at now. And this is my point about the rezoning maybe not being the best place for community members to focus their energies going forward. And I wanna be really sensitive talking about this and acknowledge that my experience has really been quite a bit different than a lot of people that we've heard from on both sides. I mean, I really haven't interacted with the police at all.
 very rarely. And so I don't have negative experiences and I don't really have a whole lot of positive experiences. I'm pretty neutral. And I wanna try and approach that with that mindset. Because I feel really strongly and it seems really apparent that we don't have a community plan for public safety.
 We have one for transportation. We have one for recycling and trash. We have one for 71B. We have one for bike lanes. But we don't have one for public safety. We've done all this kind of ad hoc. And one of the reasons that this conversation about the police station
 feel so important for a lot of community members who support it is because we went so long waiting to have this conversation. And when it came time, all we've talked about is what the headquarters should look like. It just seems like there's a whole lot more to talk about, even after we make these decisions about the headquarters. It seems like we need...
 a community master plan for public safety. It seems like that's the kind of thing that we should give our the same amount or even more attention to than we do with other with other planning efforts. So where it comes down to me for tonight is this rezoning
 itself feels like an appropriate rezoning for the uses that are proposed. I think if we were putting any civic uses on this site, mental health facilities, housing services, it could be anything, whether it's police or not, P1 zoning is probably the right zoning because it's for civic uses. So I'm okay with that.
 and I'm ready to vote for that tonight. But I still have this big concern that hasn't been addressed. And honestly, it feels like it's kind of getting pushed aside that we don't have any kind of a community long-term plan for public safety. And we need to.
 Council Member Smith has mentioned several times that we should have a citizen oversight committee. I express support for that. And maybe it should be an oversight and planning committee so that we can get some of these things figured out for the long term and know in advance where we should be headed for the next 10 years. I'm going to address a few questions.
 of the comments that have been made tonight about the rezoning. And I'm going to look at this in terms of if we were looking at any other rezoning. There have been comments made about, several people made comments about how much they liked the open land that was there. And, you know, we always have this concern from neighborhoods that don't want something when there's an open piece of land.
 They enjoy the way that it looks now, but it's not their land. If the university wanted to build, take that whole farm out and build something there, they would be coming and asking for rezoning. And it's their land, and we would probably be looking at it the same way as we're looking at this in some respects. So I don't really think that the fact that it's a university farm now means that it should be a university farm forever. Right.
 And some of the comments are about the traffic that this is going to create. Well, we're also talking about, we're redoing, redesigning the road there. This is not just gonna be the same road with this facility plopped down in the field. It's gonna be a different road. We've talked about a stoplight. We've talked about a roundabout. We've talked about a bus term, you know,
 Stop there of a public transit stop. So those are all things that we're talking about in conjunction with this, but tonight it's just the rezoning so we're also dealing with the traffic. And, you know, on, on another level to whether this is a good location for this facility, I would
 Say that it's a great location for this facility. It is convenient to I-49. It allows, you know, the growth is in West Fayetteville. It's not...
 It's not downtown anymore. I mean, the center of Fayetteville has moved away a little bit. And if we want to find a large chunk of vacant land, it's really hard. You're not going to find that in Ward 3, probably, you know, that would fit this. So I think the location is good. I'm in favor of the rezoning. I think we can get the traffic issues worked out if there are any
 And as far as whether we need someone had mentioned we don't need to know this is not a good place for a fire station with the growth we're having in West Fayetteville this is a perfect place for a fire station. You know, it increases the safety of this whole area of town if we have a fire station over there.
 If you live closer to a fire station, I think it also decreased, you know, it helps with your insurance rate even, you know. So those are issues that I'm looking at from strictly the rezoning perspective. I'm going to support the P1 rezoning and just wanted to address a few of the concerns that people had expressed that were totally related to the rezoning and why I feel the way I do about them. So thank you. Thank you.
 I would like to agree with both Councilmember Bunch and Petty. The location here we chose a long time ago. We didn't buy the land expecting not to rezone it or expecting not to build the project we bought it for. That was its purpose. I tried to be honest with folks in the community throughout the conversation that we had.
 We are going to build a police station. We are going to build a fire station. Voters approved it. We borrowed the money. We are obligated to follow through with the plan. This is where we decided to put it. It has been complicated every step of the way. The land purchase was wrapped up in Lewis Park. The construction is wrapped up in a trail project. That is why I have been so focused on making sure we get the details right. Because it interacts in so many other areas. I think we have a lot of work to do. I think we have a lot of work to do. I think we have a lot of work to do. I think we have a lot of work to do.
 When it comes to the conversation, I do not think we have gotten the details right and I think people keep coming back here every opportunity they get to tell us perception is reality. While we may have had eight public meetings, we have seen the same thing at all of them. The topics at these meetings are so constrained that people can't say what they have to say. That's why I think it's important that we do get this forum together
 Because they may be able to speak here, but they're not being heard. And they're telling us that over and over and over again. And that's why since our ward meeting back in July, we've been asking for some form of public conversation that goes beyond the scope of just the things that we're allowed to deal with during an agenda item here. Our conversation has been bureaucracied to death, and that's a problem.
 This is the second bond project that's become unnecessarily contentious because of poor communication. And I think that's something we can get better at. It's usually one of our strong points in this city. As for the rezoning here or the project in general, I have been accused of a lot, but I've never wanted to slow it down.
 That's why we've been trying to have these conversations earlier, like Councilmember Petty was saying. But I do have two questions because I've gotten a hint tonight that that there are some expectations that we don't follow normal procedures. And so I just want to make sure, are we on schedule as we originally planned to be? Yes, yes we are. And did we come to this meeting tonight in
 with the expectation that we were going to suspend the rules and pass all three readings in one one night to stay on schedule? We could only hope. We could only hope. Yes, I agree with Susan. The schedule is tight but we're on budget. We're on time right now. But if it goes... Will we still be on schedule if we take multiple meetings on this?
 I don't know, Garner, you can probably answer that. If you don't mind, I can chime in there. Yeah. So, yeah, we're, like I say, we're trying to get something to the Planning Commission in November. And so, you know, actually, we are changing the procurement of this project to FastTrack.
 where before we were going to do get the whole project put together and then bid it as one but in order to stay on schedule uh we're going to be putting this out in several packages we're going to start with a grading package then we'll do a foundation and steel package then we'll do a building envelope package and then a finished package so that sounds like a lot of steps that have to go pretty rapid fire and and we came tonight expecting a final decision
 we would never expect that from an applicant or never never allow an applicant to expect that and so i think that kind of goes to the frustrations that we've been having that we still haven't seen what that consensus that we supposedly developed in private meetings was until tonight um
 And there's an Exhibit A amendment that was presented that we haven't even discussed and would be hard to discuss without knowing which consensus plan we pulled. And those are the kinds of conversations that we would normally have. Just a quarter mile here, we've got a neighborhood that we talk about
 I've heard so many times this year how it's a stable, modest, affordable neighborhood. And even when we know how the decisions are going to go, because we're all pretty good vote counters here, if there's controversy, we wait. And we're not going to follow that protocol tonight, because we have to keep this project on schedule to meet the commitment that we've made to voters. I'm going to support the zoning. I probably prefer to support it in its
 all P1 style, even though I would rather carve out an area
 for later. But until we know where that area is going to be, I don't feel comfortable getting into that level of detail. So I hope that we can be on the record knowing that we're going to come back and get those details right later on when we decide where our future uses are going. That we'll have another rezoning where we carve that piece out again. But we just don't even have the information we need to make those decisions. And we've got a deadline to meet.
 I have some thoughts on this, of course. The city owns this property. Regardless of what they're going to use it for, P1 is the right zoning, and it's been mentioned tonight before. I'm going to make my choice on whether to support it or not based on what is allowed by right within a zoning that we're considering.
 And so to me, it's that easy. And this is step one. We know the steps we have to take. We know the timeline we have to follow. This is step one. We can go ahead and get it zoned, and we can still have public input on what to do with the property. We can still have public input on how people feel about a police station. This does not prevent that. So I'm voting yes.
 for this because it is a good zone, good zoning for this specific piece of property. And that's what I'm considering tonight because that's how we do zoning. Thanks. You know, I kind of, um, a lot of the comments that were made tonight, um, you know, that didn't really have that much to do with zoning, but had to do with, uh, feelings of, of community members and that sort of thing that, that,
 The zoning does not change those. And we can still have those conversations, can't we, with a new facility? I mean, it's not an either-or thing as far as I'm concerned. I feel like our current police facility is so woefully inadequate, it is just not even funny what they have done.
 They have worked that building around until they've worn the hide off of it, trying to remodel it to make it fit what a growing town needs. And so I don't know where policing will be in 20 years.
 but this facility is going to last a lot longer than 20 years. So, but I think the conversations about where we want policing to go in 20 years, we can have those conversations even with a new building. I mean, it's not, it's not, I don't see that as being one or the other, but I think P1 is the correct zoning. And I agree with Mark. This is,
 This is just step one, and it does not prevent us from having, if we need to have a meeting before we have planning commission, even though we've had a lot of opportunity for public input. It is, you know, it's like sometimes you have this opportunity there and people don't realize it's there for whatever reason, you know, and the conversation starts when the conversation starts.
 And so we can still have that conversation, I believe, and still go ahead and vote for the P1 zoning. So that's what I'm in favor of. Thank you. Okay. Well, we're still on the first reading. I move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. No.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. And you want us to rezone that property, describe in rezoning petition RZN 20-011 located northeast of Dean Street and Porter Road for approximately 11.6 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to P1 Institutional.
 Move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Before we do that, can we set a date for the public input meeting? I am totally fine with that. Because I feel like that's a priority that the community has expressed over and over and over again. And as we march forward, I want to know that we're going to receive public input. I will remove my motion until we have that. Thank you. So we're going to leave it here.
 What are we doing here? I think we're just going to get the administration's commitment of a date for this public input session that the public keeps asking for. And then I think we can move on to the third reading. Okay. Well, I know that you all are hearing that people are wanting to hold things up. I will tell you in my office.
 They don't want to hold it up. The emails I'm getting are saying we want the police station built and we need to move it along. We're hoping to move forward tonight. We just want a date for a meeting before planning commission. And I think you have the vote tonight to move forward to planning commission, but we need that date.
 I don't understand how someone could make up a date with all of you all. And I mean, I don't have a calendar that I can magically say this is the date. Well, you know, I've been listening to the council and this is an unusual situation. It's not just a regular group coming through. In fact, the city council does have some rights to obviously impact this development.
 I think that the Planning Commission, if the land is rezoned tonight, then I think what I've heard from Wade is that they're going to try to have a concept flat to be going to the Planning Commission in November and have it ready for the agenda session for the Planning Commission in the first week in November. Now, a concept flat is the first step or the first step
 It is basically to get input back from the Planning Commission. I don't think it'd be improper to have the concept flat also come to the owners, which is the city council, to get their input at about the same time, if not before the Planning Commission. It'll be a while before we can get the concept flat because obviously they have to rezone the land first so they can actually put the engineering work in to get the concept flat.
 But I would think that by the time it's ready for the Planning Commission, I think the City Council would be ready for it too. And I think it could be brought even maybe to the first meeting in November to the City Council. Now, they probably wouldn't be out by the agenda session, but certainly I think it could be out for the meeting.
 And a concept plan is to get input back from the city council or the planning commission or the public. And so I think that would be one meeting that would be before it actually got to the planning commission. If we made it on that city council night, then everybody's going to be here.
 and we i think you misunderstand the intent of of what we're asking for here we're not asking for the city council to review a concept plan we're asking for the public input to be heard before a concept plan is developed i'm afraid that probably push it way back so i guess forget what i said
 I think it's the urgency on this public meeting that the public has been asking for, the city council has been asking for. We want the input session on the schedule as soon as possible so that we can keep this project moving along in a way that's consistent with the values of this community. To add to that, I think it would be,
 I think it is catastrophically unfair to our planning commission to set them up to have the first meeting where we know they are going to be bombarded with policy feedback instead of planning feedback. That is our job. I think we need to be prepared to take that burden on before they get it so they don't have to. I still struggle with what the public feedback session is.
 as comprehensive as the discussion of a master community plan for public safety as council member petty mentioned or is it some kind of feedback on the um concept the elements that are going to go into the concept matt which in fact we already have council member marsh could you or council member sloan describe what a public feedback session format would look like
 It could be similar to what we did with ULI, except instead of it just being us, it's citizens. And maybe we do all that we can do at this point is a look at the map. So I've seen, I'm not maps, site plans. I've seen site plans, but I don't know if anybody else has seen site plans outside of the people that are currently in this meeting.
 unless we took screenshots and gave it to them. So that hasn't been made public. So either of those need to happen. Either, but which would you, are you describing a session in which? Yeah, what do you all want us to do here? I mean. A session in which Wade would bring similar site elements and options as we shared with you.
 Unfortunately, probably given the time, that may be the best we can do. We should have had something similar to ULI for citizens nine months ago. But I'm okay if at the end of agenda session, we allow people to talk. So we have a meeting after that. That would probably, it would be late.
 But most of us can come to agenda sessions because we rotate our life around that and then hopefully citizens can as well. So are you suggesting that we ask citizens to react to the conceptual plan that we would design before we go to the plan? Yes, I'm okay with that. I wish we had done more like the ULI nine months ago, but that's already passed.
 So I would like to know the community priorities for the site and facilities and what we need to do to ensure that we're we're meeting the community's goals in terms of making this a friendly facility that is going to help.
 protect and serve the community and and so just listen because we're i'm getting a ton of feedback from the community people are angry about a lot of different things there's a lot of misinformation and there's just a lot of people that want to express their feelings about this and and we have a responsibility to listen to that and there may be some great ideas in there um and
 We owe it to the community to listen. They're clearly telling us they want to talk to it. They want it to speak so badly that they're staying up past 9 o'clock to speak on rezoning issues about this because we haven't given them an appropriate venue to express their concerns.
 And so an open-ended session, a charrette like we did with Yuli, as well as some guided questions. We have schematic plans, apparently. Apparently it's far enough along that we can carve out areas to zone different things. Show that and let people discuss the strengths and weaknesses of those strategies. But most of all, listen to the priorities of the community. I don't know how to connect to that. I just don't know how to do it.
 Well, ULI has done a meeting before. Maybe they can do another one. And we just need a date and then ULI can work on it. I don't know that's the case. It was not that simple to arrange schedules for getting them in the first place, which was one of the reasons it took 60 days, Councilmember Petty. I'm going to suggest that it might be as simple as turning on a microphone and then not cutting off the people of color who want to speak.
 How many, so would you have any kind of rules of engagement? I'm not sure I want to sit here on a Zoom meeting full of white people and write those. I just am expressing the fact that I really would love to do what the community would like and what you all would like, but you have not been instructive enough to me to help me understand how to conduct such a workshop. What dates are the agenda sessions this month? I'm sorry, what, Sloan? What dates are the agenda sessions this month?
 Well, the next agenda session would be a week from today. So I have those. So the next agenda session is going to be October 13th, then October 27th, November 10th, November 24th. I think we could do something on the 27th or if we want 13th, probably a little too soon. But if we're just going to open the mic and listen and give them three minutes and not cut them off, that actually doesn't take a lot of planning.
 No, if that's what you want, that doesn't take any planning at all. Yeah, if you just want to have a town homing where you just kind of turn everybody loose, we can do that. I would like that. I think that's a good start. So can I chime in? As far as the 13th might be a little close since we're just getting the rezone tonight. But the 27th, we might be able to have a conceptual a little closer. Would it kill us to have both?
 I'm sorry. Would it kill us to have both? Both of, oh, both meetings? Almost Town Hall on the 13th and then conceptual maps on the 27th. And so are there any other subcommittees scheduled for after the agenda on the 13th? I think we have water and sewer that night. We have water, sewer, solid waste that night. But I'm sure we can schedule it. This should take a priority. And I am chairman of that committee. Thank you, Mark. So I would...
 on the ground rules, if you're just gonna let folks have an open mic to say what they want, then is that what we're gonna do? Just, and then there'll be no- I think we can have the date and then we might be able to have hopefully some ground rules by the 13th, but if we don't, then it's an open mic. Hopefully we can do better by the 13th, but I really want some dates.
 And I think the people that want to speak really want some dates. So if we're going to do, if we do something on the 13th, that would just be open mic. And then we're talking about maybe conceptual drawings on the 27th. That is, let's see, that'd be about...
 that'd be about 10 days um prior to when they're wanting to take it the conceptual drawings to the planning commission would that be would that be that gives them plenty of time to get feedback and incorporate that i mean architects are used to working long hours and short deadlines thank you so we're talking about a possible
 Lots of people are used to working long hours and short deadlines, Sarah. But I want to make sure that the city can do what we're asking them to do. And I think that's a fair question to ask. I don't think it's unreasonable to ask if we're going to have two meetings if we can actually pull it together. Okay.
 So, Wade, do you think that that's reasonable? Is that something that you can meet, or is that just impossible? I'd like to hear back from you. I think that we can have some conceptual drawings, like a conceptual site plan by the 27th. I don't think that we can have anything put together on the 13th. The roadway would still be very conceptual with some of the on-street parking.
 But yes, as far as the 27th goes. But I guess the second question is, if you had a lot of feedback on the 27th with your conceptual drawing, does that give you enough time to make changes, adjustments before the planning commission meeting that you're hoping to present much of this to? This is Garner.
 The purpose of the first meeting with this Planning Commission is to get their input. I don't think there's a conflict with input from the public on the 27th and then going to the Planning Commission because the first time we talked to the Planning Commission, we do not want to be in a position to ask them to make a decision. That's the whole point of the conceptual meeting. Thank you for clarifying. Okay. So.
 Mayor, can I say something and just express some concerns? I feel like there have been opportunities to express the public's view about this police station on numerous occasions through the through the.
 Through the online survey, people came out to the site, visit. There have been other opportunities where they've expressed their concerns about this. And if we're going to have an open mic, I really want to make sure that it's constructive, that there's not hate speech, that we do have some rules of order, and that it is a positive thing.
 uh, spirit, bringing together spirit, not just something where we burn the house down. I don't think that's helpful for really for anybody. And so if we go down that road, um,
 I would like us to develop something that's reasonable and not just a waste of our times or just not making things worse and fable. So those are my concerns. And I will say that I'm definitely voting for a police station at that location. Sure, I'd love to hear from folks, but I am solidly voting for that. And I just don't think much can persuade me to vote differently.
 The station that we have by the city hall is too small. It's too old, it was never designed. Obviously we have serious safety problems from the results of Stephen Carr's death last year. And we really need to, we need a new police station. This is not a waste of taxpayers money. And I'm sorry that people did not get out and vote or did not hear about the vote.
 but most of the people that voted wanted this 71%. That's quite a bit. So I hope we can move forward on this and get this going, but let's make our input constructive for the process and for our great city. Thank you. Yeah, I mean, I'm pretty sure all of us plan on voting for P1 tonight.
 We're just making sure that it moves forward. And if we have listened to most everybody, then the things we find out on the 13th would have already been in the schematics that we'll see on the 27th. And they wouldn't have to change a lot if we have already implemented that. And then maybe it doesn't actually change the schematics at all, but people that feel like they haven't been heard get to talk. I think we'll certainly hear from some people.
 And I think we're trying to do this in lieu of having three meetings. I mean, that's because we don't want to hold this up because that's what I'm being asked to do. That's what people ask tonight is hold this three times. So saying, OK, instead of holding it three times, which would push it back into December, let's do this in lieu.
 So, but, but council, I want to explain to you, if you don't have traces, right. If you don't have some sort of structure and some sort of rules, then the thing could just turn into could turn into chaos. And I don't think anybody wants that. I mean, I don't, I don't want that. I know you don't either. So I think we certainly need to have some sort of structure. I mean,
 I have confidence in our staff that they can do that. You know, even if it's as simple as a strengths, opportunities, weaknesses, priorities analysis, but really what I'm hearing over and over and over again from the community is that they don't feel like they're being listened to.
 And so we need to provide a venue to take public input at a point in time where it can translate into meaningful improvements in the quality of this facility. I mean, I am fully committed to building the new public safety headquarters in this location, but I want the community's feedback considered, right?
 because that is our opportunity to make this the best facility it can be and serve the community in the best way that it can. And I'm tired of having to explain it to everyone who sends me a message. I'd like them to know where we are in the process, how we got there, what decisions have been made and what haven't, and so that they can actually have an appropriate place to submit their comments rather than having to talk about larger issues on a rezoning.
 But, you know, and I also want to second Councilmember Petty's call for a community public safety plan. We need that. And so maybe some of the feedback that we get during these input sessions can help inform those discussions and how that process moves forward. But I think we all want this to move forward, but we need to do it with the buy-in and the input of the community.
 Sarah, Council Member Marsh, would it work if we took the instrument that we devised where we got the first round of feedback as the thing that we could use to generate the conversation and then just say these are the parameters that have been discussed, like we try to do with the online, and then just bring it real time? Is that enough of a...
 structure that would generate the conversation you're looking for. What was that? It was that questionnaire, the instrument where we took the parameters from the ULI workshop and we identified the purpose statement, we asked for people to react to that, and then we had the different parameters that were being discussed as the elements of what would make up the site and ask people to react to that. Did they respond favorably or did they have other ideas? What were we missing? Those kinds of things.
 sorry that was the structural thing that we just designed initially so i guess we could use that again yeah let's do that but include the community this time and make sure that that we've got the diversity of voices that that adequately represent our community so theoretically we could uh advertise that that instrument is is open again and then that we'll use that format of feedback
 when we have our open mic. Is that a good idea? Wait, what is the instruments that you're talking about? It's the questionnaire that we designed that went to the households that sat on the website for three weeks that provided the reaction to the initial question
 workshop, ULI purpose that you all came up with during that workshop. There was a purpose statement for this police station, and then there were different design parameters, basic concepts like Wade and the chief have talked about with respect to the positioning on the site for lead, setbacks for safety and security, all the different things.
 all the different things that went into the placement of the elements on the potential site. Yes, I'm looking for more of a more basic discussion and not talking about particulars on the site and almost the discussion that generated that statement in terms of identifying the priorities of the community rather than asking them to rank design features.
 What was just described sounds like a lot more talking and less listening, and I think we need to flip that around. Right. No, I didn't want to have anything to say. I thought we could open that instrument up and say, here it is. Respond to this. One of the cautions I would have on reposting that and providing that as the prompt is that we are looking at a neighborhood that we know has...
 perhaps more challenges with digital access than some of us, some of the folks who may have responded before, so. No, I mean, so we were going to, if you want it next Tuesday, I don't think we have much choice besides digital, Zooming, phone calls.
 We have talked about two and there is time to figure that out for the others. I think it sounds like we have got dates. I think the request was for a commitment of dates and then we can move on tonight. And like Sarah said, I think we can trust staff to come up with something that is going to work. I would strongly suggest including some dates.
 diverse voices maybe utilize the mayor's African-American Council for some input and bounce some ideas off of them in that process just to make sure that it's an inclusive process. But I think we're making this part way harder than it needs to be. I have a couple of comments. I've been pretty quiet.
 It was very important for me to hear what everyone was saying, public input wise. I'm going into this absolutely in support of the rezoning, having a public safety campus that's state of the art.
 and supporting our police to have a place that's a safe place to work. Everyone wants a safe place to work. And I think coming back to Chief Verdoll's statement that they need to be protected to protect the community is very important. And I would like to add an and.
 And we have an obligation to our community to have a relationship building opportunity and have it kicked off with a public input meeting.
 And I am sad that we, I don't know why or how, but somehow, it became into, the public input became solely the online survey. And I understand there was some hesitation about that.
 about why that is because we have this larger question that at some point we were going to have to face. And that is that some people are,
 and we all know this, there's some people who don't want any police at all. And I am not of that camp and it doesn't sound like any of the council members are, the mayor, you know, staff, but I think that they have, and if we had an opportunity where we said what does public safety look like in Fayetteville,
 or what is safety in Fayetteville for you, that could be a great general conversation starter. But I don't think it needs to be the end-all be-all, but I think it needs to be a continuing conversation, especially with the people who live in that community, especially if they are people of color who feel not safe. I'm very concerned about Ms. Jackson, who
 says she's going to go to work to teach and she's concerned and that that hurts my heart um and i and i hope that maybe one day i would like to to meet miss jackson and and introduce her to chief reynolds and and have some conversations there but when we have this kind of uh concern uh in our community um
 It just means we need to do other things. And I think we're trying to talk about, you know, race and safety and public headquarters, where in fact, you know,
 You know, it's too much in one conversation. You know, we have people on one side who are ready for the best police headquarters ever. And then we have people on the other side who, who just don't feel safe. And I think we have to acknowledge, take time to acknowledge each individual.
 And in respect and empathize for each side. Otherwise, you know, this isn't a place of we don't feel we can be heard. And so
 When we make the time to do that, which I think is what the effort in having the meeting, and even for me, even if it was just one meeting that says this is the beginning of a community conversation, and maybe even a community listening session that allows people three to five minutes with the same rules of engagement in the city council, and give people the mic.
 and say we're going to keep talking about public safety and develop this plan that that councilmember petty has discussed mentioned and then and have it as a parallel discussion that we will need the police headquarters we need it to be built yesterday and we want it to be
 state-of-the-art groundbreaking by listening because we are in fact engaging with those people we're making an incredible extra effort what I really would love is for the people who said that they're not feeling that they're engaged or haven't been listened to to please reach out to to chief of staff please reach out to the mayor please reach out to your city council members to
 to get involved and engaged. And if you know those people who are not at the table, please invite them to this meeting.
 So, so I would like to see both things, I guess, and then, and then, you know, we need to be for move forward with the police station. So I don't know what that looks like, but I feel like we need to look, we need to go back a few steps and just think about the broader conversation of the two camps that we're looking at. Hopefully I've said everything I need to say here. I'll think of other things, but for now I think that's good enough.
 So, Sonia, one of the things that you mentioned is that, you know, are you, are you, I think, I think probably the conversation needs to go on much longer than these two meetings, and it's going to be, it's going to be a lengthy, more lengthy process, and, and I think it would be, it would be fitting to have a, a long-range plan that involves the community, but we can't, we can't
 pull that out tonight so but uh but what did you say did you suggest one meeting or two meetings before sonia what yes yeah i mean i i feel like um that having one meeting is a good a good faith effort to can to get input on on the police headquarters but i guess what i'm saying is that
 I feel like there's a hesitation on, I don't know. I feel like there's a hesitation because there might be people there who don't want any police. And so I think what we need to think about potentially is to make the question of,
 broader, a 10,000 foot look down about what is public safety in Fayetteville look like for you and whether, and so it's not necessarily about the site, but it's the first kickoff to some type of safety in Fayetteville plan. Does that make sense? Yes, I think that's a good, that's a good
 idea there. Yeah, I like that. I like that idea, too. I mean, I think I think what's what also Sarah Marsh, Councilmember Marsh is saying is that and I completely agree. We're, we're trying to develop something for the community, except for the design brief from the designers standpoint hasn't included a
 the key stakeholders, which are those immediate neighbors and maybe some of those people that feel they have been left out. Even though from our standpoint, and I trust Chief of Staff Susan Norton that she has done her due diligence to send out the letters. And in fact, it is very difficult to reach a lot of people, especially during COVID. So can we do a second checkup
 try to do a general meeting and please the people who say that they were not included or feel like they're left out please invite and extend the invitation personal invitation when we set this meeting that way people can be at the table you know I'll ask Susan this I do believe that that you
 I'm trying to remember who the stakeholders were that were invited to our meeting, but they were, you know, they were people that lived in the area. They were the school. It was pretty. Right. Quite a few people were invited.
 not everyone could make it i suppose but quite a few people were invited to be stakeholders in that so that's true there were and i don't have the list in front of me but um
 the uli folks did a lot of invitations and were able to get some people in interview sessions that were not able to join during the workshop um so yes i mean the public school was there the university students were there um there were just different community members that um
 Chief Reynolds had worked with as partners in his community policing. So we tried to do a pretty broad brush of a lot of different stakeholders. But reaching every member of the community is always difficult, as Sonia said. Yeah, it's pretty hard in COVID times. And mailers don't work. And other than personal phone calls to every address, I'm not sure how to
 to make sure everyone hears. But if you set a date tonight and we have the first meeting as a general conversation where anybody who is listening tonight knows they can come and we'll go ahead and do the same kind of advertising we do for all the other meetings we do. By the way,
 it's pretty hard to get people out these days. So I don't know if you all remember just even when Yolanda was talking last week about the 30 days worth of CDBG public meetings that people had said they wanted to provide feedback for, but didn't come. So I'm not sure how to ensure that the voices you want to hear will actually come next Tuesday and the Tuesday after that, the 27th. But by golly, we have an open mind.
 We'll have an open mic and we'll control it best we can. Well, sounds like we have dates. I trust staff, I trust the mayor's office. I love working with this mayor. I know that this is difficult. I think we'll keep moving forward. We'll put it together. We'll put it together. So on that, I move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second.
 i think we're ready to vote aren't we smith yes gutierrez yes marsh yes kenyon yes eddie yes scroggins yes bunch yes turk yes
 And your ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-011 located northeast of Dean Street and Porter Road for approximately 11.6 acres from RA residential agricultural to P1 institutional. Okay, I guess we don't have any more final comments. Karovich, please call the roll. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Church? Yes. Okay, what announcements do we have? None. Okay, thank you all. We're adjourned.