All right, I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of October 17, 2017. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business may have denied. We have an agenda addition. The following item was tabled indefinitely on October 3rd, 2017 City Council meeting. Aviation is requesting this item be removed from the table and the resolution amended. New information regarding this project will be emailed prior to the meeting. the october 17 2017 city council meeting the resolution reads resolution authorized the application for an 80 20 matching grant from the arkansas department of aeronautics in the amount of 148 720 dollars rehabilitation of the terminal parking lot at drake field i will entertain a motion to take that item off the table sarah so moved yes we have a motion in a second to take The item off the table. Will the mover and seconder please put their motions in? Thank you. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay. Good evening, Mayor, Council. I appreciate your consideration on this. So the original reason for tabling this item was we were advised by the ADA. You might introduce yourself. Oh, I'm so sorry. I'm Summer Fallin with the Fayetteville Airport. Sorry. The ADA advised us that they would be unable to reimburse the personnel and equipment costs for this project. A little back story is that the Transportation Department at the city would be responsible for the labor in this project. So then we asked that the item to be tabled so we could have further discussions with them To see how we should move forward after discussions with the ADA It was determined that the city would be responsible for the personnel and labor costs which we were aware of But that would be considered our 20% obligation of that Of that grant versus that being our obligation and then it being 20% thereafter which brings which brings the total to uh forty five thousand dollars city contribution with the total of the grant being a hundred and eighty thousand nine hundred dollars this will be the resurfacing of the drives of the airport in the first two rows of the parking and then resurfacing of the additional two rows the closest to the road okay um sarah what questions do you have sorry sure So the only real change here on the resolution is just in the amount. It went from that $148,000 figure to $135,900. That is the only change in the resolution, but we needed a motion to amend it to that amount. Okay. Allen. So moved. Justin. Second. Okay. We have a motion second to amend from $148,720 to $135,900, correct? All right. Any discussion on that? Any public comment on that? Bring it back to the council. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Long? Yes. All right. Back to the... What are the questions do we have in the council? Don. Mayor, just want to remind the council that the reason we're bringing this forward is State Aeronautics Division is voting on this today, and it's contingent on your passing of it tonight in order for that funding to take place. This is revenue that is specific to this month and could go away in the next month. So by delaying it, we have the opportunity to lose that revenue, and that's why we asked you to pull it off the table tonight. Okay. Any public comment on this? We'll move right back to the council. Thank you. motion to approve the resolution second that motion we have a motion a second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council Sandra would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you thank you all right next order business we have tonight is consent number one approval of the October 3rd 2017 City Council meeting minutes Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of software on an as-needed basis from various vendors pursuant to a National Association of State Procurement Officials' value point cooperative purchasing agreement through April 7, 2018 and any future renewal periods. Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of computers on an as-needed basis from various vendors pursuant to a National Association of State Procurement Officials Value Point Cooperative Purchasing Agreement through March 31, 2020 and any future renewal periods. Number four, a resolution to approve Amendment to the 2010 and 2013 service agreements with neo gov incorporated any amount of twenty three thousand five hundred thirty dollars and fifty cents for the renewal of African track tracking and performance evaluation software licenses through December 15th, 2018. Number five. resolution authorized acceptance of a 2017-2018 selective track enforcement program grant in the amount of $122,600 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in a total amount of $17,300 representing donations received by the Federal Police Department and a contribution from the Washington County Prosecuting Attorney to the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force for support of rural officer expenses. Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of dispatch furniture for the Central Dispatch Center from XYBIX Systems, Inc., any amount of $133,889.24 pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council Quality of Purchasing contract. Number eight, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment Any amount of $92,454 to allow for the completion of restroom facilities, storage space, and an open classroom space in the fire department training grounds. Number nine, a resolution to approve task order number eight with Garver LLC and the amount of $27,600 to complete an energy assessment for the terminal building, terminal parking lot, and air field electrical vault at Drakefield. and to approve a budget adjustment number 10 a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of 5968 dollars to allow for construction materials testing and special inspections for the water sewer outbuildings construction and number 11 a resolution to approve conveyance of an electrical distribution line easement to ozark's electric cooperative Corporation across a portion of Bryce Davis Park to supply electricity for the for lights at the Iams dog park I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda thread councilmember March so moved Yes, second. We have a motion in a second to accept the consent agenda as read Sandra. Would you please call the roll? Yes Yes Yes, yes Okay, thank you all very much Under unfinished business, we have three items. Number one, a resolution to grant the appeals of city council member Sarah Marsh and to deny the Federal Housing Authority's application for a large-scale development. OK. Before we get into this tonight, I want to lay down a few ground rules. We're going to keep it to the UDC tonight. Has everybody got that? Council members and public. Kit has a list of the six items that Grants an appeal kit. Would you like to read those or do you need to well? I have supplied them to the City Council on several occasions. These are actually the ones that were Enacted and passed by the City Council as the only factor to consider in approving or rejecting a large-scale development and as I pointed out my memo to you that the vast majority of these are basically check the box and a The planning departments look very carefully at this, and they have fulfilled all of those requirements. There is one that is a little bit more subjective, and that's number four, which says proposed development would create or compound a dangerous traffic condition. For purposes of this section, a dangerous traffic condition shall be construed to mean a traffic condition in which the risk of accidents involving motor vehicles... is significant due to factors such as, but not limited to, high traffic volume, topography, or the nature of the traffic pattern. As I pointed out the last couple meetings to you and also at the Planning Commission level There has to be real facts to it's not purely subjective I mean, you've got to look at this and you have to have good reasons to support a decision of that magnitude But that gives you a little bit more discretion and the rest of them most of the rest of the factors are just stuff that the developer must do and and according to the Planning Department has done and So we are bound by that. The city council at this point with an appeal sits just like if you were on the planning commission. You don't have any additional powers more than what the planning commissioners have to go outside these rules and say, well, you know, because of the public comments or the opposition or because I don't like it, I think it's unfair, it's a bad project, that we're going to turn it down. That's just simply not something that the city council has said you can do. With a large scale development. And as I pointed out to you. Every one of you. When you came through orientation. The discretion that the city council has. Is in zoning. You have much discretion in zoning. When it comes to large scale developments. Preliminary platts. Very, very little discretion, almost no discretion at all. So I do hope we concentrate on the UDC factors only and not whether this is a good project or not. A lot of us have different opinions on that, but it's really that's something that the property owner has to decide and not something for the city. Okay, so I want, has everybody got that now? Let's keep it council members and public. Let's keep it on that topic, the UDC. Okay? And right now what we're looking at, I believe there is an appeal of a safety issue Sir, is that correct? And I will turn it over to you. Predominantly. I do believe that there is some question of whether they have violated a federal statute in authorizing the sale of the land. But we can't discuss that. Even though that would fall under Unit Subsection 2, the proposed development would violate a city ordinance, a state statute, or a federal statute. And I believe Kit's memo on that issue is clear. Well, in my opinion, I mean, certainly that is. I was referencing the August 1st memo that states that the PHA is prohibited from releasing the land on its own and all sales would have to be approved by HUD. To date, HUD has not approved the sale of the Willow Heights project. That is true, but Sarah is correct. That is one of the six factors about whether it potentially violated a federal statute, which is why I asked the Planning Commission to table it so I could get word from the local office. It wasn't as crystal clear as I would have liked from HUD. I kind of expected that. But in reading the two-page letter from HUD, they certainly said, I apprised them of all the facts as I knew them in my letter to them. And her letter was that it's not time yet for that, so it's not something that she thinks is a violation of the HUD regulations. Right. I'm gonna defer to them as the experts on that they know a lot more about the HUD regulations than I do and So that's why I felt like that's really not a very viable Condition, but certainly you can discuss it alderman. I mean Councilmember Marsh is quite correct. It can be discussed Okay, thank you i would like to i'm raising the objection on uh or the appeal uh starting with subsection four which is uh about will it create or compound a dangerous traffic condition and the proposed development more than doubles the number of families living on south wood which does not meet the city of fayetteville street sander standards neither does south washington avenue which is the only other exit from this development Increasing the number of residents dependent on walking in a neighborhood that requires walking in the street compounds an already dangerous traffic situation. And I believe in both the information from Commissioner Quinlan and Commissioner Niederman, we've seen multiple examples of the substandard infrastructure in the Walker Park neighborhood, which is resulting in a lot of people in the street. been going over there during different points of the day to assess what the street conditions are and I almost hit someone the corner of South Washington in 12th because there are no streetlights and there are no sidewalks so we are going to be more than doubling the number of homes in this area and as we saw from the recent traffic counts this development is much more pedestrian or i'm sorry the population that lives in this development is much more pedestrian dependent than our typical uh homeowner so um Then moving on to subsection 6, which was the developer refused to comply with ordinance or requirements or conditions of approval for on-site and off-site improvements. If you look at the packet of information submitted by Planning Commissioner Quinlan, you can see a really interesting email chain between the lawyer, Jim Crouch, and several members of the board saying, The lawyer specifically states ACA 14-169-235, that if the project was used exclusively for public purposes and not for profit, and he clarifies that this is a ground lease for a for-profit entity mostly owned by outside investors, that they would not be able to apply for, what do you call it? Apply for the infrastructure funding from the city of Fayetteville and yet there if you look in the email chain there is a very well documented strategize basically strategizing to deceive the city council and skirt the freedom of information laws specifically in an email march 22nd of 2017 from jim crouch to eric gold um talking about they talk about because of freedom of information laws i would be concerned if more than one board member approached the mayor at the same meeting and they go on to strategize how that they would send one member to approach the mayor to skirt the usual channels to achieve approval that did not happen it did not happen okay okay well it does look like they intended to okay so that is a concern and then final justification is issue number two or subsection two which is the proposed development would violate a city ordinance state statute or federal statute and I do feel like it is relevant that the Housing Authority Board has entered into a contract for sale without permission from HUD without permit or without approval from HUD and without meeting many of the conditions of approval HUD there was a failure to receive an independent appraisal the appraisal was actually commissioned by the potential buyer there was a failure to adequately notify the residents in a way that sought impartial opinions there is documentation of the Housing Authority Board transporting supportive residents to City Council meetings and overall they're not meeting the notification requirements and the public process and transparency that we expect of a public project. And I think it's our responsibility as city council members to send this draw back to the drawing board with a strong message that we want the Housing Authority Board to start over and engage stakeholders, especially the residents of this development in developing a comprehensive long range housing plan that meets HUD guidelines because their current plan does not. Thank you. Yeah, the council members. I'd like to, I guess, ask Andrew one question about that. Maybe I misheard you. Did you say that the city can't go into a cost share agreement with a for-profit entity? It says the statute exempts housing authorities. I think he was talking about the impact fees. I'm sorry, impact fees. Yeah, and that is correct. Obviously, cost shares we do go into with private developers in order, if it makes sense for the city, to expand a water main or something like that. Impact fees, which I originally thought that this was a public issue. low-income housing project and then discovered that no in fact 99.99 percent of the building would be owned by private investors for 15 years and that there were going to be more than a dozen market rate units built so not low income for that that's when I informed the housing authority that no they would not be exempt from any of the impact fees they did not meet the requirements of the code And I want to clarify, the email chain that I'm talking about, the attempt to deceive, it is about the attempt to show this as being a public project, a public housing and a nonprofit project. And that's what the email chain shows, when clearly their lawyers advise them that that is not the case. And yet they are strategizing to convey that to achieve these cost shares, which they were initially awarded. Okay. Anybody else? All right, I think the Housing Authority, would you like to? Everybody gets five minutes. Mr. Mayor, when we entered, we received a chap from HUD. What? Thereafter, every month we have a phone call with our RAD transaction manager. HUD personnel are on the phone call along with our consultants and myself. So HUD always knew that we were going to sell, our intent was to sell Willow Heights. Whether or not they approved it or not, they were always aware. When we have to present a financing agreement, included was the sale of the property, along with tax credits and with the loan. So HUD has been informed throughout this entire process what has been going on. As far as it being a non-profit, the Housing Authority, even though we are, if we enter into this RAD conversion, 99% ownership will be with our tax credits the people who buy tax credits, their purpose is not to get money, so that 99% comes to us. That rent's going to come to us, to the public housing. It's not going to go out to a developer or to the tax credit things. What they want is the credit for taxes, reduced taxes. So we do qualify for a nonprofit. So I just want to say, in our opinion, we do apply for that. As far as emails, I've got one right here that says FHA Director Denise Smiley needs to go from Ms. Sarah Marsh to Ms. Melissa Terry. So if we want to talk about transparency, I've got a few more I can bring up. This has been a witch hunt the entire time. The state of the project. I am going to say for the project. The state of the project. So you said stick to it, but we're still hearing stuff about the housing authority was not transparent with our residents. We have three residents here. We do have three residents here. So, you know, you tell us we can't talk about the circumstances between the sale, but then we see Ms. Marsh continually doing the same thing. Ms. Marsh, I think the city attorney said that we could discuss. We can discuss it, but you let your city council person bring it up. You can discuss it. I can discuss it now. Okay. Myself and Jim Crouch did nothing ever to deceive the city as far as impact fees. We went in, meetings with city attorneys several times. We went and talked to the city planning department, whoever we needed to do, and we tried to explain what was going on with our project. There was never any deception whatsoever in this project. I'm looking up here at your city plans. We will create opportunities for attainable housing. That's what we're trying to do. I see signs in the community says y'all means all. It doesn't feel that way. The Federal Housing Authority is trying to partner with the city in providing attainable housing. You know, we talk about transparency and there has been none. I feel like I've been attacked, the board has been attacked, but you know what? It doesn't really matter that you're attacking me personally because I'm trying to do what's best for the residents at Hillcrest Towers. The condition that exists now at Wood Street and Washington or whatever has existed there for a long time. The city could have taken measures already to correct the conditions of the street. Now, of course, you know, we were not awarded the tax credits, so we will have to apply again next year. And financing schedule is for November of 2018. So there won't be any extra traffic on those streets in the meantime. Plenty of time for the city to decide and direct the road department to start their project on that. We have spent a lot of money getting ready and trying to do this. As far as the appraisal, we have had the land appraised, and it came in less than what the seller offered to purchase the property for. also our tenants this buyer is going to allow our tenants to remain in place they're not gonna have to move next week he's willing to let him stay until we can get our application respond on our application once again so you know we've paid attorneys fees we paid architect fees everything and the city planner said that we've met every each and every one of those codes and being Here we are still. I'm just saying, you know, if you want to hear from our residents, transparency, they want to move. We have a few of them here. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? well just you got you got a queue up introduce yourself now here's the rules and let's get that going on the public comment everybody gets five minutes get one turn at the microphone unless the council makes a motion and a second to give you more time all right sure On the public comment, you have five minutes. You get one turn at the microphone. The council can ask you questions, but you get one time unless a council member brings you back up, keeps your comments to me. I was going to try and keep it just to the UDC, but it seems that we have gotten some e-mails involved now, so I think some folks need to respond to some of that. But, yeah. Give us your name and address, one time at the microphone, and stay on topic. Hi, my name is Nellie Ashley and I am one of the residents at Willow Heights. It's 10 South Willow Avenue, apartment 29A. So just hearing what's being discussed, I'll just keep it brief and keep it on topic. The transparency. I have received letters as a resident. It's a housing standard to send everything via mail. So I've been getting letters about the sale. I've been getting letters about this project. So I've been aware, even before the media and other parties have been involved, when friends and family who know that I live here have been asking me a lot of questions about it, what's going on. the same time learning about the project and also informing others because there's all kinds of with the public things get all twisted and stuff like that you know the traffic there's traffic everywhere because Fayetteville is growing So I know that you're concerned about that, I am too, but I also know that we need affordable housing. The housing that we currently have, it's old. It's not terrible, but it is an older building. And I trust that the Housing Authority has looked at all options, and this is the best one for all residents, including my neighbors who are children. families and so I just want to say that yeah the transparency has been there because they sent out the letters they have to anytime any kind of change or anything like that they have to inform residents via mail so you're saying you didn't know about this yeah I knew about it in fact other people when they read in the newspaper and when they start hearing about it or like did you know yeah I already knew about it like long before So there's been enough transparency for me to even explain to people who don't live there what's going on. And that puts me at peace because I know I'm not going to have to move right away. because that was one of my concerns too but after discussing with the housing authority what's the timetable and they told me what to expect then i was at ease also some of the aspects like moving because i am a single person so moving is a hassle and they did tell me that they will have someone to help me with that and explain the process even further because I also asked them since a lot of people are asking me questions hey are y'all getting questions too and that's when they said yeah do you have questions and what are you hearing so we were discussing that just so that my family and friends who are concerned about my well-being will understand what's going on too alongside with me just like any of your family and friends you know if you hear something about your relatives you'll want to work with them too So that's the transparency I just wanted to express. But personally, for me, it's... new place an affordable place all these apartments that's going up around the city they're nice they're great but the price tag is just a little bit out of my range and I really want y'all to understand with all these rules with all these regulations hey this is what y'all deal with every day but for me is where I live is what I deal with every day and I would like to see that change personally yeah but you know some of us can say well she's being selfish also my neighbors too because it's a whole community thing okay council member marshes question yes miss Ashley thank you for your input and I understand that they did send you quite a bit of notification in terms of letters what opportunity did you have to give feedback early on in the process before they decided to sell the development did they ask you what your priorities were for housing Well, they had planning meetings, but I do work. So there were times that I was aware there was a planning meeting, but I couldn't attend because I had work or had some other engagement. Okay, so you really didn't have a good opportunity to give your feedback early on in the process. But also, too, with working schedules, sometimes you just can't always make it to everything. But you did know about the meetings? Yes, I did. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Please just introduce yourself. Hi, I'm Vlad Tatter, and I live on Willow Avenue, 215. And I really just had two pieces of paper, about three, that I wanted to give to the city council. Would you hand that to the clerk, please? And I really had no real comment besides that. Okay, very good. All right, who else would like to address us? Thank you Mr. Mayor and the City Council. You might want to pull that mic down just a little bit. Thank you Mr. Mayor and the City Council. My name is Roslyn Renee Schaffner Turner. I grew up here. In fact, I live in Willow Heights. I had friends riding the school bus with me when I was even in elementary that lived at Willow Heights. So it is an older development. But the Fayetteville Housing Authority has been wonderful to me, and they gave me the opportunity to have a place to live and a roof over my head. I had to quit my job and take care of my mom, but I needed a small place in town, so I have that. I have enjoyed living there, but there are a few problems. There's like the molder in my bricks is just crumbling and the flooring is, it's just tough. But the housing authority has done everything to help and maintain it. But it would be a wonderful opportunity if we could have a new place. Some central air would be nice. We do have heat. But I would appreciate if y'all would. really consider giving my neighbors and myself an opportunity to have a new place to live. I have no vehicle, so I wouldn't be a traffic problem. I do have friends and family that come and pick me up when I need to go to places. So I just appreciate if y'all would consider helping my neighbors and myself. My two sons have moved away, so it's just me. And I'm a good resident, a very good neighbor, and I would appreciate if y'all would consider us because we do matter. So you do favor the project. I would miss the scene because I think I can see Fort Smith from my place, but I love the old courthouse clock at night. I like to sit out and look at that, but I would appreciate a new place. Yes, sir. All right. Any questions? Yes, sir. Sarah. Thank you for your time. Hang on, Sarah has a question. Yes. I understand that the existing property is in poor repair and that you really need central air and a lot of other things. But I also hear you speak fondly about the neighborhood that you're in and the place that it occupies. You know, they could... The studies that they did showed that they could completely renovate the facility where you're at and make all of the upgrades that you talked about desiring for one-fourth of the cost of building the new units down at Morgan Manor and that they're not actually adding additional affordable housing units. They're just replacing the existing units. So if we were able to renovate the existing place where you already live and make it nice and bring it up to standards, would you want to stay there? But where would they live while you try to do that? Well, we would have to relocate you, but HUD requires that you be provided with relocation assistance and that they would help you find a place to live during that temporary time. So you would be protected and have a place to live while those renovations occurred. Well, I personally would only want to move once, so I really would appreciate if y'all would consider letting us have a new place and just make one move. I don't have much, but just for me and myself, I would prefer just one move. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi, I'm Karen Coker, and I live at 1041 West Montgomery Street. My daughter lives at Willow Heights. She's in apartment 22B. And for her, the safety issues, she doesn't have a car, so it's on me. And in the wintertime, you're not getting up there. From the bottom, you have to try to walk up the hills. That's impossible to get to my daughter. She has three small children. Two of them have fell down the stairs from the second floor, down through the apartment. Multiple bruises, no broken bones or anything yet, but that to me is a safety issue. These are my grandkids and my daughter, and they've lived there for about a year. This development would be awesome for her, to have a one-floor apartment. to be safe in a safe area close to where I am, that's perfect for me and my daughter. And she's all on board for it because I've read the papers she's got from the housing development. She didn't understand it, but I told her, they're not gonna throw you to the streets. They're gonna get you a place to live and hopefully this will pass so they can have a better place over there. That's all I have. All right, sure. Thank you. When your children fell, or your grandchildren fell down the stairs, was that a result of poor maintenance or something on the part of the staircase? It was the staircase themselves. Okay. They're outdated. Right, and you recognize that the new place will be a three-story building with only external stair circulation. That's why I'm on that part, because we're not going to turn the kids loose to run up and down the stairs. In the apartment, they have freedom to run up and down the stairs, and they are safety issues. They have little metal strips on the bottom of each step. that they hit when they come down those stairs. So we understand that. I would opt to have a lower floor for her, but that's what she gets. Whatever she gets, that's what we go with. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Kuhn. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good afternoon, Mayor Jordan. My name is Bill Reagan, and I am a resident of South Fayetteville. So we can talk about... Anything now? Looks like the wheels have kind of fallen off. Well, I tried to keep it to a certain topic, but it would appear that things have been brought up that needs to be addressed. I understand. Okay. The new estimate for Morgan Manor is to jump from $6 million to $8.65 because our city has withdrawn its support from this project. And with that, FHA will now have to pay impact fees and probably... won't receive any cost share from the city on drainage and storm water issues and problems with traffic in the immediate area. The traffic problems are pretty much pedestrian. I live there, I travel there every day. There's only one sidewalk on Washington, one on College. There should be sidewalks on both sides of the street. There should be sidewalks on connecting streets. In the mornings, when it's school bus time, You have to drive out in the other lane to avoid hitting the kids waiting for the school bus. On our way here this evening, we had to drive out in the middle of the street because two boys were walking in the road because there was no sidewalk. Let's please take first steps first and get their infrastructure ready and then get a common sense approach to what we're doing with the Willow Heights. A no vote on this doesn't mean that you don't support public housing. It means that you support a stronger and more transparent FHA administration. Thank you. Thank you, Bill. Do we have any questions for Mr. Dragan on this? All right. Thank you. Thank you. Andrew, do you want to address any of this? I think, you know, there's been questions about the sidewalks, and I probably should have had you address this probably a little earlier. Yes, Mayor, we did talk about this at the previous meeting, so I don't want to. talk about it too much but just to reiterate that from the City Development Services Department we have reviewed all of the codes including pedestrian safety traffic safety and we found that the project meets all of the development codes we feel like the project would not create or exacerbate a dangerous traffic situation and I did want to add one more additional piece of information for the council to consider. It's not the development code, but when the council adopted the Walker Park Neighborhood Plan in February 2008, we did talk about and look at how Morgan Manor would be expanded, and you can see here, the image here shows Morgan Manor would be built out in the future a potential image of how it could happen and it's very consistent with what is proposed with this Project so we we have anticipated development in this area and we feel like with the additional connectivity through the project and widening Wood Avenue It would actually improve overall traffic and pedestrian safety for the neighborhood if the project gets built. Thanks We have a question I don't but Planning Commissioner Niedermann had prepared a presentation for our capital improvements discussion specifically relevant to the state of the infrastructure in the Walker Park neighborhood and I think it would be very relevant to hear that presentation at this time because it talks a lot about the Sidewalks and the goals that were set in that plan in the transportation goals and it notes how many of those we've actually accomplished or invested in in that interim period and The answer is very few So while I do understand this was the long-range plan, we have not done, we as a city have not made the appropriate investments in Walker Park area to support the increased traffic density that this development would bring. Commissioner Niederman. So, well, I, will I take a motion for presentation? We'll take a motion. Yes, according to the rules recently adopted by the City Council to, for their meetings, it says a simple majority of the City Council members present and voting may authorize a representative of a Fayetteville Citizens Group opposing the ordinance or resolution to present electronic visual aid not to exceed five minutes, but no other electronic visual aid presentation will be allowed. Um, it did, you know, at, at the point that this was passed, it was anticipated that it would be a citizens group that was opposed to the particular resolution or ordinance being presented. Of course, this resolution is in favor of an appeal to deny development. Um, but, uh, I'm going to leave it up to the city council to, uh, be their interpreter of, of their own rules. And if they think that this rule is applicable, uh, to Mr. Niederland, who is a citizen, to present electronic visual aid, then that's what you all can do. It doesn't sound like it meshes exactly with our language because that was adopted when we were looking at other projects and where we had opposition citizen groups to a certain project that came in, and so it was adopted in this manner. But I will also leave it up to the city council to decide whether or not they want to allow a visual aid. These are your rules. And I would also note that Planning Commissioner Niederman is a resident of South Washington Avenue and has been very involved in several of the neighborhood organizations such as Energize Southside. So I move that we allow the presentation. Mark. I will second that motion. All right. Motion is second to allow. Thank you. Does that mean that the presentation will be also at the CIP, or is this going to be? I think that we only need to hear the information once. All right. Thank you. Motion and second for Mr. Niederman to bring his presentation forward to the council. Now, Adele. Do we know how long the presentation is? Yes. It may not exceed five minutes. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Senator, would you please call the roll? Right. Yes Yes, yes Thank you South Washington Ave I Was kind of hoping you'd say no because I was thought it'd be easier to speak later not be in the hot seat I'll do my best so In 2007, residents, city staff organized the Walker Park Neighborhood Plan. It was adopted in 2008. It won the award, Walker Park Plan won the 2008 Arkansas State Planning American Planning Association Award for Comprehensive Planning. And I would say that this neighborhood is blossoming thanks to the vision of the staff, elected officials and resident participants. And I also would say that the – would add, too, that the city is really blossoming as well, thanks to your leadership up there as well. What I wanted to just bring your attention to is in the Walker Park plan – or in Walker Park since the master plan was – adopted we've seen 70 new infill single-family homes have been built or are under construction accounting for 12 million dollars in building permits there's also been 128 construction permits for garages renovations additions demo accounting for 1.8 million There's been numerous other projects that are in the planning phases and county records show that value has increased from 55 million to 71 million from from 2007 to 2017 but in in the Walker Park plan it says the implementation of will only occur through cooperative efforts among the city residents business owners and the nonprofit sector and the private sector and I would like to say the Residents and private sector have invested heavily in this neighborhood, but public investment has lagged with Roger infrastructure In the plan there were there were highlights for short term midterm and long-term projects that would Ideally be put in place So if you look up here In the short term a lot of it was done. There was neighborhood was rezoned. There were a lot of great new zoning codes that some of you were involved in and You know a couple things haven't been done In midterm though, I want what I really want to talk with about right now is if we could go to the next page Adding or repairing sidewalks along existing streets within the neighborhood so Wood Avenue between Huntsville and 7th was not done, has not been done. So we're now at year 10. We're at the end of year 10. And so we haven't seen sidewalks there. We haven't seen sidewalks, Locust between 7th and 9th, 11th Street between College and Washington, Ellis Street east of College Ave. The only one sidewalk has been completed. That's Mooringside between Fair Lane and Huntsville. And so, you know, there's big plans for – Long-term projects as well. We're not there yet. So I won't hold you accountable for that right now But I guess what I would would like to you know You can consider is as as we look at, you know, the projects that are moving forward. There's Willow Bend Potentially Morgan Manor that that the city looks you know, there's there's a lot of development pressure here and that as as we as we think about as projects moving forward that the city council really takes a good hard look at the the state of the infrastructure i think on the next page you'll see uh you know there's so many people here walking in wheelchairs i take these just as a you know every time i see see people walking in the street um and and i just want to really impress upon you that that um you know it's it's The streets are not up to standard and the city really needs to look hard at that as we look at future development here. So that's all I have for now. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address us on the Morgan matter? Mayor Jordan, my name is Melissa Terry. I live at Wood Avenue. Thank you. I'd like to speak on a couple of points that refer back to the UDC framework. Mr. Garner, do you mind bringing up the image that you posted at the last meeting of the east side, ingress and egress, the traffic picture? Sure. Sure. So in this image, you see that the Wood Avenue exit and entrance strategy, part of the traffic flow that's anticipated goes through Nantucket. which is a senior retirement community, also heavily pedestrian. The other outlet is McClinton, which has zero sidewalks. It's double-ditched on either side. And then Wood Avenue, the street I live on, has a one-side sidewalk. which is not ADA compliant. So we're in the same situation as Washington Avenue. So in that regard, I would just say that the pedestrian and traffic concerns are fairly consistent all the way around this property. Per a commissioner or council member Petty's request, we actually did a door to door assessment at Willow Heights to determine the ratio of car ownership to not car ownership And so we found that about half of the residents, on average, do not have vehicles, so over 18. So that does imply, you know, just per the way the data goes, that we will have a higher than anticipated additional pedestrian load. There's been some comparisons with Willow Bend. which I would say that that is an additional development, but the difference is that there was an extended public process with Willow Bend, and we had lots and lots of public input, and that Willow Bend is a neighborhood of choice. So residents choose to buy there, choose to live there, whereas the proposed expansion at Morgan Manor would be you will transfer here. So that choice is a missing piece in that. And then to the question about what would happen if we were able to successfully revitalize Willow Heights. So per the question about relocation, in doing a literature review of similar communities in these similar situations, because our... Our housing authority is doing the best they can, but they're also in line with communities all over the country facing the same discussions. And so from a peer review standpoint, we have really good examples of some communities who do a master plan for the revitalization, and then they have a rolling renovation. So nobody is ever dislocated. So, for example, at Will Heights, I believe there's four, maybe six units that are empty now. So if we had a master plan for revitalization and we were able to access some of the home funds that are available now through ADFA, then we could revitalize those unit by unit so nobody would ever have to be displaced. So those are my comments. Thank you very much. Hang on. Melissa, so you're saying that you could— redo the apartments one at a time. That is a model that is consistent across some of our more progressive peer communities. Okay, hang on. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address? Mr. Mayor, my name is Mike Emory. I'm currently the chair of the Housing Authority. First off, I want to thank you for allowing some of our residents to speak, you know, a little off topic, but they came here specifically wanting to express their concerns. i want to address a little bit more of what you were worried about last time um just want to reiterate the fact that city staff said last time and tonight that we would be improving the situation there as far as traffic concerns ms terry just addressed that our residents per capita have fewer cars than the average neighborhood this city has always talked about wanting to be walkable and it was brought up that it was the city who failed to do the adequate infrastructure in the area per the master plan for the area. So why should our residents be punished to living where they are now? Because the city failed to uphold that part of the bargain. Also, with the traffic, I got with the police department and got a traffic accident report for the last year for the Morgan Manor area. There is only about a dozen accidents, which is on par with any neighborhood in a year of time frame in this entire city. So if we're bringing in fewer cars into an addition than an average neighborhood, I don't see how that would be much of an impact as far as traffic goes. Addressing the photos that were displayed about people walking in the street, you can see in all of them, well, I shouldn't say all of them, in most of them, there are sidewalks present. You can't force people to walk on a sidewalk, especially if they're blocked by cars. One of them, you could see there was a scooter parked on the sidewalk in one of those photos. And as far as being in the Morgan Manor neighborhood, we have no way of knowing those people walking in those pictures were residents of ours. So it's kind of implying that our people would add to a problem when you don't even know that that's actually the case. I think that's about all I was wanting to address. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Who else would like to address us? Hi, I'm Rachel Lester and I live at 12th and South Washington. Right across the street from my house is the 12th Street Apartments, which are Section 8 housing. Behind those are Morgan Manor, that area. Today for instance, I was trying to get from my house at 12th and South Washington to my colleague's house on South Wood. South Washington was a, I mean it was a maze because there were so many vehicles parked on the road with pedestrians, with development work being done. It was, you had to navigate both sides of the road in and out already. I believe my house was in one of those pictures and I can tell you that The pedestrian traffic is heavy in that area, especially with children after school, before school. I have two little boys. I know the moms on my street that have children, and they worry about the safety of their kids. It's not always a choice if you can walk on the sidewalk. For instance, my neighbor across the street that has the electric wheelchair can't use the sidewalk. She has to use the road. already. So I feel like if there are already issues in terms of safety with the residents that already live there, and you're talking about an additional 58 units with Morgan Manor and then another 85, I think, with Willow Bend, you're looking at... some serious issues for pedestrians. And especially if you're looking at half of these new places at Morgan Manor being pedestrian, and probably more than one, they're not a single person, they're gonna be families. So you're looking at that increase of people and traffic and pedestrian needs in that area, that doesn't, it doesn't seem like that would be a very safe plan. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Everybody come up to the mic and introduce yourself. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. Unless somebody brings you up, hang on just a minute. Anybody else from the public like to address us, please come up. My name is Chris White. I'm a vice chair on the Housing Authority Board. And just being part of this process for the last few years, I can tell you we worked really hard every time we – every time for that matter that we make decisions that we always consider our tenants what's best for them and you know if this large-scale development dies on the fact that there's a traffic issue or that there are sidewalk issues. I know that if Google wanted to put a large scale development in South Fayetteville and provide jobs, that we would do our best as a city to get those sidewalks built, to make those traffic problems smaller, just so that we could have that, Google come in and put offices in or whatever. But these people want air conditioning. They wanna be able to walk to the store when it's snowing outside. Really simple things that we take for granted and that's where we made our decision. And we made our decision from the fact that we get less and less money every year to do things with more and more properties that are getting older and older and older. And you know, it just, it's emotional for me and frustrating because we're just citizens that volunteer to do our job to look at these things and make the best decisions that we thought possible. We didn't collude with anybody to get millions of dollars. Our meetings are getting longer and longer and longer because of this. So we're having to invest more and more time with these people that we want to see just have a little bit better housing situation. So I ask that you look at those things when you make your decision tonight. Okay, thank you. Any questions? Okay, who else would like to address this? My name's Carmen . I live at Nantucket. You should pull the mic down just a little bit. Thank you. And what's your name? I'm sorry, your name is? I live at Nantucket. I walk through Morgan Manor two and three and four times a week. There's nothing wrong with Morgan Manor. When I, to save myself a few steps on Wood Avenue, I jumped the ditch just to save a few steps and I go over and walk through Morgan Manor, go into the Senior Center, okay, and I walk through there coming back and the next day I do the same thing. I have to jump a ditch because Wood Avenue needs to be larger. Otherwise, I have to walk down to the school for the head start and walk the sidewalk all the way. I save myself a few steps by jumping the ditch, but if there's water in the ditch, I can't jump it. I have to go down to the sidewalk. But there's nothing wrong with Morgan Manor. And you know, sometimes people find themselves in a situation that they have to live in lower housing. I was living in Kansas City, married, married, Owned my own house, had it nice, and I went through a divorce. I came down to Fayetteville because all my family was down here, and I didn't have any choice but to go through low housing. I thank the Lord for low housing because I don't make the kind of money that I can live anywhere else. So I'm just saying that there is sidewalks through Morgan Manor because I walk them two and three and four times a week. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, I'm Quentin Childress. I'm a student at the University of Arkansas, and I grew up going to Morgan Manor, or I lived in Morgan Manor, and I lived in Willow Heights. And all the issues that it sounds like, you know, it sounds to me that whenever I was living at Willow Heights, that it just seemed neglected. So, like, the thing is, like... I believe that whenever I was there, you know, we were having the same issues with the railing. We were still having the same issues with the air conditioning, central air, and, like, all those same issues. And I lived there 15 years ago, and I grew up from the age of 7 to 15. And I just wanted to say that, like... I just don't understand how this is still a problem if we have those funds. If we're putting all this attention into trying to move this from Willow Heights to Morgan Manor and completely isolate these people, why can't we refocus that? Why didn't we refocus that tension on trying to revitalize the Willow Heights? But instead, what I see is neglect. Someone was neglecting and someone wasn't doing their job. To me, I personally believe that if you stay in Willow Heights, you have all the endless opportunities, but versus wherever you go, it's Morgan Manor, which you're just isolated and you're not accessible to all these places, all these opportunities. For example... I grew up in Will Heights. I had access to the Yvonne Richardson Center, and then I had access to St. James United Methodist Church, and then those opportunities opened endless doors for me. Whenever I was over there at Morgan Manor, I just didn't have anywhere to go. I mean, we had Marvin's IGA, but the thing is, like, it was sketchy. It was definitely not safe to walk at night, because I know for a fact that whenever I was living in... living at Morgan Manor, I had to walk everywhere. We didn't have a car growing up, right? So I had to walk to Ramey. I had to walk to the mall if I wanted to stay cool with my friends. I had to walk to the Boys and Girls Club sometimes whenever the Yvonne Richardson Center wasn't open. I had to walk everywhere. And what was so frustrating was that it just was not safe. And as a matter of fact, I got hit by a car while I was walking towards going to practice at 5 in the morning So, I mean, to me, like, honestly, I feel like whoever's in charge, whoever was supposed to, you know, revitalize Willow Heights, they weren't doing their job. And I'm not, like, trying to diss anyone, but these same issues that are being raised today, they were the same issues 15 years ago. And to me, that's just unacceptable. And, like, we wouldn't be running into these same issues if someone was doing their job. So that's all I have to say. All right, Mark, I believe you have a question. Mr. Childress, actually what I've got to look at, because I do want to stay in the guidelines of the Unified Development Code, and so you had the opportunity as a pedestrian and you saw the traffic patterns and the accessibility. You have a very unique point of view as a youngster in these areas, and would you say that... Willow Heights was safer from a traffic and pedestrian point of view or Morgan man manner is safer. I'd say Willow Heights is definitely safer Okay, if there were improvements in Morgan Manor, that's what we're talking about. I mean no improvements in Morgan Manor Would you say because of this surrounding area and where it's located? that there would not be an improvement to the I guess I'm looking at safety. Would the safety issue still be your concern? Of course, and thank you for asking these questions because I totally forgot. I actually go to Walker Park all the time. I play basketball every single day. I hit up my friends. We go play all the time. I was just talking to Ms. Connie to replace the light over there. And I forgot to tell you guys that my friend, I didn't bring her up, but she was my best friend growing up in Morgan Manor. And what she's experienced, what she told me was that, like, after one night we were playing basketball, we come back. I tell her I got to go home. Like, we went different directions. Right. And then the next night, like, I called her. I texted her. I was like, hey, how are you doing? Like, what's going on? And she didn't respond to me. And so the next day, like, she finally, like, contacted me, and she said she needed to talk to me. I was like, okay, what's going on? And so then what I found out was after she was leaving Walker Park, someone pulled her to the side, and they molested her. And that right there just – Now, Mark, hang on. Mark, you asked a question, and there was about a minute and 30 seconds left when you asked the question. I'm going to line one more minute to finish. If you want to give me more time, I need a motion and a second from the council. I'm talking more about traffic safety. Yeah. Okay. And, listen, I understand. That is— It's not. A horrific area. Or a horrific story about something that happened in that area. But that's not what we're talking about tonight. We're talking about traffic. And does this exacerbate a traffic situation in this location, in your opinion? Because you've walked both of them. Yeah. And let's look at these two specific developments. Okay? Okay. And I would say that, like. One minute. Okay. One minute. One minute. Oh, no, I would just say that, like, just knowing, like, the traffic over there, just, like, experiencing it. And then, like, even with the improvements, I don't think that it would be better. I personally don't think that because I'm there every single day. Like, I go there. You're still there. I'm still there, yes. I go there every single day. I go play basketball. I still go down to the Yvonne Richardson Center. I still walk those streets. I'm still a part of the community every single day. And I would honestly say that it would not help. Thank you. I really appreciate your point of view. Thanks for being here. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who would like else? Hang on, Denise. Everybody gets one turn to the microphone, but somebody can bring you back up. Hang on. Let me get the rest of the public comment here. Who else would like to address us? Well, come on up to the microphone. No, no, please, you've got to come up to the microphone. Introduce yourself. Okay. I'm Kyra McCown, and I work for the Fayetteville Housing Authority, and I have been there for a long time. When Bromo Wilson was there as the executive director, I had begged him and begged him to do repairs on it, but we don't have the money. When Freda Solwin came on board, it has always been we've got to redo these apartments and we have looked at every option. We have hired five different consultants and they all come up, we have to sell Willow Heights. That was the first of the five, that's what I got. There's no way to fix Willow Heights up. If you do any major rehabilitation, it has to then go to 100% ADA. Not even for the people there, but people to come and visit, and that's where the impossibility lays. But I was going to bring Denise Smiley up. Well, what now? Denise? No, we can't do that. We can't pass the baton. Okay. Stay with me here. Do you have anything else? No, that's all I want to say, that I know that we have been working on this problem for a long time. Okay. Mark? Oh, okay. All right. Sarah? Yeah. What percentage of the new units will be ADA accessible if they are enabled to move to Morgan Manor? Five percent is what the... Five percent of the new units will be ADA accessible. Right now at Willow Heights we have... Zero. Okay, but we do have available land, or we do have other ADA accessible units in our affordable housing inventory. I believe at the one over Lewis Plaza and Hillcrest Towers as well. Lewis Plaza has zero. Okay, but Hillcrest Towers? Hillcrest Towers. So we do meet the threshold for ADA accessibility. That is zero bedrooms, you know, too. Thank you. Thank you. No, no, no, you don't get to pass your time. You can stay with me another three minutes, or if you're done, then. Okay. I can't bring her up? No, you can't bring her up. Okay. I'll try. Y'all work with me tonight here. All right. Who else would like to address us on this? Hello, my name is Erica Wilhite. I live on Southwood Avenue. I've been following this topic of conversation, community issue, since it's come up. And I'm still here to ask you to please revitalize Willow Heights. I'm hearing a lot of people say why they need to move, and it's pitiful. It is pitiful that their homes are in that state. It is unconscionable that they don't have air conditioning and that units were removed. There are all sorts of reasons why or why not, but I'm just asking you, instead of moving everyone to Morgan Manor, to revitalize the housing there. Living on Wood, I recently moved there in September. I've lived downtown and I work in South Fayetteville. I do have that unique perspective now, and I am actively dodging cars. I'm seeing children hang out in the streets for the bus stop. And I'm taking the bus around and I'm seeing that there's not, and I'm experiencing there's not any sheltered bus stops. And the bus stops aren't, the bus isn't that regular. And living in that part of town is not as easy as it is living in this part of town. And so I'm speaking about the walkability. So yeah, there's half of the residents moving from Willow Heights have cars. I'm worried about the traffic. I'm more worried about the people getting around for their needs without their cars. So I don't feel like the infrastructure is ready on that side of town. I know that for a fact. It's easy for me to jump in my car and go up to the neighborhood market. It's not as easy for my neighbors, not all of them. Thank you. Can I ask you a question? You said about the bus stops. There was concern about the bus stops. Where are the bus stops? Well, there's a school bus stop on the corner of Wood Ave and 7th. and they literally just hang out with their legs in the street. There's a mirror there because there's a visibility issue. So I never feel safe with my daughter down that street, and so we just stopped. Now when we go to Green Goat, we go around the block and we're literally steps away from it because there's not a sidewalk. Okay. But there is a bus stop on Wood? There is a school bus stop on Wood. All right. I asked twice to make sure. Are you waiting for the school bus? Yes, I am. So, yeah. Okay, Mark. Ms. Wilhite, again, we have to talk specifically about the safety of a new development, and does it exacerbate a traffic concern? That's how I'm looking at this, because I'm trying to stay in the rules here. Can you tell me specifically, from your point of view as a resident and a person that – traverses in this area that by we can't talk about anything else by adding additional units also additional accessibility you've seen the map for Nantucket that's east and west that in your opinion it still exacerbates a traffic issue and a safety issue that is my opinion it still exacerbates I Give me a point further about how you establish your opinion, if you don't mind. Yeah, yeah, I mean, I... I'm not trying to prosecute you or anything, I'm just trying to understand. I walk a lot, I walk to work, I work in South College, and so I also do the cut through Morgan Manor sometimes, and I walk a lot down Washington. And I experience on every single walk the zigzag of having to go around. And of course there's construction there right now, but there still aren't sidewalks. and the streets are really narrow. So in my daily experience in the neighborhood, I do feel it would exasperate our safety measures. I think that we wouldn't be able to, especially with the Willow Bend coming up. Like, I've looked at the maps, and I haven't studied it as deeply as you have, but I know just living there, it's going to be a much different situation. It's already... I'm saying it's already dangerous, and it feels unsafe there. So... Are you saying that it's going to be more dangerous when Willow Heights goes in? I believe so, yeah. Okay. All right. Who else would like to address this on this? Good evening, Council. My name is Todd Walters, and I'm a citizen here in Fayetteville. I see a lot of people talking, coming up, mentioning that they live on wood and talking about the problems on wood. But if my understanding is correct, this new development would actually widen wood, and take away that issue that they keep bringing up. It would also add additional sidewalks. Regarding resources near Willow Heights as opposed to Morgan Manor, I believe at the last council meeting, you guys were provided with a document showing what was closer, what was further, what was the same distance, and I'd just like to point out the Yvonne Richardson Center is actually closer to Willow Heights, or excuse me, Morgan Manor than it is Willow Heights. And regarding transportation, there is an ORT bus stop one block from Morgan Manor. We've talked with the schools. They have said that they would add a bus stop to Wood and McClintock once Wood was developed and widened as proposed. You heard that from the school? Yes. Yes. And we've also, I work at the University of Arkansas. We've also been talking with the traffic committee and the transportation committee about getting a possible bus stop, Razorback Transit bus stop in that area as well. That's all I have. OK, hang on, Todd. Who did you talk to at the schools? Is there? I don't remember the name. I can definitely get you that information. Well, that's good enough. All right, so you're saying that you talked to the schools and they said they would put a bus stop in McClinton. Wood and McClintock. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Morris. Yes, I would just like to correct. Mr. Walter said that the Yvonne Richardson Center was actually closer to Morgan Manor, and it's literally within a block of Willow Heights and considerably further from Morgan Manor, probably by at least half a mile. Thank you. A full mile. All right. All right. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Now. I'm going to bring up, and I have some questions for Denise Smiley myself. Do you want to come on up, Denise? I've got a few. What I'd like to ask is if Willow Heights was in the disrepair that it claims to be in, well, that it is in, I personally would agree with you. I think the housing is somewhat substandard, and it's been needed to be fixed for 15 years. Is that the number we're throwing around? Denise? Yes. 15 years? That's what I thought I heard someone say. No, she didn't say that. Oh, you didn't say that? She said they've had five consultants have looked at it, different consultants, and they've each come up with a plan to sell Willow Heights, and it's the best thing. So how long has it been in disrepair, would you say, in your estimation? Well... I've been at the Housing Authority since 2012. So I can tell you how long it's been in substandard since I came to the Housing Authority. So at least five years. Prior to that, if we've had consultants there who have been trying to do the low-income tax credit, this is the second time we have applied for it. So that was ongoing when I came in 2012. Okay. I think Mr. Kenyon was on the board, and in fact, they had discussed that it needed to be taken care of at that point as well. That it was in serious disrepair and something needed to be done to... I would like to know just how long it's been. Okay. Back when I was on the Housing Authority, we were applying for a lot of funds for repairs, and this is very evident... uh... with the improvements at hillcrest towers that was the most critical property at that time and using the same programs we did want to repair the other facilities there were improvements at morgan manor including some air conditioning but you have to remember we were in a different administration the funds are not the same as they were back then. So priorities have shifted, and that's why I have so much struggle here. And that's not why I'm not going to count that in my decision tonight. I'm talking about the Unified Development Code and the safety, because our housing authority has a struggle. And from my point of view of being the chairman of this housing authority, probably 15 years ago, this is a real struggle. Now, I will also say it has to meet standards. Ms. Smiley, you still have HUD come in and do an annual review of the properties. Yes. And what we know from these reviews is it does meet the basic standards, but that isn't good. That's called basic. But what I also know is the way it was managed back when I was there, we were in the top of the nation, which allowed us to get these federal funds. I don't know what they are now. But that's from my point of view and that's a concern I have, but it's away from this. This has nothing to do with the safety of adding a large-scale development on the south side of town. We must, as a community, somehow get better housing, whatever it is, for these individuals that are living in substandard housing. Now when I was on Housing Authority, and it's been a while, We did find the funds. We found the funds. We knew where the funds were. We beat the bushes. We did the best we could, and the improvements were historic at that time. I don't know what's out there today, so I can't answer that question. But I do know that if you have the will and if you have the community behind you, you can make the improvements on these properties or you can find better housing. That's so apart from what we're talking about tonight. But you asked my opinion, and I do have a very good insight from the years that I was on this commission, and it was probably the most eye-opening and challenging and heart-wrenching, but also the most beautiful and rewarding whenever I saw individuals have the access to housing, safe housing, that they otherwise would not have. Over the years, I know from whenever I was on it, These children that were there that I would I would I knew have had opportunities offered to them To improve their lives now that's beside the point here We need as a community to do that But tonight we're talking about are we exacerbating a traffic safety issue in this part of town and I believe we are Okay. All right. So Do you think that it is safer then at the Morgan Manor than it is at Willow Heights then? Well, I think each one of us can have a subjective view. And so, of course, my view is, yes, it's safer for them to be at Morgan Manor. In what way? Well, are we talking about traffic or are we talking about safety? Safety. Just traffic, safety. Traffic. Traffic is what we got to say. Okay. Well, first of all, Mr. Petty asked us to go to each and every one of the units at Willow Heights, and I did. You did. and I make copies of each one of those. I had each one of our residents assign and put the vehicles. So when you say have, this is the stack I have, and I want, and so don't take my word because I've made copies for all of you all. I've seen them. More than half, more than half of our residents, more than half, have vehicles. So you don't have a lot of people walking around. I mean, I don't know about, we didn't ask about how you take your kids to school or how old they are or whatever. So that was what Mr. Petty asked. He asked, he wanted to know that. So we did do that. Now, we had vacant units because... Staff issues, we're trying to get those, I mean, they're able to be rented. They're in that kind of condition, but we have to get them ready, got to get them cleaned, got to get them repainted, that type of thing. So that's why those vacant units, and so we don't have anything about statistics. The other thing is, at any point in time, these metrics are going to change. People are not going to, I mean, we could have people two years ago who didn't have any cars, but now they all of a sudden have cars. So how do you measure what potential is going to happen three, four years from now? Maybe three years from now, those roads will already be improved. The other thing about being forced to move to Morgan Manor, our residents are not being forced. If they remain, and I know, but it was brought up earlier, it's not about the Unified Code, but they can be transferred if they have asked for accommodations or there are safety issues or things. They can transfer to other units. They don't have to go to Morgan Manor. So it's not like we're forcing our residents. Once again, whenever you rent, you choose to rent where you can. So we're not forcing them to do anything. Okay. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you. All right. Any other public comments? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Andrew, let's start with you. I want you to tell us why you think that this, the improvements, what's the improvements that's going to go in over there? Again, I think getting back to the unified development code, the traffic situation at Willow Heights really has no bearing on the council's decision here. You're looking at this particular neighborhood, this large-scale development. Right. would this project create or compound dangerous traffic situations like cars running into each other, people getting run over by cars, things like that. As we talked about the last council meeting, Wood Avenue would be widened out to 28 feet wide. All the way? How far? Along the property frontage here. You can kind of see the cursor moving up and down here. This is the stretch where they have frontage on wood. They would also be adding a new sidewalk. And they would be the current plan is to fill in the ditch with storm drainage So you wouldn't be hopping over a ditch. We heard that from a citizen The other I think one of the primary improvements would be just improving connectivity You would be actually connecting these cul-de-sacs all together and then coming out to what Avenue so as far as you know emergency access and convenience for neighbors for buses trash uh... for whatever reasons being able to have another outlet today east and west through here will help existing neighbors in nantucket as well as uh... the neighbors here in morgan manor to get through this neighborhood safer and more efficiently and again comparing this neighborhood to other neighborhoods around town uh... actually has a very well connected grid of streets We have other projects where you don't have the bones of a street system where you have multiple opportunities to get around here. So there's a major construction project going on with Willow Bend, however, people are able to navigate through here. There's a lot of other projects going on, some of our other neighborhoods like subdivisions that have cul-de-sacs and things like that. If you have one of those roads blocked from a construction project, you're not able to get in and out if there is an emergency. I think from a safety standpoint, this project really does not create any dangerous traffic situation in our opinion. Okay. All right. I'd like to bring the fire chief up. I had a question for Andrew. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, Mark, go ahead. Or for the attorney. Yep. Again, help me understand this. Last time we talked about this, okay, all we're hearing from planning is cars, cars, cars, cars. But we can consider pedestrians, right? Think that's correct. If you just read what what you all have enacted a dangerous traffic condition shall be construed to me in a Traffic condition in which the risk of accidents involving motor vehicles is significant But even though if so not a pedestrian running into another pedestrian you couldn't consider that but of a vehicle hitting pedestrian I think that is something that could be considered. It must be involving a vehicle and So I think you can look at pedestrian safety. And that's what I'm thinking about as I'm looking at balancing this. Because from a planning point of view, and I have such respect for our planning staff, and we've heard it every time, it's cars, cars, cars, cars. But from a community point of view, from a neighborhood point of view, it's pedestrians and cars and the interaction between a pedestrian and a car as a safety issue. So I'm trying to stay within the law. I'm trying to stay within the Unified Development Code. I'm trying to be rational and only looking at a growth here on one specific project, right? That's how I'm going to be looking at this, and I just wanted to get that confirmed before we went to the next step. Okay? I would think that if there were accidents involving a pedestrian and a vehicle, it would show up on the police report. And, of course, we have had a report here anyway that the number of accidents around Morgan Manor were no more – not unusual for other developments. And so one thing that the city council really needs to look at is not just subjective statements from people or photographs, because you can take a photograph and, and maybe that's the only time that ever happened, or statements from neighbors, but actual more objective facts, I think, are more important, really, or should be more important for your final decision. You can certainly listen to neighbors, and I think that's important. You should do that. But you need to look at the objective facts, too, when you're especially in a situation when you might be thinking about turning down a large-scale development on that soil issue. Okay. Chief, could I ask you a question on that? With the connectivity through that and the cul-de-sacs going on the woods, does that make it better for the fire department? Worse? I think it does. Yes, sir. I think it does. Do you think it would make it? I think wider streets and more sidewalks and more connectivity in and out makes it safer than it is now. Yes, sir. Okay, so you would say it would make it safer and Yes, sir. All right Mike what about the accidents? I want to ask you about those How many do we have good evening mayor counsel? Mike Emory spoke on it earlier. I think he reported that we had approximately a dozen Two weeks ago Mary you asked me to go back and do a query I took the liberty of making the boundaries. I took the boundaries of the north being a Martin Luther King, the south being 15th Street, the east being Wood, and the west being South College. And when I took those parameters, and also when I went back 22 months to January of 2016, we had 13 accidents that occurred in those boundaries, in that box. Of those 13 accidents, I drilled down a little bit further into it. And when I drilled down further into it, I looked specifically at 12th Street. And we've had three accidents that have occurred on 12th Street or at the intersection of 12th and South Washington during that time frame. Looking specifically at those accidents, two of the accidents hit fixed objects. So one accident involved a mailbox accident. Pretty minor accident in our opinion. And the other one was a parked vehicle. And then the third collision and the most recent collision that occurred on September 16th of this year involved a two-vehicle collision. Minor damage. I think the total damage of both vehicles was approximately $2,000. Okay. Mark. Mark. Are there any pedestrians involved in these accidents in the report that you have? Do you know? During that 22-month period, I have no reported pedestrian accidents in that area. And I did have him run the accident report in my neighborhood, and we're sitting at 11. Or was it? That's correct, Mayor. We looked at the mayor's neighborhood over on the Custer Arrowhead, and when I ran that same 22-month period in comparison, we had 11 accidents. I also took the liberty to look at the Meadowlands south of Weddington over by the Boys and Girls Club. We had 12 accidents in that same 22-month period in that neighborhood as well. Okay, all right anymore any questions for the night, okay, thank you. Thank you All right, Matthew yes, thank you mayor I don't know that my comments will please anybody tonight, but I feel like I should say him anyway Well, I find myself a little bit disappointed in a couple of respects I think a lot of the discussion around this issue has been centered around trying to litigate whether or not the plan that's proposed is the best plan and maybe it is or maybe it isn't I'm skeptical that it is but it has nothing to do with the decision that's before us and so I'm frustrated that that continues to dominate the conversation you know I share some of the frustrations and some of the criticism in just particularly how open a couple of things have been about this process, but I don't share the criticism that there wasn't good faith, and I don't share the criticism that it's gone even farther than that and that there's been dishonesty. And so I've been really frustrated about that as well. You know, I read through... all of the Freedom of Information Act packets that have been circulating. And, you know, for instance, I don't agree with the claim that there's been some kind of conspiracy to avoid the Freedom of Information Act. You know, my reading of that kind of advice is the same kind of advice that I've gotten from our city attorney recently. that has been given to other commissions. I mean, what I see is a set of conversations describing how they're going to approach the city attorney about a particular inquiry and advice not to break the law when they do it by sending too many commission members. And that seems pretty darn normal to me. I don't think we're here either to litigate if a federal or state law has been broken. It's not in our jurisdiction to decide if there has been. And... If this large-scale development stands and HUD determines that the process hasn't been followed, then the large-scale development goes away. So I see that as being a normal process that will be followed to its conclusions when HUD makes a determination. And there hasn't been a determination, so, you know, again, it's not in our jurisdiction, and it's premature to consider it. Okay. I do believe that you know there the large-scale development as proposed There's probably some improvements that could be made to the plan But I don't have any doubt that the minimum standards have been met either That tells me that we need to revisit some things in the unified development code. That's nothing that is new information We've known that for a while so so last Knowing all that, that was how I felt last week or two weeks ago when we first discussed this. And thinking in that manner, my questions were about trying to establish some kind of differentiator or determine if there even was one that would set this project, this proposal apart from similar projects that are approved in the city in terms of creating a dangerous condition for pedestrians or vehicles. And I said at the time that I was extraordinarily cautious to do anything that would be inconsistent with other decisions. I mentioned Willow Bend because that's got more units and it's just up the street, but I was also thinking about other projects. There have been around about 20 single-family homes that have been built in this neighborhood so far, as we saw in a presentation earlier. And we expect to see many more single-family homes built down there. In aggregate, that total is larger than the unit count here, and we allow those to be built by right. You know, if we've really got traffic conditions that are as dangerous as are being suggested, I wonder, do we have to evacuate the neighborhood? And I don't mean that in any kind of funny way, even though it might be a glib way to put it. I don't think the safety, I think the safety concerns are present and legitimate, but are trying to be used as a fulcrum to accomplish something else. You know, I asked myself if we wanted to design a... transportation system that had as much congestion as we possibly could if we wanted to put ourselves through that exercise you know I think that we would we would make people work in one spot live in another and use the same roads at the same time to get from one place to another which is more or less the system we have in in I think if we're gonna go down this road of setting such a high standard of what means what it means to create or exacerbate a dangerous traffic condition then we have to look differently at projects we approve with many more units in other locations in town that don't have anything like a street grid or a trail network in a park that's three blocks away. Because surely they create even more dangerous impacts than this does. So all that's to say I don't see that there are grounds here to deny the project, even as I think that the process... It has some real weaknesses that should be addressed, and I think that criticism is legitimate and should be heard. I also think the project could be improved in terms of its architecture and site layout. But again, I think it meets the minimum standards. And more to the point, you know, fair market rents went down for the first time that anybody can remember this year. Fair market rents are what are used to set subsidy levels in voucher programs. So they went down, which means there's even less money to support projects like this. We've got a need nationally of about 120,000 low-income units across the country. We're building about 45,000 a year, and about 40,000 or so of the ones we already have lose their provisions and get converted into market rates. So we're more or less not really creating any new affordable housing as a nation. And to insinuate that... the housing authority has acted with some kind of malintent you know i i don't think anybody at the housing authority is getting rich off these programs um so i'm really frustrated that it's gone that far uh so so uh the only other thing i'll say is you know because um i think there is some valid criticism here even though it doesn't rise to the level of of uh our jurisdiction or uh denying the project at this time um i think we did take some action to address some of that criticism you know we put somebody on the board at our last meeting uh that that i think will be a watchdog um maybe in a way that is challenging for the current housing authority to deal with but that kind of creative uh uh creative disagreement I think will be beneficial to the Housing Authority in the long run and I think that was the balance move to make just as I think you know Upholding the Planning Commission's decision here is it's the balance move to make Again, even even though I think some of the criticism is fair and the project could probably be better Thank you i just wanted to summarize again that voting to support this appeal it's not voting against affordable housing and what it is about is going back to the drawing board and saying that this this plan isn't good enough it uh and we have a higher standard um for public housing in fayetteville and that we value the people who live there and want to make sure that they have appropriate access to jobs in transportation and grocery stores and all of the and things places like the Yvonne Richardson Center and all the things that they need to participate in society and be successful and that they should be able to access those without endangering their lives by walking on dark streets without adequate sidewalks and and putting themselves at risk for being hit by cars. But ultimately, if anything comes out of this discussion, I want it to be a message to the council that we need to be paying attention to the Housing Authority Board. This is a self-appointed volunteer board of five members. We only got to appoint the last board member because they did not appoint one by deadline. They can actually make decisions affecting millions of dollars in public infrastructure with a quorum of three people. And they are now in the process of liquidating our public access and doing these RAD conversions, which is of great concern. So if we are going to approve this development, this large-scale development in South Fayetteville, then we as a city council need to commit to the infrastructure investments that will be required to create a safe community down there. And that means following through on the Walker Park Master Plan and building out all of those sidewalks that we said we were going to do over 10 years ago. And so if we're going to put all of these low-income people down in South Fayetteville further away from jobs, from services, from amenities, then we have to be serious about funding these infrastructure improvements. If we do approve this, then I hope in our capital improvement plans, we're going to amend that to invest more in inclusive mobility and complete streets in South Fayetteville, in stormwater infrastructure repairs, because we didn't even touch on that issue tonight, and it is a very serious issue in South Fayetteville. So that's the way we need to weigh this discussion. Are we going to invest in bringing the infrastructure up to a reasonable standard to ensure that these people can be safe, or are we going to allow them to move a vulnerable population into an unsafe area and create unsafe traffic conditions? Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to make some final comments? Okay. Do we need a motion and a second or something? Okay. Yes, and the motion and second would be to approve the resolution which would grant the appeal and deny the large-scale development. So a vote for the resolution is a vote to reverse the Planning Commission's decision and to deny the large-scale development. Are there any questions about that? So we need a motion and a second. Yes. So moved. Mark. I'll second it. I'll second that. Any other final comments from the council? Adela. Okay. Well, I have been, well this thing has been a riot, I'll tell you. I've seen all the emails and I certainly want to have it in the record that this mayor did not meet with any of the housing authority to cut any kind of deal. Right? That's good because that's true. now i don't care what the email said i never met with one housing authority member i probably met more with melissa terry than i did any of the housing authority that's when she was a citizen um here's my position on this and here's what i look at am i crazy about this development i agree with you matthew i'm not particularly crazy about this development really i'm not but it's gone through my planning staff and they said it meets the requirements threshold of the udc and large scale development right andrew yes sir and they're going to widen the road, make improvements. I was a little bit surprised to hear that there was a bus stop on 7th Street. Did not know that. I didn't know that they were considering putting a bus stop on McClinton, and that's very good. If that is the case, then that's about 200 feet of walking. My children walk 700 feet to the bus, so that's not unusual. But it's past the planning. They also, Andrew, it brings connectivity. And at the longest point would be, what is it, a block and a half to college thereabouts, if that far, two blocks, somewhere along there. So it passed my planning staff and went through the city attorney who determined it and met all the requirements and agreed with the planning staff. It went to the planning commission, and they voted it in 5-2. Now, as an individual, I think that that project needs some improvements. I do. But as a mayor and looking at the facts, I would have to support the housing authority in this. Now, I think there needs to be improvements. And I know that we've made some appointments now that council has that will probably bring some change. I agree with you. I think we need to go back and look at this appeal process. And you all can determine that if you want to add other things. But what I have today, I just, and I was a little, you know, the fire chief, he's always looking for connectivity where he can get fire trucks in and out to put out fires. And when I looked at the accident in Port, which is something I was real interested in, and I saw that there was 12 and no pedestrians involved. And, you know, there was going to be a sidewalk along there, so. and i like the project not particularly but that's not what we're here to discuss not as the udc and i would uh support the project so i won't be voting if need be on this issue all right having said that sonar call the roll I need the city attorney to tell us one more time. All right. And it is kind of confusing because... It is very confusing. But we have to structure it that way because it's really the... It passed the Planning Commission. The large-scale development was approved at the Planning Commission, and then it was appealed by Council Member Marsh to this body. And so the burden really is upon the appealer because the large-scale development prevailed before at the Planning Commission. So to keep the burden on the appellant, which is Councilmember Marsh, I'm going to keep messing up like that for a while, Sarah, sorry. I drafted a resolution that granted her appeal and denied the large-scale development. So if you want to grant the appeal and to deny the large-scale development, you would vote yes. If, on the other hand, you... would agree with Councilmember Petty or the mayor and think that regardless what you think about the project, that it meets the requirements, then you would vote no, and that would deny the appeal, and the large-scale development would remain approved. Thank you. No. Marsh? Yes. Hinton? Yes. Petty? No. Hinton? No. No. Long? No. No. So the resolution did not pass and therefore the large-scale development remains approved An ordinance to enact one 10.0 three small cell facilities and networks into chapter 110 telecommunication franchise bill posting in small cell facilities and networks We have a second Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? I'm sorry. Who seconded that? Sarah, did you second that? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll when you get ready? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Kennett? I have to recuse. Oh, that's right. Satch? Yes. Long? Yes. Yes. I think that's six votes. So an ordinance to enact Section 110.03, Small Cell Facilities and Networks, into Chapter 110, Telecommunication Franchise, Bill Posting, and Small Cell Facilities and Networks. Okay. Susan. Thank you, Mayor, Council. Since last we met and presented this to you two weeks ago, As I mentioned to you at the council agenda setting session last week, we had several comments come in from providers. What we have submitted to you this afternoon and what Sandra has put at your desk tonight is a red line version of the existing Exhibit A in support of the documents, the ordinance. The red line version incorporates the changes that we discussed as staff and we discussed with the different providers as we considered their written comments and comments made verbally over conference calls. Blake tonight is unfortunately away from us, but fortunately learning more about small cell technologies as he's- That's not necessarily fortunate. Well, I don't know. At the IMLA, International Municipal League, International Municipal Lawyers Association meeting, where they are talking a lot about small cell technology. So we've been on the phone with Blake, and what we wanted to do tonight is just present to you the changes we, at this time, think address the concerns that we've heard from the providers, at least as we are comfortable with answering them. Thank you. providers that we've heard from are Cox, AT&T, Verizon, Mobility, Extinet, the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association, CTIA, and Towns Telecommunication Company, a company in Louisville, Arkansas. We wanted to take the opportunity to, we didn't have enough time before last Tuesday, but now we've gotten all the comments to date and we worked together this morning as we reviewed all the different points, the salient points we prepared in the document for you that we also distributed this afternoon that just pretty much synthesizes the main sticking points we heard and things that we wanted to do to address those. I want to thank the providers for the detailed comments. I know they spent a long time also making clear what they thought needed clarification or what they disagreed with. But the main points that we debated had to do with the size of the poles or the facilities that would be installed, the stealth and camouflage of those facilities. issues regarding co-location, facilities located on existing structures, particularly with respect to height. There were differences of opinions there. Replacement of existing structures. We tried to—that was one area we worked on so that we, I hope, could accommodate their concerns. Spacing between facilities, standards for variance requests, and the fee structure. So in that second document that came to you in email, all of those issues have a response. I would like to ask you to not move forward on it tonight and allow Blake time to be here so he could further address any questions you might have. But Keith and I are here. Where's Keith? There he is. Where'd he go? There you are. So if you have any questions for us, if we can answer them, we'll be happy to. Otherwise, we'd just soon wait for Blake for a full discussion next time. Okay. One question we have from the council. Mark? This is a pretty technical issue. It's an emerging technology, and we have representatives tonight that would like to give a brief presentation from the industry, and I would like to move that. we allow them to do that pursuant to the rules of the City Council. I'll second that. All right, we have a motion to second to allow presentation from all the providers. Would five minutes... No, I think there's a joint presentation. Okay, okay. Five minutes, Mark, or... Five minutes. Okay. We can ask, we can extend it if we need it. Okay, sure, sure. All right. So I'm going to just please call the roll. I am. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes Yes, yes, okay, so they can do presentation one person one provider who will that be all right Hey, good evening. My name is Andy Slater. I'm the real estate manager for this area with Verizon I'm partnering with Kathy for acre with AT&T and we'd like to discuss the small cell ordinance. That's being discussed next slide, please So think of small cells and the relationships with the macro towers, things that you might be familiar with. And the example that we use is walking into a library. So the macro towers, they act as overhead lighting and illuminate the entire area. The small cells, they act like desk lamps to provide localized lighting where it's needed so you can read more easily. Next slide. all right so some examples of small cells in our communities so here's some some pictures that that give different examples and where they can be placed and as you may note the antennas on these solutions are significantly smaller than the ones you see on the poles or rooftops today so unlike conventional cell towers small cells are compact wireless equipment and often attached to existing vertical structures such as street lamps utility poles and the size of buildings Given their compact size, the small cells can be aesthetically blended into their environment. So, first I'd like to thank Susan Norton in her presentation at the previous meeting. She did a great job of explaining why small cells are needed in a place like Fayetteville. And I'd like to expand on what she told you, especially by mentioning the infrastructure portion in this investment. So, unlike other major infrastructure projects that use taxpayer monies, wireless providers will invest tens of millions of dollars in the Fayetteville area to build the newest, fastest networks. And not only will small cells alleviate current congestion issues, and some examples are tailgating events, bikes, blues, and barbecue, this enhancement will matters to support the growth of the city while at the same time helping to alleviate the city's goals of becoming the startup city of the South and by driving businesses and entrepreneurs in the in the community and maybe most importantly small cell technology will help further the city's Fayetteville first initiatives by enabling the city to compete with neighboring communities and states and furthering the city's goals of becoming an innovative district and enhancing walkability factors so you can eat, work, and play even from your smartphone. And increasing network bandwidth, which is an important component in the site selection process. Next slide. So why small cells are needed? You have consumer demand for mobile broadband in high populations. And the increasing popularity of streaming videos, tablets, computers is driving up usage by 650% by 2018. So why the growth? Really, we have more devices than we have people. We have approximately 60 million more wireless subscribers than people, subscriptions than people. So next slide. Staying ahead of demand. Think of it as a highway system. The goal is to stay ahead of the demand and not wait until the real issues. Next slide. Next slide. So 5G, think about the type of network that this is going to provide for 5G, which will give speeds 50 times faster than the current 4G networks. And if you don't have any of the infrastructure in place, 5G will not happen. It's an important part of that infrastructure. Next slide. Rigid spacing and sitting requirements work against the goals of providing coverage where it's needed and when it's needed. Small cells are lower power antenna that offer coverage where large cell towers can't. And they add capacity to wireless networks that are increasingly clogged with use. And they provide capacity offload in peak demand situations, such as large public gatherings and natural disasters. One minute. Yes. They greatly increase data speeds, allow next generation Internet of Things, and provide smart solutions. And finally, we feel the ordinance is moving in a positive direction, but it needs more fine-tuning. Flexibility allowing the city staff discretion to determine whether topography issues dictate special consideration such as height. Spacing limitations failed to take into account that small cell placement is driven by consumer demand. For example, game day, small cells are needed within the vicinity and space limitations would impair the ability to place the cells where it would be most effective. And finally, mandating that carriers provide four pairs of dark fiber prevents new entrants into the market. It's a barrier to entry and discriminates in favor or against certain types of businesses. Suggestions could be change the wording from shall to may and the dark fiber provision and set the fees as a cap as a way to encourage fiber sharing. Tom. Thank you for your time. Okay. Is there any questions? Okay. Wait a minute. I have a question. Go ahead, Mark. I have a dark screen or I would be hit. Oh, okay. When it comes back up, you can ask your – well, go ahead and ask your questions. Andy is there anything in your presentation that we need to know that what was maybe cut off at the end of it? All right, thank you. I just go by the rules All right any public comment on this it's gonna be left where it is. Okay, let's move on to the next item All right number three A resolution to adopt the 2018-2022 five-year capital improvements plan. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is the five-year capital improvement plan. It identifies $112 million worth of projects in the plan to be done in the next five years. There are $124 million worth of projects that have been identified for which funding is not available. The last time I presented this, we talked a little about the plan. Roughly $35 million of this is for water and sewer, $16 million for transportation, $18 million for power. equipment and vehicles spread over all the departments. $12 million on public safety, which is roughly 10% of the plan, and $7.5 million on trails. So between transportation, vehicles, public safety, water, and sewer, that's 70% of the entire program. Again, this is not an appropriation, this is not a budget. subject to discussion and change each and every year, but it's the basic plan going forward for internal capital for the city. Last time this was presented, there was a presentation by the head of the Parks Board, requesting that the elimination of $200,000 for a parks master plan be reinstituted. We had recommended that that not be funded. Based on the input at the last council meeting that a majority of the council members favored this plan. The mayor directed me to get together with Connie and research the parks section of the CIP to see if we could fund this master plan. So I'm going to recommend an amendment to the CIP to include the master plan. $50,000 would be included in the 2018 budget. That would be generally for a public survey. That money would come from... uh... a forestry study this year which we feel could be delayed uh... it's was in the twenty seventeen plan so that would give an extra fifty thousand dollars in a reserve we could use in the twenty eighteen budget to fund that segment of the master plan. The rest of the master plan would be funded in 2019. This would be taken from a project that had been identified for campgrounds at Lake Sequoia. That would move $150,000 from that project into the unfunded. We'd see what we can do about that in the future as we identify our steps going forward in the new year. We have discussed this at an agenda session, two agenda sessions ago. I went through quite a bit of detail on the plan. But that's about all I have to say at this point in time. Again, that's an amendment we would like to recommend to get the parks plan reinstituted into the budget. I'll answer any questions on the plan. Thank you. did i hear you right that we were pulling 50k out of the general reserves no it would be fifty thousand dollars we have identified in capital projects in 2017 in the parks budget That would not be done this year. Essentially, it would take the parks budget and increase the parks budget reserves by $50,000, and that would be programmed in 2018. This would not take anything from the general fund. Thank you. And then the additional $150,000 is coming from the campground project. That's correct. Thank you. Matthew. I'll move to make the amendment as described by Mr. Becker. put the parks master plan in the cip yes mayor okay sarah i'll second that what discussion do we have on anything um so uh i i'm certain my comments last time about uh uh reconfiguring a little bit of this surprise some people especially in the administration um because my comments on the Let's delay the parks master plan. And, you know, I recommend we delay the parks master plan so we can use that money to fund software upgrades with regards to our development and building permit systems, which I was very grateful to the administration of finding that money and even more money than we had planned for those system upgrades and that's in there, because I described those as critical. And I have to... I apologize for overlooking something. I overlooked, whenever I reviewed the draft, that we have $500,000 or thereabouts for the take-home vehicle program. And so there were two things between my draft comments in the last meeting that started to change my thinking. The first, Mayor, was that you asked us at the Transportation Committee to start thinking of projects including the next bond issue. Right. And I know that we had talked several times about also including some parks projects there and some drainage projects. And I didn't realize, you know, in the middle of the summer when we were reviewing the CIP that we were intending to be so aggressive with the bond issue. And it makes me a little uneasy going out for the bond issue without a parks master plan in place. I'm a little bit comforted, but I'd say not 100% comforted that we'd be doing a survey next year to establish priorities ahead of that. I think that gets me probably 60% or 70% of the way there. I'd still prefer to have more of the plan completed before we went out for a vote to the people for a bond issue because it's just so important. Okay. And I support the amendment in this. I also, you know, I think it would be remiss if I didn't explain my thinking on the take-home vehicle program. I'm not convinced that it's worthwhile and that that money wouldn't be spent on other things, whether that's spent in the police department on other things or elsewhere in the budget. You know, I've heard this administration argue a few times against doing a program like that in the past. and I'm not convinced that you know really has an impact on crime more than spending that money in other ways or even that we have officers that are living in high crime areas where we might have an effect I'm also a little skeptical of it as a recruitment tool I'm certain that it is a benefit that people care about but I'm not certain it's the most effective recruitment tool you know I asked myself It's a $500,000 program for five vehicles. If we gave five officers a $5,000 bonus for five years in cash, we've saved $350,000 or thereabout, and we've given everybody an incentive that they might appreciate more. So I'm not skeptical. I'll still vote for the CIP because it's been pointed out this might change later. I don't know that I would, you know, I know that from this plan, staff is going to be putting time into everything that's budgeted here. And I have to, you know, I feel an obligation to explain that. I don't know that I'll support take-home vehicle purchases in the future as a member of the equipment committee because I'm not convinced of it. And I feel that staff should know that before they put a lot of time into it, even though I'm only one vote. So in any case, I appreciate that we are doing a little bit with the master plan. Thank you. And I apologize, I've overlooked, you know, that $500,000 item. When I was doing the review before, it would have changed the way I structured my comments. But I am happy for this amendment. Thank you for putting the time into it. Okay. Any public comment on the amendment? Yes, please. Louise. Thank you. Louise Mann, Gray Avenue, 69 Gray Avenue. I've got just a couple of questions. First off, thank you for all the work, Paul. This is pretty incredible, 200 pages. I'm a little confused because this is a five-year plan, and I understood we were so desperate to get this single-string MRF put in, and I don't see anything in here about a MRF. So why is there nothing in here about a MRF if we've gotta have some more facilities? Hi, Paul. Well, when the recycling plan was presented, that particular part wasn't selected for implementation, so it wasn't implemented as part of the plan, so it's not in the planning document. So the need is no longer there? Well, Louise, right now we're talking about the amendment to do the Master Parks plan. Am I correct? Well, I'm sorry. But you can come back and make your statements about the CIP. Oh, I thought you were just talking about the CIP. No, I've got to get the amendment done, and then we'll talk about it. Oh, that's correct. I should have ordered pizza. You'll be back. I know you will. All right. Now, is there any other public comments on the amendment to the Master Parks plan? No. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second, correct? Correct. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Right. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Kenneth. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay. Okay. Now then, with that said, Louise, you may come back to the podium and ask your questions. I did go for the hearing test and they said I am deaf. So anyway. Okay, so the single string MRF is not in here. So for the next five years, we're not going to talk about building a MRF? No. I don't know. I think that would be the decision. Well, I'll answer that in this method. That wasn't approved as part of the implementation plan as far as the recycling plan was concerned. That doesn't mean something can't be introduced later. Be brought back. Because this is a plan. So what was included in the plan was roughly $1.5 million to proceed toward expanding recycling that the council had approved in regard to composting of food materials and expanding recycling. And my part of that, Louise, what I understand is that what we're doing is the food composting and the construction debris recycling is the first steps we're going to do. I think it would take, if you did single stream, would take more of a regional approach than it would the city of Fayetteville do. Well, my understanding was that, and I was told by a friend in Fort Smith who had talked to a council member down there, that Fayetteville was talking to Fort Smith about a regional single stream MRF. Do you know what's up with that? I don't know nothing of that, Don. That's not accurate. When the council voted on the master plan, waste and recycling plan and chose to stay with our current system. The MRF processing center, which was something that would have been needed, would need regional volume to support it. At At the time, there was not an interest in Bentonville, Rogers, or Springdale. Obviously, our volume doesn't justify a center of that investment, and we've had no discussions. Jeff and Terry here, unless they've been doing it, no discussions with Fort Smith or any other city about partnering for Murph. I can tell you I haven't had any discussions. Thank you for clarifying that. Jeff explained to me that about the five trucks and that's another meeting I think when I can make a public comment about that but I do see in the CIP that there'll be two more curbsort trucks for your apartment recycling in the future and and Jeff and I have discussed this but I will say it to the council as well I'd really encourage you to think about beyond the trucks we have now if because when I heard during all the single stream discussion was is that we're having all this repetitive motion syndrome and all these back problems and so if this is the case We are sitting in the center of the creative business universe so if there's anybody that could design a truck that will meet the needs of workers Fayetteville is is the place and And you all have all heard, I'm sure, about the ban of America's trash recycling, that China has now banned all that. And so a lot of the mess is now starting to go to India and Vietnam. So I applaud you for not going over the recycle cliff with a lot of other, quote, progressive communities. The word out of Seattle today is they can't get rid of their yogurt cups and pizza things anymore. Portland's having to regroup so is Madison so thank you for not getting a single stream but before you go forward on the two trucks And I'll keep talking to Jeff. Let's see if we can do something that will even further reduce repetitive motion syndrome as well as the back strain. And I'll check with my Fort Smith contact and find out why an older person down there said that they were talking to Fayetteville about single strain. Wasn't me. I don't know. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you, Louise. Thank you. All right, Don, I think you're up, or Mark, I'm sorry, you're next on the... I wanted to respond to that unequivocally from the point of view of the Solid Waste Committee, that we did not include that in the CIP or request it for single stream, and the misinformation that's in the community needs to be corrected. And the City Council as a whole did not make that a priority, and it was evident whenever we... accepted the long-term plan for solid waste management. So if you're out there, be informed. That's all I'm saying. And I don't think anyone on the Solid Waste Committee would have any reason to talk with Fort Smith about anything or how they've handled their sewer system. I just don't think, and their recycling. I just don't think that that would be acceptable a point that you would want to put in the gossip column about Fayetteville because it's simply not true. Thanks. Terry. Well, just to expand on that a little bit, I mean, when we passed the master plan back in the spring, we looked at here's the 10-year plan, this is the direction you directed us to move towards, so We had waited several years to replace our trucks because we were waiting to give you the option of getting the most information possible and then giving us direction on which way you wanted us to go. So once that was determined, we've got a very aged fleet at this time in the department, which causes us a lot of problems. Plus the other thing going on is Fayetteville is back to growing again. quickly, especially to the west. And our routes are pretty much, we've almost got the need for another route, but we don't have the vehicle to put it on it, or we're using our spares to do it, and we're actually running one. But you gave us direction for the next 10 years. This is a five-year CIP. So what we did was take the first steps, which is the food waste, trying to deal with food waste, trying to expand into 24 and under apartments, which we promised you we were going to look at. So these trucks are to help in that, plus in the growth of the new homes that we are servicing. So that's the direction we're going. and we've had no conversation with Fort Smith. The only thing I ever remember reading was in the newspaper about a Fort Smith alderman being quoted as saying, we're gonna have to take a more regional approach to this to find some place to take our singles. It had nothing to do with us and I don't like getting compared to something that did not follow the rules when we're doing everything we've been directed to do. So make it perfectly clear, I mean it'd be like, Me just not listening to you say, here, I'm going to do single stream. I don't care what they think. I'm employed until the end of the meeting, maybe, if Don doesn't get to me first. So that will never happen. It's moving forward just like we were directed. When we looked at the trucks back when Kessler was hired, we gave them every opportunity to go any direction they wanted to go to get us to 80%. They talked to y'all. We made the determination it wasn't going to go that high of a percentage. We settled on the 40, brought that back as a plan we thought we could actually achieve. And then those things, we looked at trough trucks. We looked at every kind of truck you could find or anything we've ever heard about. And we listened to anybody that brought us anything they wanted us to look at. But when the bottom line fell and they brought back their recommendation It was to the determination of the council to stay as we were we have improved trucks over the years We used to have trucks that you put material in much higher We've got the best truck we can find on the market we've gone to meetings looking at it we've looked at everything at the waste Expos and This is the best one there. It fits with the others we have, and until we find something better, it's the one we're going to bring and propose that we replace our trucks with. If that Kyle, Jeff, and everybody else in recycling trash is always looking for something better for their employees, if we find it, you'll be the first to know, and we'll be saying we would like to go this direction. But other than that, this is where we are. Okay. Thank you. All right, Alan. I had a question for Terry real quick. Terry, if you don't mind, just, I mean, this is the five-year CIP plan. I mean, these purchases are not being made tomorrow. So if something does come along better in the meantime, we could certainly look at those things, right? Yeah, these are two trucks that would be purchased after January. I do wanna say, though, that on the next agenda item, There are five of the 12 fleet items that have been scheduled to be replaced over 24 months that are waiting until the completion of the study. So we don't have a luxury of waiting on those. That's why we've been evaluating equipment or asked our division to evaluate the equipment for those purchases. But we're not talking about 12. No, we're talking five of them. But we're talking almost half. And then once we get to January, yes, we're talking two more. So we're talking seven out of the 12. And that's what I was about to say, too. Next meeting, you're going to have five on there of this type of truck that we're proposing to buy in the CIP next year also. And if we buy these now, we've gotten really good bids on them. They've already been bid. They will move forward once we get approval or not. We'll decide something else if you choose differently. But we're proposing to replace five of those on the next agenda. So, and those were all ones that were delayed multiple years. We could have went ahead and bought them. They were in the previous queue to be replaced, but we chose not to, to be able to get the definitive answer from the council before we move forward. Because I didn't want to buy $575,000 trucks and then you, if you had decided to go single stream they would have been obsolete immediately. and we probably would have gotten half the cost back with a one-year-old truck. I just have one follow-up question if I could. And so after we buy these, if we do decide to go a different route with separated trucks, more automation, what are the value of these used trucks? I mean, we would get some money back for them if we decided to sell them on the market. I'm sure we'd get something back. I can't tell you exactly what we would get. You know, the older they are, the less we get. We've just reached the tipping point of, Jesse and fleet cannot keep hardly keep them on the road. We've got 12 trucks trying to run 10 routes in the past We've essentially added 11th route So we're essentially down to one spare and there and seven or five of them are past their life expectancy The point of where we need to put twelve to fifteen thousand dollars in each one because the compactors are worn out so, you know, they've got trucks with sixty or seventy thousand miles on them and But they've got 15,000 to 16,000 hours of usage, which is huge. I do want to add, I think that we have tried in every opportunity with our equipment to look for ways in working with the providers when we bid on them to see improvements in and the trucks used to have a step up that you actually sorted from and we had lots of ankle injuries ankle sprains We changed that in the part of the design. So we do continually work for these improvements just like the Ergonomic height for shoulders to try to reduce the shoulder and muscular skeleton is injuries that we've had by lowering in this sort they're not perfect, but they're continuing to improve and It's why we pay to send people to these equipment shows to look at all the opportunities out there and to talk with designers Can you can you hear me? Okay, I There was some talk about Boston Mountain Solid Waste. Some of the counties came up to the microphone and said they might be interested in a regional approach, but nobody has brought it up to the Boston Mountain Solid Waste. There's been no discussion on single stream regional project. Yeah, the solid waste, you know, the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District, yeah. That's not been discussed there. So there's been no traction on that. Okay? All right. Anything else? Well, we're on the... Sarah. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I wanted to follow up on Alderman Petty's comments or Councilmember Petty's comments about the take-home vehicles I am in agreement that that is not necessarily, I don't find that to necessarily be the best investment. Although after doing some research on it, I do think that there is some benefit in having some take-home vehicles from a community resiliency and disaster planning standpoint. I mean, I think we saw with our Ozark Regional Transit lately that the hazards of storing all your vehicles in one place, so having a few extra cars dispersed throughout the community could be a good thing. But rather than allocate that money specifically for take-home vehicles, I would rather see us reclassify it as for officer recruitment, retention, and development to give the staff the opportunity to decide how to best invest that money. And some of it may be in take-home vehicles, but I think we should also look at the possibility of allowing them to give performance bonuses, support professional development efforts, and other things that can help us recruit and retain officers. so with that i would like to make a move that we reclassify that money from being specifically for take-home vehicles to being for officer recruitment retention and development i'll second that motion okay mayor if i could just make a comment i do want to make sure the council is clear that whatever reallocation if it's for that category must be capital related and not operations related pay bonuses would be pay operations and not capital that's correct Because that always comes out of the operation, the general operation. Okay, well, with that in mind, then I think that we need to look at other – Think that we should question the amount of money that we are investing in that program I have a question for Paul on the sidewalk improvements. I see we're allocating three hundred and eighty thousand dollars a year What were we allocating last year? That's from the street fund Also allocated next year. We increased what we had allocated last year so last year we allocated roughly $500,000 directly to sidewalks. This would take the allocation for 2018 to $780,000. Okay, where is that extra money? Because I'm looking at the Division 410 transportation services. One, look in transportation improvements, it's sidewalk improvements. We have $600,000 allocated. I'm sorry, we raised that to $600,000 this year. That's in transportation. Oh, could you reference what page you're on? Yeah, because I have different information here. Okay. I'm not looking at the same thing. I'm on page 9 of the document under transportation improvements, and that is under the sales tax capital plan. So that would be page 9? Okay, then why does it say on page 13 that we're only allocating $380,000 a year? They're two different places. Okay, and I will stand corrected. We're allocating... $380,000 is coming from the street fund. Okay. That's on page four. So it's $380,000 on the street fund. I also stand corrected. We increased the sidewalk improvement payment to $600,000 this year. So the combination of those two would be on sidewalks. Yeah. Okay. What I'm seeing is page 13. Page 13. Mm-hmm. You have the $380,000 a year. yeah that's 380 000 just from the street fund it's just okay all right and then where is the page for the the balance of that money yeah 600 000. 93 okay i see that on page 93 thank you terry and how to and once again how did that compare to last year's spending there was 750. okay it was an increase thank you Yes, I would like to speak to the issue of take-home vehicles. This is something that I've been working on for several years, and my source of information is our police chief and staff, who have been very supportive of thinking that this was a good way to spend our money. I think the... and being able to take them home is an excellent thing. I'm sure you're aware of some home invasions that we've had in our city. I feel very strongly that a police car in that neighborhood, which is not at all a high crime neighborhood, would have deterred that home invasion. So I think that's a big reason for us to consider this. Furthermore, I think recruitment is an excellent reason that we would have take-home vehicles. Also, the vehicles last much longer because they're not in action 24-7. So it seems like we're having to put a lot of money in at this particular moment, but once we get our fleet up to where it should be, then we will not have to spend so much each year because our vehicles will last longer. Those are just a few of the reasons that I've been told that this would be a very wise move wise use of our money. Thank you. Mike, why don't you come up and tell them why this program is important and your opinion. I think what I would do is echo the Chief's comments from two weeks ago when we talk about recruitment. We look at where we recruit from and the number one place we recruit from is Northwest Arkansas. So when you look to those cities that are comparable to us, which is Bentonville, Rogers, Springdale, Benton County and Washington County, they all have take home vehicle programs for their officers. So it's just one benefit that we look at. In my 24 years, there's benefits that we've compared with other agencies as we were coming up through the organization, as that applicants also compare. One of those was certificate pay, which we recently got through. The other one was the take-home vehicle program. In 2012, that's when we initiated the take-home vehicle program. We had zero marked take-home units in 2012. Today we have eight. It doesn't seem like a whole lot, but it takes us a lot of money to get there, as we've mentioned. And the best way to get there is through our capital improvement projects. Council Member Petty, you mentioned five vehicles. I think it's seven vehicles that we have planned for the CIP through this five-year period, this five-year plan. I will tell you that I attended the Arkansas Chiefs Convention recently with Chief Tabor. One of the number one concerns of the chiefs in Arkansas is how do we recruit, and not only how do we recruit, but how do we retain a workforce, especially in these times. These times when our officers and my profession is being vilified by some. We feel fortunate to be in northwest Arkansas because we feel like maybe we're a little bit more immune than other areas throughout our nation. So that is a big concern for us. Also recently, as of yesterday, the law enforcement officers killed and assaulted report from the FBI come out. They released that officers have been killed 60% more in 2016 than in 2015. So we're up there. So it's harder to get people that are interested in being police officers. So we've got to do everything we can as management to recruit and retain that workforce and keep the professional police department that we have and the service that we provide to our citizens. I'll expand a little bit on Council Member Gray's comments. I think that one thing is operational readiness. It's not only a benefit for our employees, it's a benefit for the 84,000 citizens in the city. So an example would be Mayor Jordan. We had the gentleman that decided to take a hostage at the Motel 6 a couple of years ago. I have an officer that lives a block or two blocks away at Fiesta Square. He's an ERT member, which is our emergency response team, our SWAT team, special tactical training. He has special equipment, special training to deal with those situations. That officer had to respond to the police department because he did not have a take-home unit, respond to the police department, drive by that situation where I had a hostage, where I had officers out on that scene that had been shot at, get a vehicle and come back and respond to the scene to provide assistance to those officers. So not only being a crime deterrent, but being operational ready is important for us. Certainly, eight vehicles, eight take-home vehicles isn't a lot today, but in five years, we hope that that's 15. Maybe we can find another funding source through grant. Maybe that'll be 20. But that's where we're trying to get. So on top of the crime deterrent, we also feel like it's a benefit from the operational ready standpoint too. I'll be happy to take any questions. Okay, Adele, you're up. If I could just add one thing to that, just as Chief Reynolds talks about that. There is a value, and this program does only allow these take-home vehicles to go to our officers who live within the city limits of Fayetteville. So over 65% of our city workers live outside the city. So it's also an incentive for in-residency officers, which can be valuable for emergency situations, the resiliency response issues that communities have had to deal with. So it's not like we're doing this across the board for all. We're not driving them to West Fork and other communities. This is a program that is limited within the city of Fayetteville areas. And what might be helpful for the council as you look and evaluate this is to maybe provide them confidentially locations where these are so you can see how they're spread throughout the city. Okay, Al. Hi Mike, thank you for your comments tonight. That does help me understand a little bit more. You know, the first time I ever questioned this program was when I was driving on I-540 at the time. It's been a while. And I was halfway to Rogers in the morning, and I saw one of our police cars driving to Rogers in the morning. And I thought, well, that must be one of the take-home vehicles after I found out a little bit more. But looking at it, with eight officers, that's a lot of money for eight people. That's quite a bit of money. What officers are given that priority? When we're looking at it in employee retention and attraction, the eight highest ranking officers I would assume would be the ones that would get those, wouldn't they? That's a fair assessment. I'll try to expand on that just a little bit for you. So it's given by seniority, but it's by shift as well. So currently we have eight. Obviously, we have two squads that work nights and days on 12-hour shifts, and we have four squads total, two on nights and two on days. So in order to equally distribute those vehicles, we do two to each squad, and it's based upon seniority to that officer that's the senior person to that squad. So is our turnover highest in our senior officers or junior officers? Well, lately it's been in our senior officers by far. Is that because of retirement or going to other cities? Due to retirement. Okay, so that's not really— What I'm looking at as far as employee retention and attraction, we're talking about not retiring employees. We're talking about turnover of employees going to other police forces. So I think we'd be looking at more junior officers compared to the senior officers that we're looking to attract. Would you say that's generally true? Ask that again. I'm sorry. Okay. So— We're not talking really about retiring employees when we're talking about attracting and retaining employees because they're retiring, not moving to other police forces. So really we're looking at junior officers that we're trying to retain and attract to those new positions. And those are generally not the officers getting the take home vehicles because they don't have the seniority. So I'm not sure how that really would play into employee retention and attraction. So I'll go back and try to explain a little bit better. When I said that we have two take home units assigned to each squad for a total of eight, most of our less tenured officers are on the night shift, work 7 PM to 7 AM. So it is a benefit for half of them. In other words, we probably, without me going back and looking, I would guess that it's a two- to three-year officer on night shift on our night squad that has a take-home unit. Okay. And what's our turnover look like amongst those officers? I would say that our turnover is running at about 6% to 7% on an annual basis. Fairly low? Fairly low right now. Okay. That's correct. All right. Thank you. Appreciate it, Mike. yes thank you mayor um you know even though i'm i've expressed some skepticism about the program and you might be able to get me all the way there with with a readiness um a readiness argument um i don't think replacing this with with something that is general in nature is the right move it seems a little too hasty to me um even if it is a good idea after it got fully baked uh And I don't support moving it into operations. I know I used that example of giving cash bonuses, and I was being a little facetious whenever I did that. Because I am skeptical that there's not a better retention program that we could use than this. But I think that's besides my point, which is to say, I don't think the motion right now is timely. I would give any proposal that came later to amend the CIP and divert this funding into something else. It's due consideration if it was fully vetted whenever it came forward. And I think I've made my skepticism clear about the program, but I don't think, I think we're gonna amend it in that way. It needs to be in a way that's deliberate. Okay, Sarah. Thank you. I do want to pull my motion or withdraw my motion because I was thinking more holistically about the budget instead of just in terms of capital improvements, and I realize that the proposal is not specific enough for that. But I do hope going forward that we do look at alternative ways to recruit and support our officers beyond this program. And I also withdraw my second. I was going to get to that in a moment. Okay, Mark. I kind of look at this a little bit differently coming from a manager that had to manage a corporate division where an incentive was a vehicle. And the retention, it's not just recruitment, it is retention. Because you come into the program with a promise that you stay around and you perform. And then you stay until you get to the point that you can get the vehicle. I think that if you look at any corporate model, obviously there is a payback on it because it's used in every Fortune 500 company that I know in people that have to be mobilized. So this is a retention. It is a... also does help because at the same time you have to look at where the vehicle is placed throughout the community and as we expand the program then we're going to have more vehicles throughout the community for readiness and i i see there's so many points to this that we have to take it seriously it is a large investment but this is a long-term investment it's not a short-term investment and it's one that will stay in the program longer than the immediate cost of just getting some vehicles. So I've tried to think about this from a more corporate business incentive situation, from my personal experience, where I know that it's important when you have to be competitive, and we have to be competitive in this market, to at least meet the same standards or you're going to lose your best officers so that they can get an opportunity it might seem silly it might seem benign to a person that hasn't seen it work in operations but this is a big incentive it really is and uh it's a big it's a big capital expense but there are a lot of uh there's a lot of value to this in the recruitment in the retention in the performance because you're going Also, I'm sure have you don't know that someone that's irresponsible in one of your vehicles so I I think that this is the right move to consider and put it in the program and then as we move along we can evaluate To see how effective it is, but we have to be competitive in the market We have to be and whenever everyone in Northwest Arkansas Has the program? we have to know that we are meeting the same standards or exceeding the same standards as any other program that's just trying to recruit the best and the brightest and also retain the best and the brightest. So I'm looking at this a step at a time because it has to be evaluated and it is a big expense, but I do see the value to it up front. Just. I would like to ask, Is it continually getting harder to recruit good officers into this city, given the growth of Northwest Arkansas and the competitive nature? Is it harder now than it's ever been? I think we've been pretty fortunate when I listen to my counterparts that it is not quite as difficult in Fayetteville But I attribute that to the support that you give us That you give the police department with the benefits that we have and as long as we can stay competitive with those benefits and those And then pay incentives. I think that we will stay ahead of what others are experiencing that's what I mentioned I feel like maybe in Northwest Arkansas, we're kind of in a bubble and Obviously, it's my job, it's your job to ensure that we continue that, and I think that that's why this is so important. Once you take something away from an employee, a police officer, a firefighter, an employee that works for you, then you know what a demoralizing effect that that has. Albeit it has an effect on only eight officers today, we hope it has a positive effect on 15 in five years. But I've got 38 currently that are eligible for a take-home unit based upon our criteria. And at January 1, I'll have 45 for. So they look forward to that. That's something that's an incentive that they want and that they yearn for. Well, I appreciate Council Member Kenyon's point because I was going to bring it up. that the mere presence of this program helps recruitment and retention because it enables people to see what's possible if they stick around in a particular position. So I couldn't agree more with that. And I'm really careful in a situation like this to question the leadership of our police department because it is absolutely in their best interest to recruit the best people it's actually a matter of life and death for them to recruit the best people so for me to sit up here and question the leadership of the police department and say well you shouldn't do this you really should do it other ways whether it's bonuses or what i mean that's tough for me to do and i look at a budget of a city and we look at all the things that we want to do as a city if we don't have a safe city then none of that matters virtually none of those things matter and Adela's point is very accurate. In East Fayetteville, we had home invades and shooting, kidnapping. Just outside the city limits, we had drive-by shootings. I don't see us in a position to where we can make a conscious decision to damage the recruiting efforts of our police department. That bothers me tremendously to bring it up. Now, of course it's our job to look at everything, so it's not a bad thing that we're questioning it, but I do believe that you better have a really good reason not to trust the police department, in my opinion, on these sort of things because of course they're going to put their best ideas of how to recruit the best police men and women out there. I would not question this because I do believe that it's a good tool for them to use, and certainly appreciate all the efforts of our officers and think that this is a good recruitment and retention tool. Thank you. OK. I would like to echo I meet with the police chief every Monday morning and the fire chief, and we discuss needs for the fire and police department. The police chief comes in, he says, I need this for recruitment. I really don't. I'll be honest with you all. I really don't question it much. Whatever he says he needs, I try and get it for him and the fire department. Now, I can't give them everything as they well know, but I try to give them as much as I can. And, you know, radio systems, I mean, we look at $6 million for radio systems. We look at, you know, fire trucks that we need and train centers. And we do all that so we can bring in the best and recruit the best. And I really don't question them much. I don't, you know, we had earlier discussions about some of the equipment that we're buying. Those folks know more about what they need than I do. I have to rely on them. This is a recruitment tool for the police department, so to be honest with you, that's what I banked on the chief knowing what he was doing, and the rest is history, and that's why you see that in the budget. It's really kind of that simple. And it keeps the city safe too, that's important. Mayor, I just might add that in our pay study, in the benefit side, the four areas that I think there was a criticism that we tend to look at our retirement and that we're lot fee two versus other departments lot fee one, and that we need to be more fair in assessing all of the benefits in those areas. And the four most common are obviously retirement, lot fee, take home vehicles was second. certificate pay and language pay are the ones that we see most commonly in our market. That's true. Next. Yes, Mayor. I move to pass the resolution. Sarah. I second that. All right. We have a motion and a second to pass the CIP. Is that correct? And, folks, we're going to talk about all the – budgets and the funding in November. Right, Paul? So if you want to make any changes, I know y'all brought up Walker Park tonight and things like that, then I'm all ears. I just got so much money to work with. All right. If there's not any final comment, any more final comments, Tom, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh. Yes. Enid. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Enid. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Long. Yes. All right. Thank you all. All right, now moving along to new business. Do you all want a break? Do you want to continue on? Do you want a break? Let's keep fighting. All right. I'm good. Under new business number one an order to rezone that property described as on condition RZN 17-59 25 for approximately 1.73 acres Located 820 South government Avenue from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre MSC Main Street Center and I won heavy commercial line industrial to I won heavy commercial line industrial kit I be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre, MSC Main Street Center, and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are to hear by amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Andrew. Andrew. Mayor and Council, this property is located on the east side of Government Avenue. It's just southwest of the Farmers Co-op. To the west is the University of Arkansas Art and Design District. There's some background on the property in that it is split zone into three different zonings. The northern part is zoned RMF, or the northern part is zoned Main Street Center. The middle part is zoned RMF 24. And then there's a sliver of I-1 zoning along the eastern portion of the property. and it is the northern piece of it was a part of the downtown master plan that was why it was rezoned a part of that those efforts. However, the property has been historically developed for industrial uses. There was an existing nonconforming trucking business that has been there for many years. It was originally developed, I think, according to our research in the 1920s for industrial uses associated with the railroad spur through there. There is a diverse mix of surrounding uses in the area. There is some residential housing that has been recently built adjacent to the south and the applicant as mentioned is proposing to rezone the property to I-1. This would allow them to expand their trucking business and we do feel like it is an appropriate request and As mentioned, there are two different plans that are adopted for this property, really. You have the downtown master plan, which was a part of the northern piece, and then the future land use plan map picks up the southern piece, which designates it as a city neighborhood area. We feel like the request to I-1 would be appropriate. The council did recently amend the I-1 zoning to allow for retail and – I think that in combination with where the university is going to the north and the farmers co-op make this an appropriate zoning. So we are recommending to approve the rezoning to I-1 and the planning commission also recommended approval of the request. Thank you. Okay. Now, Mark, Matt, that's in your area, right? I'm close. It's very close. Okay. That's word one. And I have not heard any comments either in support or against. I haven't either. That area's been industrial for a long time and while I don't necessarily think this is ideal, I do think it's a great opportunity for some light manufacturing in the future. that would work really well with the adjacent arts district so well it's not ideal I do think it's any other comments McQuick council questions any public comment on we have the applicant here in fact that's why I requested that we fight on and go through this agenda because he's been waiting patiently yes so why don't you come up and talk to the council about why you wanted rezone I hope you enjoyed the earlier council meeting. Oh, yeah. I'm learning. I'm Bob Barnes. I just want to continue doing what we've done on the property since the early 70s. And I'm probably going to keep doing it for about eight, 10 years, and then we'll sell and go on. But I want to be able to do more things built on to where I can do it inside instead of out in the weather. I'm getting too old for it. That's the reason. OK. Do we have any questions for Bob on this? Oh, sorry, Matthew. Oh, no, I'm sorry. That's for Andrew when we come back. Okay, sir. Mr. Barnes, this is not necessarily directly related related to the rezoning but it is the property land use at the corner of the trail You've got your your chain link fence there with the privacy panels and it's creating a blind corner for people Trail users who are in that intersection which could be a dangerous condition I would just want to ask you to consider removing some of those brown strips there so that people can see for about 10 feet back of that intersection. It would really improve safety. When we donated the land for the trail on the north side, the Tis-Lagaugh Trail, the trails division put the... put the yeah well since then we've yeah yeah since then we've uh had some really nasty uh crashes down in that tunnel and such and so we've become more cognizant of the dangers posed by blind corners on the trail so um i'm not I'm going to support your request regardless of this. Just since I've got you here, if you would take some of those brown strips out about 10 feet from that corner, it would make it a lot safer for all those trail users. Or even just allow our employees to do it if we put them in. We have to do it with your permission. Yeah, but that would really improve the safety there, and I think it would be a good neighbor thing to do. So thank you. Okay, I appreciate it. How does that sound, Bob? That good for you? I don't think so. All right, then. Any other questions from— Thank you. Okay, thanks. All right, any public comment on this? All right, we're going to bring it back to the council. Fidella. I suggest we move to the next reading, please. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Move to earn a second, or please put your motions in. Here we go. Okay, all right. Grady. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kinnan. Yes. Kennedy. No. In order to rezone that property, it is described in a rezoning petition, RZN 17-5925, for approximately 1.73 acres, located at 820 South Government Avenue, from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, MSC Main Street Center, and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial. Adele? I read that. Okay. Matthew? Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, um... You know with all due respect to Planning staff and the Planning Commission. I think this rezoning is a mistake I got nothing against what you want to do with your property in terms of expansion being able to work out of the weather I just think we should pursue a different mechanism be able to grant you that permission and This removes the ability to do residential by right in this area, which is where we've designated that it's needed, and we plan for it to be in at least two planning documents. I think that's a critical mistake. We've also heard that the plan is to sell this business and this property within the next generation. We're rezoning this to allow full-scale manufacturing by right, to allow wholesale bulk petroleum storage by right, and any business that needs to do those things is going to look to this property as an opportunity for them to do that without having to come back to the council, even though we've designated this particular area of town as critical for our growth. So I don't think that this zoning is appropriate, although the use is certainly appropriate that's going on there today. I can't support I think there should be a different mechanism pursued. Okay. Mr. Mayor, could I ask Andrew Garner, is there another option? I know this is a non-conforming use and we're usually not allowed to expand a non-conforming use by building what the applicant is requested to do. Is that right? Yeah. We did talk to Mr. Barnes up for quite a, it's been months, maybe even a year or two. It's been an issue for him. The only solution we came up with was... to rezone the property to I-1. The other option would be to rezone to some sort of a PZD that would allow, you know, use student 17 for his trucking business by right but not negate some of the other uses that may be desired. The PZD process It's a little bit more difficult, I think, and in this case for a small parcel, we felt comfortable with it, but I think those are the other options. I don't think there's any legal way that I know of to allow for a nonconforming use to be expanded with an additional building like Mr. Barnes was wanting. Okay. Matthew. I think Andrew's correct when we talk about the laws we have on the books today, but, I mean, I would be— eager to carve out general exemptions for properties that have been in business for so long to allow them to do reasonable expansions, even if their current uses are non-conforming. So I think we want to get creative. There are other ways. Anyway, I've made my case And I don't really have much else to say about it. Okay, Sarah. Yes, if I could ask Mr. Barnes, what is your timeline for expanding your facility? Yeah, are you in a big hurry? Do you need this? You need to come up to speak in the microphone. We need you to use the microphone so I can. I guess what I'm asking is, do you need this tonight or can we have a little bit of time to find a more creative solution that will work for you? We've worked on this for over a year. and trying to get, like to get something going. I wanted to get something before winter. Okay. I do a lot of work outside, and I've also had skin cancers cut out of my arm, and my doctor surgeon will send you a letter or come down here and tell you, you know, but I'm anxious to do something. Okay, but if we hold this for two weeks, is it going to set you back that long? No. Okay. I would like us to go ahead and just leave it on this reading. And that would give, perhaps Alderman Petty would like to make some recommendations to our planning staff. I'm disappointed that this has been going on for over a year, and our planning staff has not approached us asking for help with finding a solution, especially with us being in my ward. But I would just like us to hold this right here and see what we can do for you that will still meet your needs. I appreciate it. And the planning staff, are they— They've got me. You guys deal with this stuff all the time. I do not. They have really helped me a lot, and I'd like to thank them. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Parnes. Okay. We'll hold it on the third reading. It's on the second. It hasn't gone to the third and final. All right. Number two. In Ordinance 10 Act 173.12, specifications for water and sewer lines in Chapter 173, Building Regulations of the Unified Development Code, KIPP. Whereas pursuant to Arkansas code annotated section 14-55-207, the city may adopt by ordinance technical codes, regulations, or standards without including the full text of the regulations in the city code. And whereas the standard specifications for design and construction of water lines and sewer lines 2017 edition has been developed to incorporate changes to the city's regulations recommended by city staff and the Arkansas Department of Health. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enact Section 173.12, Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Lines, and Chapter 173, Building Regulations of the Unified Development Code, as follows. Section 173.12, Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Lines. The City Council adopts the Standard Specifications for Design and Construction of Water Lines and Sewer Lines, 2017 edition, as recommended by the Utilities Director and attached to the enacting ordinance. All technical procedures and design standards contained therein shall be enforceable as part of the Unified Development Code through enforcement procedures of Chapter 153 as well as Section 150.12 penalty, unquote. Okay. Tim. Thank you, Mayor and Council. The most recent version of the standard specs for the design and construction of the water and sewer lines were adopted in 2012. based upon meetings with city staff and input from the public, engineers, and developers. Several changes are recommended by city staff and by the Arkansas Department of Health. Since we've looked at all this, and a new 2017 version has been developed to include these changes. These proposed revisions will, among other things, increase the flexibility in the process, acknowledge cost share opportunities, reduce costs in the installation, and unless specified otherwise will require all materials to be 100% USA domestic. To do the volume of the changes proposed, the Department of Health has required that the 212 edition be replaced with a new 2017 edition in lieu of revising the 2012 edition. The Department of Health has reviewed the proposed addition and has stated that they will approve it upon receipt of the final document approved by the Fayetteville City The Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee discussed the review of the draft on July 17th, or excuse me, July 11th of 2017. There were a few minor changes after that, so the revised revision was taken to the August 8th, 2017 Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee. The committee voted 3-1 to forward the document to the full council with recognition for approval. We have to answer any questions you may have. Mark, do you have any? I know we went through the water. I'll tell you what, this was a... process that I certainly appreciate the staff being involved in and we did review it we made some few changes over the couple of I guess a couple of weeks after we received the initial document but it's necessary in for an order for us to be in compliance with water stewards standards and specifications and health regulations, and it does give us flexibility of cost sharing. And the staff went above and beyond to answer all the concerns we had based on past situations. So I think that this is an incredibly comprehensive and good change. Okay. Oh, I had one of those. There we go, I'm back again. All right, any other questions, comments from the council? Okay, any public mark did you have something? No, I was good. I'm gonna move it along. I got you I'm good. I just see the name and there's any public everybody's getting tired now, aren't they? All right, what any public comment on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring back to council. All right. Okay, mark I'd like just to spin the rules and go to the second reading Okay, we have a motion second to go to the second reading Senator, would you please call the roll? Right. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Inion. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Batch. Yes. Long. Yes. An ordinance to enact Section 173.1.2, Specifications for Water and Sewer Lines in Chapter 173, Building Regulations of the Unified Development Code. Mark. I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Thatch. Yes. Long. Yes. And Norris and Sennac, Section 173.12, Specifications for Water and Sewer Lines in Chapter 173, Building Regulations of the Unified Development Code. Any final comments from the council? Well, I would like to thank the staff. No kidding. I did read that document, which... Took a while. But that was a lot of work. I want to thank the Water and Sewer Committee for their work on this because there were some really good changes, I thought, in that. So I want to thank everybody for all the work on this. All right. Good reading. Yes, it was. It was interesting. Actually, I kind of like some of that kind of stuff, but I've got to be kind of in the mood for it. It's a 20-year water plant. Yeah, it's a fascinating reef. Got to really be into that stuff. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Long? Yes. All right, number three. Kenyon? In order to sway the requirements for a competitive bidding and to approve a contract, the Veritas Research and Consulting LLC and the amount of $3,500 conducted workshop with the city management team to develop an implementation plan based on the Veritas strategic planning final report submitted to the city council after their spring workshop. Kip. Whereas on February 20th, 2017, Mayor Jordan entered in a contract with Inveritas Research and Consulting LLC for the City Council facilitated strategy and planning session in the amount of $19,000, which led to a revision of the city's strategic plan. And whereas the cost of the next phase of implementing the revised strategic plan would require competitive bidding unless weighed by the City Council. And whereas because of its previous work with the mayor and city council, Inveritas has all the relevant background material necessary to economically assist the city in completing the implementation plan based on the strategic planning final report prepared by Inveritas after the spring workshop. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council, the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that the facts shown above establish that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract with the Veritas Research and Consulting LLC in the amount of $3,500 to conduct a workshop for the City Management Team to develop and implement projects and implementation plan based on Inveritas strategic planning final report submitted by the City Council after a spring workshop. And Section 2, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to this through their agenda memo. Okay. Yes, Mayor. Because of the previous work with the Council and the Mayor and Veritas staff has all the relevant background materials in order to complete the implementation schedule of a strategic plan. Since no staff was in attendance at your meetings, it's important that we get the context and the discussion of your goals in setting our management team direction. And so we bring this contract to you for the budget to do so and the bid waiver since In Veritas is a critical component of the successful plan implementation of your plan. Pretty straightforward. Want the management team to be hooked up to what all that we discussed at that meeting and where we're gonna go So any questions for you over there? I don't know what questions you would have so Okay, any public comment on this? All right I'm gonna bring it back to the council Sarah if we suspend the rules and go to the second read Adela I second that you know, we have a motion in a second to go to the second read Sunder which please color Yes Yes Yes. Batch? Yes. Long? Yes. An ordinance to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Inveritas Research and Consulting, LLC, in the amount of $3,500 to conduct a workshop for the city management team to develop an implementation plan based on the Inveritas strategic planning final report submitted to the city council after their spring workshop. Okay. Della. Okay. I move we go to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Batch. Yes. Long. Yes. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Inveritas Research and Consulting LLC in the amount of $3,500 to conduct a workshop for the city management team to develop an implementation plan based on the Inveritas Strategic Planning final report submitted to the city council after their spring workshop. Okay. Any final comments from the council on that? Okay. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Ray Yes Marsh Yes Gingin Yes Eddy Yes Bennett Yes Bunch Yes Yes Okay number four An Ordinance Rezoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5901 for approximately 1.20 acres located at 1100 North Meadowlands Drive from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A. and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from ro residential office to cs community services section two that the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of fables reflects a zoning change provided in section one okay andrew this property is located at the northeast corner of medellin's drive and whettington drive it's an undeveloped greenfield site it's currently zoned ro office This was discussed at the September 11th Planning Commission meeting where the applicant was proposing to rezone the property to C2 thoroughfare commercial. The Planning Commission denied the request and they've appealed the request to the Council. With this appeal they have amended their zoning request to CS Community Services. Community Services is a mixed-use form-based zoning district that allows a mix of retail and residential. One of the main issues that were discussed at the Planning Commission meeting was around the fact that the commission did not want to allow continuation of highway commercial strip development along weddington so that was the reason for the denial This is a part of the Weddington neighborhood plan. There's a corridor plan that was adopted a couple of years ago and one of the main elements of the plan is really to bring back pedestrians to this area including along Weddington. So here's a quick snippet from the plan. You can see this corner was shown to have some non-residential buildings with parking to the side or to the rear so the community services zoning would be in line with that plan and we're recommending approval of the request. If you have any questions, please let me know. Okay, what questions do we have for Andrew on this? I should note that I drafted it in this form after speaking with the applicant immediately after the Planning Commission meeting, seeing what had happened, and rather than him having to go back through the whole process again, he decided to change his request to comply with what the Planning Commission and the Planning Department had recommended. And so I drafted it. as Community Services which was going to be their recommendation And so that's why it's drafted in that way rather than his original request if he had not agreed to that He could have appealed his original request to the City Council and then the ordinance would have been what he originally requested But I felt like it would smooth the process a lot better And and so I talked to him about it and he was agreeable to do that And that's what why it's this way before you is the applicant here. I My name is Heath Myers and we're Bluenut Associates and I'm representing this project. Do we have any questions for the applicant? I just want to confirm, this is in fact now your request. You decided to change it for the City Council to request the community services? Oh yes, we did. Okay. Thank you. All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Probably not. All right. I'll bring it back to the Council. Matthew. I'm here to move and go to the second reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinton. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Munch. Yes. Long. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5901 for approximately 1.2 acres located at 1100 North Meadowlands Drive from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services. So moved. Motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adela. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hingin. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Hinnant. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Long. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property is cried in rezoning petition RZN 17-5901 for approximately 1.2 acres located 1100 North Meadowlands Drive from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I have a couple of announcements for the public and the council. We're having our 19th annual celebration of trees giveaway on Saturday, October the 28th. This will take place at the Arvest Bank Plaza on Center Street on the downtown historic square We're giving away trees and shrubs. The list can be found on the city's website, but some of the options available are viburnums, Carolina buckhorns, eagleson hollies, pawpaws, pecans, persimmons, redbuds, white oaks, willow oaks. So please come out to that. It begins at 7 a.m. on that Saturday. Additionally, our last fall bulk waste cleanup date is also on Saturday, October the 28th, from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. This is our location in our Ward 2 area. The Ward 2 location will be Woodland Junior High School at 1 East Poplar Street, and the recycling and trash collection facility will also take items. It's available to any city community. a citizen who is a paying rate payer of the waste and recycling division. Not specific just to that ward, but since we've been moving them around, that's where the last one will be for this fall. So if you want to clean out before Christmas holidays, this is your last chance to do so. Thank you. before the spring ones. The animal shelter is going to host, also on October the 28th, the Adoption Spooktacular. So if you would like a cat or a dog, there will be special fees for adoptions with that event on October the 28th. And for those who... enjoy the greedy goats or who didn't see them in the past and want to see them now. They are currently working in Wilson Park. They started yesterday, and they go through the 21st, helping us remove invasive plants in our Wilson Park. Okay. Mr. Mayor, I have a couple just updates on the only two cases, fortunately, that we were involved with after— The city council decided they had to raise and remove Mr. Harmon's house. He eventually sued us and asked for an injunction, declaratory judgment against us. He asked for an emergency one, and it was immediately turned down by the judge, and I have since filed an answer and a motion for summary judgment, which I believe we're on strong grounds and are just awaiting for him to reply and then for the judge to rule on that. The other issue, of course, is the uniform civil rights protection ordinance. We had a hearing before Judge Martin in September, and he ruled in our favor from the bench, but just today I received his statement. his final order on the motion to quash where I have been seeking to depose Senator Hester and Representative Ballinger, the two sponsors of the act that the Supreme Court says has invalidated our ordinance. in order to delve in a little bit more to their motivations for bringing that act and whether or not it was brought to target our civil rights ordinance and other cities that had done the same thing. The judge agreed with me that I should be able to question them, that that is probably going to be appealed to the Supreme Court, and so... Before any other hearings, there will probably be a Supreme Court hearing on both that and also the motion for preliminary injunction that the AG had filed and that was also denied at that time. So those are the only two significant cases we have ongoing, and I just thought I should bring you up to date on what the judge ruled. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your work on that. All right. Any other announcements? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.