Yay! We're going to make quorum. We should note for all the applicants, though, that in order to pass an ordinance or resolution, it requires five affirmative votes, not a majority of the people that are here. So any ordinance or resolution will require, at this point, a unanimous decision by the four aldermen and Mayor Jordan. Yes, Councilman, please wait. Here.
 Mars.
 Here.
 Inez.
 Teddy.
 Bennett.
 Schottmar.
 Latour.
 Here.
 Long.
 Here.
 Jordan. Mayor Jordan. Here. You join me in the pledge of allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. We accept the consent agenda as read. i'll second that we have a motion in a second and a second to accept the consent agenda yes yes yes okay thank you all i'm sorry yeah another pitch business number one The North Street zone that is described in the zone petition is the N16-5543, approximately 21.4 acres, located at 3434 North Crossover Road from RA Residential Agricultural to RT12 Residential 2 and 3 Family, P1 Institutional, and CS Community Services. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second meeting. So moved. Okay. And Sarah? Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kinnitt? Yes. Long? Yes. Jordan? Yes. Okay. The motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading was passed. in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 16-5543 for approximately 21.4 acres located at 3 34 34 north crossover road from residential agricultural to rt12 residential two and three family and p1 institutional and cs community services jeremy Mayor, Council, good evening. I don't have any further updates other than to say we did receive a few emails. I believe all those were forwarded to you through the city clerk's office about this item. If you'll remember, this is a rezoning request on the east side of Crossover near Birdie and Birdie Drive and Parr Court. The request is for three different zoning districts, 2.6 acres to community services along Crossover Road, 8.2 acres to B1 Institutional, and 10.5 acres to RT12. What questions do we have in the council on this? Anything? Okay, I'm going to open it up to the public. Does anyone like to address us on this? Please introduce yourself. I'm Elizabeth Link. I work with Foster Development. We're the ones proposing the senior living community with the assisted living, the memory care for folks with Alzheimer's, independent living, and then community service that will just support families for the most part, the needs of the residents. We're hoping, you know, for a nice pharmacy and a few other uses. I'm here tonight, first off, tell you your staff is great to work with. They've been nothing but helpful with us. And to encourage you, hopefully, to vote tonight, we have applied at the state for the 100 beds that we're planning at this location. And the state requires that zoning be underway when you apply, but they want it finished before they make their determination, which will happen next week. So I'm hoping that you all can consider this motion tonight. If you have any questions, I'd love to answer them. Do we have any questions for the applicant? Don? No. There are no questions. I don't have a question for the applicant, but Alderman Tennant asked me to read an email that he sent today. I am hung up in Little Rock on business. We have every intention of trying to be at the meeting. He subsequently is called to say that he is not going to be able to be here on time. However, if I'm late dealing with Little Rock traffic and may miss the unfinished business concerning the rezoning of the land off of 265, I do not wish to hold it any longer and would request if it is mentioned that my absence warrants holding it another two weeks. I do not wish it to be held, but rather voted on tonight. So, yes, and I share that with you. Okay. Thank you, Don. Anybody else from that? Any other questions or comments from the council? I have one question for her. What would happen then if you didn't get this approved tonight? Would you not be able to get approved by the state? I'd have to reapply. And it's a three month process, but we've already missed the next application date. So it would delay six months. Six months? OK. Anything else? None? OK. Any other questions or anything? Okay. Any other public comment on this? Oh, Alan. Nope. Okay. Y'all are working me over tonight. Yes, please come up and introduce yourself. My name is Lisa Riley, and I'm actually speaking for my parents, Patricia and Dr. Emmy Hopkins, and they live on Park Court, and they respectfully would ask that this not be passed. 265 has underwent a great deal of road improvement construction and it has made that area very busy and congested. And they feel like this would of course increase the load of traffic there. And they would ask that you think about another location. And also this the widening of 265 was viewed as a way to be a thoroughfare for north-south traffic and if this Proposal goes in it really will slow traffic quite a bit there I'm sure there would be a light there and it doesn't seem consistent with the thoroughfare idea and I Property values will go down for the people who have homes along 265 with this amount of commercial activity. So they ask that you consider not rezoning. Okay. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else like to address this? All right, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I believe the applicant got up like she wanted to speak. I'd like to bring her back if she has further comments. Sure. I just wanted to respond to the traffic issue. I think I brought this up at the last hearing. The number of trips – peak hour trips for the assisted living and memory care is below 30 in the morning during the peak hour. It's below 20 peak hour in the evening. The impact from our project will be negligible on crossover. And from a use of utilities, traffic, whatever, our project is one of the lowest possible creations of demand that there is. Thank you. Yes, Mayor, I was just going to address essentially the same thing she said. I think that we need to keep in mind that this is an assisted living, that means a senior area, and so there probably will not be a lot of congestion at the peak hours of traffic. That's exactly what I was thinking. So I'm glad that you who have done these kinds of projects know those facts. Sarah I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading John Second that motion. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading Sandra would you please call the roll? Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes And your industry zone that property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 16-55 43 for approximately 21.4 acres Located at 34 34 North Crossover Road from our a residential agricultural to our T Residential two and three family p1 institutional and CS community services. Okay any final comments from the council on this? All right Sunder would you please call the road? Yes Yes Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I didn't know if I had to vote or not. Did it take six? You don't have to vote on that one. I'm sorry. Okay. Just checking. All right. Well, I guess you know how I would have voted if I had not. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5550 for approximately 70 acres located east and west of Ruppel Road and south of Mount Comfort Road from RSF 1, residential single family, one unit per acre, RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, and RA residential agricultural to CS community services and RA residential agricultural. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Okay. Oh, John. Mary, I'll move we go to the second reading. Submit the rules and have a discussion about it. Okay. Della? I second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. With the maker and seconder, please put the motions in. Audemars Piguet, could you hit motion on your screen? Thank you so much. Don't read this. It's just easier to read that, right? Everything's good. All right. Right. Yes. Yes. March. Yes. Candy. Yes. LeTourne. Yes. Wong. Yes. Mayor Jordan. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property is cried in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5550 for approximately 70 acres located east and west of Rufo Road and south of Mount Comfort Road from RSF 1, residential single family, one unit per acre, RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, and RA Residential Agricultural to Community Services and Residential Agricultural. Okay. Jeremy, you got anything else? Nothing new. You'll recall this property is on Westmount Comfort Road near the RuPaul Road intersection, and the request is to rezone about 42 1⁄2 acres to community services, and the balance, which is 27 1⁄2 acres to residential agricultural. Staff and the Planning Commission are supportive of this request. Y'all are supportive of that request? Okay. Yes. What questions do we have from the council? Anything? Allen? No. I am getting a lot of public input on this. It is such a big parcel, and I did speak with the property owner. It will literally, if rezone, change the face of this area of our community. So I would like it to go for the full three readings just to give the public enough time to give the input that they would like to get. Okay. I don't have to go any further anyway. But I will take some public comment on this. Thank you. Hi, good evening. I am Meredith Hornberger. I live at 3653 West Country Meadows Street. My family and I just purchased a new home that's right across the street from Salem, sorry, from West Country Meadows Street. Holcomb grade school so our daughter could go there we moved away from Weddington for a very specific purpose for The noise control and because of the crime and it's just too busy So there's a reason that we moved off of at Mount Comfort and onto Salem my biggest issue with this rezoning is I The schools, the schools are located just off of Mount Comfort and Holt Middle School and the Holcomb Grade School. The safety of our children is paramount, and bringing in businesses without sufficient infrastructure could have a seriously negative impact. Pick up and drop off at both schools is very busy, and businesses setting up on Mount Comfort will inevitably bring additional traffic on Salem Road and Ruppel Road. These roads cannot support the increase. We already see unsafe driving actions by those trying to pass by the school around parents waiting to pick up children. These roads cannot, absolutely cannot, support more traffic at this time. And secondly, my concern is regarding the safety for bicyclists and runners along Mount Comfort. My husband bikes to and from work every single day, and I run on Mount Comfort every day as well. And currently, Mount Comfort is very friendly for biking and running and other outdoor activities. However, my concern is that we will lose our sidewalks and bike lanes to provide space for a turning lane or other widening projects. The current right of way on Mount Comfort has already been used to its capacity. Without proper build out, biking and running will not be possible, and as a community that prides itself on an outdoor lifestyle for its residents, this does not provide that. As residents of Mount Comfort area, we understand the growth and development will continue. We just ask for safety to be of paramount importance, and that great attention be given to help maintain the community we built. Also, last time I was here, you guys had said that you want to make it more livable for us over off of Mount Comfort. I have to state, we're five minutes away from Walmart on Weddington, and we're five minutes away from Sam's Club to get our gas. We're 10 minutes away from Target. We don't need anything local to come to us when we're already out, About doing stuff we have complete access to stories and so saying that we need more livable conveniences Just is not worth it in my book. So thank you for your time Good evening. My name is Amanda Quinn and I live at 2388 waterway Drive it's part of the clobber Creek subdivision, which is located off of Mount Comfort Road and As a resident in West Fayetteville, I appreciate the time to be able to share my thoughts on the rezoning of Mount Comfort. We all know that Fayetteville is a growing community and that residential areas continue to grow. As this occurs, it's understandable that additional businesses need to come in to support the infrastructure. Other commercial areas of the city become overburdened with traffic that's coming in and out. We understand that. And so building up along Mount Comfort will help support the residents that are there. My concern regarding the proposed rezoning of this land is that if it's not managed appropriately as we've had other residents say, it will become another Weddington. We know that we've taken a lot of time to try and fix Weddington. I've seen that happen. A lot of strides have been made, but there still is really high traffic and high crime in that area. Mount Comfort has a lot of residential areas. It's all just families and homes, and we're just concerned that that's going to happen along our road. We talked about livable areas and again I understand that as it grows that we need to bring services in and that has to happen. But my question is if we want to create livable areas don't we want to bring in business that supports those residents of that area? And so my thoughts are, if we're going to do that, then why don't we make sure that when we rezone this land, that we set regulations for those businesses that come in that will help attract the right businesses, like make sure they're brick and mortar, that they have sufficient lighting, that there's programs to maintain the property, that they have greenery to help maintain the feeling of that area. and that they have a robust system to be able to maintain the water runoff that's really bad out there when it rains it just there's so much water there used to be ponds all over that area so when the water comes up it just goes everywhere and some of the businesses along that road if they put in the water will run off directly from all those big parking lots into the backyards of homes um and then also to have a plan from businesses to maintain the creeks that are around there so these are just a couple of thoughts i had that might be able to help maintain that area should we bring business in One other concern that we've addressed a lot is safety along that road. As I drive up and down Mount Comfort every day, on the east end closest to I-49, there are several side streets, and since there is no turning lane, there are people that have to sit there for up to five minutes to be able to make a left-hand turn and go east on Mount Comfort, because there's no way to get into a turning lane and then work your way over into traffic. I also see from the houses that sit directly on Mount Comfort that have these little short driveways because of the right-of-way that goes through, they actually back out of their driveways into oncoming traffic and weave their way over into eastbound traffic. It is so scary to watch. So if we're increasing traffic to that area, it's only going to get worse. And again, the right-of-way is used up, so we don't have room currently where we're at. Okay. So again, I understand that the build out has to come, but I just ask that as a council that we consider measures we can do to make sure it's safety, that we can make sure that we have the infrastructure built out to support it, and that we bring in the right business to actually make it a true livable area. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I understand we're gonna hold it on this reading, correct? All right. All right, under new business, Number one, the ordinance waives the requirements for competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of a leak detection system pilot program from Mueller Systems LLC in the amount of $26,985. Kip? Kip? Whereas the city has implemented a leak detection program to reduce the amount of unmetered water loss in the city's water distribution system and Staff recommends that the City Council approve the purchase and implementation of an automatic leak detention system pilot program to compare its effectiveness to other measures the city has taken and whereas a Mueller MI Echo leak detection system is the only automated leak detection system compatible with the Mueller fire hydrants in use within the city's water distribution system, and Mueller Systems LLC is the only distributor of that system. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds that such circumstances constitute an exceptional situation where competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and, therefore, waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of an automatic leak detection system pilot program from Mueller Systems, LLC, in the amount of $26,985. Okay. Jeremy. Jeremy. Or I'm sorry Tim Thank you. Mr. Mayor. I think it really wrapped it up there We're always looking for new ways for leak detection to try to account for unmetered water loss What we're seeking to conduct is a pilot study with Mueller that this mi echo leak detection system The pilot area will be installed bordered by East Township North Juneway Terrace East Elm Street and North old wire road. I The system will be installed in the fire hydrants and it uses radio frequencies to collect the data from the pipelines This entire area will be acoustically surveyed by the system and the detected leaks will be viewed by the utility Mueller is the only company that offers this type of system Which is compatible with the city's Mueller Centurion fire hydrants for that reason. We are requesting a bid waiver. I This measure was presented to the Water and Sewer Committee on September 27th and was unanimously forwarded to the City Council for approval. I'll be happy to answer any questions that you might have. Okay, what questions do we have for Tim on this? John. Tim, we're locating this system near Township, east of Township. Will it monitor the entire system or just that area? It'll just monitor that area within the system as a pilot study to see how well it works. And did we select that area because we suspect a great number of leaks there? We do suspect it's an older system. We suspect that we will find some leaks. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay. Thank you, Tim. What public comment do we have on this? See now, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Allen. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Ryan. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. McHugh. Yes. Long. Yes. Mayor Jordan. Yes. In order to sway the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of the leak detection system pilot program from Mueller Systems LLC in the amount of $26,985. Allen. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. O'Sheriff. Yes. Long. Yes. Mayor Jordan. Yes. In order to sway the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of a leak detection system pilot program from Mueller Systems LLC in the amount of $26,985. Okay, any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll? Right. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. LeChier. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number two, in order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 16-5566 for approximately 1.53 acres located at 1615 East Hospital Road from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to CS Community Services. Kip. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and their legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, to community services. Section 2 that City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are to hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Yeah, this is an acre and a half parcel located on the south side of Huntsville Road. It's east of Sherman Avenue west of Happy Hollow Road to the east properties developed currently with a 1500 square foot detached single-family structure There is a large portion of the property that's cleared but not developed The current zoning is RSF 4 as you can see here on your maps. It's surrounded by a variety of zones commercial commercial c1 ro p1 rmf24 as well as a couple of parcels that have been rezoned recently to community services this request is to also rezone the property to community services which is one of our form-based zones we believe that the zoning along a collector street huntsville road would allow increased density and potential for smaller commercial just based on the size of the property in a mixed use that could serve this neighborhood within walking distance encouraging a pattern of development that we find compatible with existing properties this is a city neighborhood area in our future land use map and certainly supports this type of zoning the planning commission agreed with that analysis and voted 9-0 in favor of the request and staff is recommending approval any questions from the council any public comment on this okay back to the council Sarah I have not received any negative comments about this from my constituents and overall there has been great support for increasing community services in this area of the neighborhood so with that I would move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading Alan second motion second to go to the second reading Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ray? Yes. Mark? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Yes. Mark? Yes. Mayor Jordan? Yes. And in order to rezone that property, described in rezone petition RZN 16-5566 for approximately 1.53 acres located at 1615 East Huntsville Road from residential single family, four units per acre, two community services. Allen? Yes. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Third and final reading, I'm sorry. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sorry. Senator, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Heddy. Yes. Yes. Long. Yes. Mayor Jordan. Yes. And in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-5566 for approximately an acre and a half located at 1615 East Huntsville Road from residential single family four units per acre to community services. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please go on the roll? Craig? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. yes yes okay thank you all number three an order to rezone that property describing the zone petition RZN 16-55 73 for approximately point seven three acres located at the southwest corner of North Street and College Avenue from our residential office to UT urban thoroughfare kit it ordained by the City Council of the City of Federal Arkansas section one that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.O. Residential Office to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Chairman, there are three parcels totaling three-quarters of an acre for this request. It's at the southwest corner of North Street and College Avenue. The property is currently developed at the Lazenby Real Estate Office Building as well as a small commercial office building constructed in the 1940s. the request is to rezone the property from residential office to urban thoroughfare urban thoroughfare is our most dense and intense zoning district form-based zoning district outside of the downtown core areas that we have in the downtown we believe this zoning is largely compatible with nearby properties i'm looking at the aerial photograph here and knowing this property you know that uams is located directly to the north of this property the associated parking lot owned by Washington County to the east, commercial properties to the northeast, and commercial properties to the south as well. There are residential properties to the west. This is the eastern boundary of the Wilson Park neighborhood. Pollard Avenue really represents the boundary of that area. However, along North Street, that area does not have residences within this vicinity. This is primarily utilized for parking and as well as an office building, converted office We believe the urban thoroughfare zoning district would allow for a mixture of both dwelling types if this project or this property develops as residentially, but also a dynamic range of residential and non-residential development could occur here with built-to zones that is in the form that we're desiring encouraging with our city plan 2030. We also believe the location of this property makes Urban Thoroughfare the best fit for this property along two arterial streets at the corner of two principal arterial streets. The Planning Commission voted 9-0 in favor of this request, and staff is also supporting the rezoning.
 Okay. What questions do we have from the council, Chair? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? I am going to bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Allen. Aye. i second that we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading son would you please call the role for the neighbor and secondary please thank you right yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes ordinance rezone that property inscribed and rezoning petition RZM 16-55 73 for approximately 0.7 three acres located at the southwest corner of North Street and College Avenue from residential office to urban thoroughfare sir will we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Adele I second that motion we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading I think third and final sorry to the third reading Senator, would you please call the roll? Craig? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Heddy? Yes. LeGere? Yes. Long? Yes. Mary Jordan? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5573 for approximately three-quarters of an acre located at southwest corner of North Street and College Avenue from residential office to urban thoroughfare. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Okay. Summers, please call the roll. Ryan? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Yes. Long? Yes. Okay. Number four. The northern street zone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5576 for approximately 3.65 acres located at 1160 South Happy Hollow Road from C2 Thurford Commercial and RSF4 residential single family 4 units per acre to I1 heavy commercial and light industrial and RA residential agricultural. Thank you. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Federal Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Federal Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal descriptions of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from C2, Thoroughfare Commercial and RSF4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to I1, Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial, and RA, Residential Agricultural. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Archive hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. OK. Chairman. these properties are located on the east side of happy hollow road just north of 13th street and our activity access to our transportation services and recycling trash collection facilities there's about 3.6 acres on the property and primarily zoned c2 as you can see here on the map with a small corner zoned rsf4 The request is to rezone both of these properties from C2 and RSF4 to 3.4 acres of I1, which is our heavy commercial light industrial zoning district, and a little less than a quarter acre to residential agricultural. That quarter acre can be seen here on the far right of your screen, essentially along the residential neighborhood that's accessed off of Ray Avenue and Helen Street. The property is located on a principal arterial, which is Highway 16 here. Current land uses, as you know, vary significantly along this corridor, ranging from I-2, which is heavy commercial, heavy industrial uses like the trash and recycling facility. Also White River Hardwoods is in this area, the city's transportation facilities. There's also some residential housing further to the west of Happy Hollow Road. We found that the I-1 zoning district would be generally compatible with the wide spectrum of existing uses. They're both industrial and commercial and then some residential in this area. About 10,000 square feet or a little less than a quarter of an acre on the eastern edge is proposed to be rezoned residential agricultural. We support this as well. It's heavily vegetated here with mature trees, and this would help to screen future development from that single-family existing neighborhood to the east. Also, it would limit some of the development along the riparian corridor. This is the tributary here, the West Fork of the White River. Staff is supportive of this request, finding it meets the intent of the city plan 2030 and the city neighborhood area designation by allowing development that can potentially promote employment opportunities adjacent to residential areas. Staff is supportive of the request, as was the planning commission, 8-0. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this one? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. okay and we're bringing back to the council sarah i mean if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading adele i second that motion if motion is second to go to the second reading sondra would you please call the road right yes marsh yes yes yes yes mayor jordan yes In order to rezone that property, describe in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5576, or approximately 3.65 acres, located at 1160 South Happy Hollow Road, from C2, third-fair commercial, and RSF4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to I1, heavy commercial and light industrial, and RA, residential agricultural. Sarah I mean we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Adele a second that motion we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final reading Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Teddy? Yes. O'Tier? Yes. Long? Yes. Mayor Jordan? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5576 for approximately 3.65 acres located at 1160 South Happy Hollow Road from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to I1 heavy commercial and light industrial and RA residential agricultural. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Adele? Oh, okay. All right. No final comments from the council. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. all right number five in order to approve vacation 16-55 said once submitted by georgians and associates incorporated to vacate a portion of jupiter drive from mcguire street to aep to the aep substation kit whereas the city council has the authority under aca 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes Whereas the City Council has determined that the following described Street is is not required for corporate purposes and whereas Van Ash Drive was recently built to a four-lane Boulevard standards to replace Jupiter Drive and to connect McGuire Street and Ball Street and Whereas all property owners along Jupiter Drive have requested that Jupiter Drive be vacated from McGuire Street to the AEP substation now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby vacate Jupiter Drive from McGuire Street to the AEP substation as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed to the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1. Any relocation or damage to utilities and associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. 2. A water line easement shall be retained in the amount of 10 feet on either side of the existing water line that is located along Jupiter Drive. Any relocation of this water line shall be at the owner-developer's expense. number three the cox fiber line within jupiter drive right-of-way shall be relocated at the owner developer's expense prior to approval to vacate the street until the fiber line is relocated the right-of-way must remain and number four all of the owners of the vacated right-of-way property shall contractually agree in writing that upon or before 50 or more of the property they now own north of van ash drive that is within the city limits of favor is approved by final plat or large-scale development they will construct a public street connection between ball street and mcguire street north of van ash drive okay jeremy this property is in the very far northern edge of the city limits the western portion of jupiter street is a subject property it's about 1.8 acres adjacent to the city of johnson jupiter street is an unimproved two-lane asphalt road it provides an east-west connection between south mcguire street and south ball street formerly it was the only connection within the city limits between these two streets before van asch was constructed within the last year The request is to vacate the portion of right-of-way from McGuire Street eastward to where the existing AEP Swept Co. electric substation is located. On this map, it's the little green dot there on the right-hand side of where the right-of-way is shown. That's about 2,000 linear feet or as I mentioned 1.8 acres. As you all know Van Asch Drive now connects North Gregg Avenue all the way to Highway 112 with four and five lane sections and a median, five foot sidewalk along the north side of the roadway and 10 foot shared use trail with a five foot sidewalk along the south side of the roadway. the new this new portion of van ashe of course parallels the subject site of jupiter street the applicant is proposing to close this section of jupiter street and vacate the driveway to facilitate future development of the area staff recommended in favor of the request the planning commission also recommended in favor eight to one there was some discussion about providing additional connectivity with a smaller local street this is almost 100 acres and so i'm Future smaller a local street connections would certainly be necessary for future development. Mr. Williams has drafted a condition of approval number four that he read related to a contractual agreement Prior to finalization a large-scale development or final approval of a final plat whichever might occur on this property All the property owners of that vacated right away would have to agree to construct a street in such in in that manner mr williams also read the conditions about utilities there are some utilities in this area and so any relocation of those would have to be coordinated with the cities or the with the city or the utility provider and that will be done entirely at the owner and developer's expense those conditions are listed in the ordinance this item was discussed at the last transportation committee meeting we don't discuss all vacations there but when we have an active street that's currently utilized we do take those to the transportation committee mr petty can maybe explain what happened there but there's been some requests for different conditions of approval by the applicant that were discussed at that meeting i don't believe there's been any changes as of yet though the council members from nelson ward three correct seven four is that here y'all okay Mr. Mayor, I think the applicant's here, but I'll have some comments after he has a chance to speak, or the representative of the applicant. Yes, the applicant. Yes. Good evening. Justin Jorgensen with Jorgensen Associates, and I am the representative on this, and I'd be glad to answer any questions. I know that there was some communication between Mr. Terminello and yourself, and where that ended, I'm not exactly sure, so I can't speak to that exactly. I'll kind of be, if you can help me out there, I mean. I would report to the City Council that we really don't have a firm agreement with the applicant at this point about the conditions of approval and in fact they might require some additional work regardless. I want to make sure that in the interim since we've done this we got with our Fayetteville water department and the main that is there currently. in operation is part of a loop system so that the new main will have to be constructed by the applicant and be made ready to go and probably hooked up to our system before the other main is taken out of operation. service and therefore it would be unlikely that really the vacation could go forward until that has happened because I think that there is some intent to do some grading there that might impossibly damage the water main. So we want to make sure that would not happen until the replacement main has been done. So I don't think we should probably advance this tonight. I think that there is more work to be done on that. And I want to apologize a little bit to the applicant as well as to the city council. I've been spending most of my time recently trying to finish my brief to the Supreme Court, and so I haven't been able to spend as much time on this as I would have liked to try to get this in better form. But I think at this time we should probably leave it on the first reading. Okay. Any questions from the council on this? Is that good? Okay. Oh, yes, Al. Well, I'd just like to say that I think we have some people here from the public, too, but I would like to hold this on the first reading. Okay. All right. Who would like to address this on this tonight? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. And so I guess we'll wait two weeks, correct? All right. All right. Number six, a resolution to grant the appeal of Tim Rizal of Legacy Ventures and to approve a large-scale development 16-5488, Macy Drive Town Homes who has this? I do Mayor. I'll present this. This is a large scale development that ultimately was denied by the Planning Commission. The applicant has appealed in a timely manner and properly to the City Clerk's Office for you all to consider. This property is an undeveloped portion of land south of a tributary to Hamstring Creek north of Pine Valley subdivision. A map here you can kind of show a little context. Pine Valley is accessed off of Shiloh, which is accessed off of Mount Comfort Road near the I-49 interchange there at Porter and Mount Comfort. You can see this property is sort of north and west of the Pine Valley subdivision. Pine Valley is all of the orange there in your map. the proposal has developed 11 new residential structures this would have 57 multifamily units with associated parking as part of the project the applicant would be extending what's called Macy Drive which is the drive here simply just north along the property line in order to allow for the development proposal I'm going to scroll to that development so you can see Site plan so this is Macy Drive that would be extended into the site And then this parking area and all these these are dwelling units here and dwelling units here Would access from that from that area As you may imagine there was some conversation by neighbors around the access point Traffic safety as there often is with large-scale development. This would have one access point through the Pine Valley subdivision to Shiloh Drive and ultimately to Mount Comfort and This was reviewed by the Subdivision Committee as is normal, the Planning Commission also, the Planning Commission tabled it to ask some questions about the applicant about some architectural elevations but also to have staff analyze traffic accident data and do some analysis to determine if the project would in fact compound or create a dangerous traffic condition which is one of the tests of the large scale development at september 12th the planning commission one member of the public spoke in favor of the development but then there was also some certainly some neighbors that have been opposed to this project planning and engineering looked at Similar intersections in the city and provided some of that data for you here in the agenda packet We reviewed Mount Comfort and Shiloh as it compared to other similar intersections across Fayetteville We found that based on the traffic generated from the development. It would not In fact compound or create a dangerous traffic hazard at that signalized intersection and We also looked at accident data within the neighborhood itself, within Pine Valley. And the way these are accident data is generated is by intersection. So if something happens mid-block, it's assigned to an intersection. So that's simply how the data is collected. It's not really conclusive all the time that an intersection is, in fact, the dangerous part. But we did just want to make sure that you're aware that that's how the data is collected. We did that for Pine Valley subdivision to essentially assess the conditions within the neighborhood. We made the same conclusions there. We did not feel with the traffic that's proposed out of this development that it would compound or create a dangerous traffic hazard. Ideally, it would have a second way in and out of this neighborhood. It's not required by our city codes. there is a as you can see the property boundary does extend it appears up to Mount Comfort Road however that's a very long street connection that would have to happen across a tributary of hamstring Creek as you all know when we look at a large-scale development and make recommendations for improvements like sidewalks or street improvements you know traffic signals we have to assess the impact the development will have the size of the development upon infrastructure we did not feel that the size of this particular development would warrant requiring them to extend a street or drive all the way north to Mount Comfort Road in this particular case, particularly when our codes don't require that connection. staff made a recommendation in favor of that request in favor of the large-scale development finding it met all relevant Unified Development Code requirements Planning Commission discussed it at length and ultimately was a split vote three in favor five against the large-scale development So the applicant is here to present their case. I have site plans and elevations throughout the project throughout the staff agenda packet this is one of those applications where you certainly can talk about the development you're looking at the site plans here but really the relevant discussion here and why it was denied by the planning commission is that there was a concern about traffic safety so we'd recommend that be the primary point of conversation we did include conditions of approval for the project there are 14 conditions approval most of those are standard conditions found with all large-scale developments But we are recommending approval as is the resolution before you. Okay. All right. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? John. Jeremy, why, I mean, in my mind, if we only have one way in and out, if there's an accident there or we get heavy snow and that road is blocked and there's an emergency in that neighborhood, it seems like I'd like to have two ways in and out at least. Why is the plan department not concerned with that? as i mentioned ideally we would have two ways or even more ways in and out there are a number of neighborhoods that only have one way in and out in our city our policy now as a city council as adopted policy is to have a high degree of connectivity which essentially means we want streets to connect to one another for that very purpose if you have an accident if you have a street closed down for water line repairs as we oftentimes do or sewer line repairs or any of those types of things you have another means of access In this particular case, you have a property that simply doesn't lend itself to a lot of those access points. It's at the end of a neighborhood that was already fully developed. It has essentially one access point to Shiloh Drive. As a city, we're bound to only require – infrastructure improvements that are relative in terms of impacts and influence to the development being proposed So yes, you're exactly right an ideal world We would ask for another street connection to have another point of access up to Mount Comfort Road the expense However, and the burden of placing that upon the applicant we feel was too much too great for the size of the developments being proposed I find it almost humorous. You're arguing my points, and I'm arguing your points, usually. It seems to me, when I look at the map, there's no development between this proposed development and Mount Comfort. It looks like it would be a straight shot up to Mount Comfort to the north to put in a road and a bridge. I haven't put the pencil to it. I don't know what the economics are, meaning it may be cost prohibitive. And I'm a big advocate of evaluating costs and benefits. So the cost may outweigh the benefit. I understand that. But that's what concerns me about this development, is that we don't have, and we're not requiring another way out. It looks like we could have another way out. And that's probably a good question for the applicant. So Jeremy before staff recommended it in favor of this did has anyone from planning driven through after 5 p.m When people are home from work because what I've noticed while driving through the neighborhood And I've gone several times just to make sure is that cars do park on the street And so that significantly narrows the street so if there was an accident It would prevent an emergency vehicle from being able to enter the neighborhood and that that does concern me a great deal. I So, I mean, has anyone looked at that? We have been. The city staff visited the site on a couple of different occasions when we were doing the traffic analysis. I don't know what time they visited the site, however. OK, but generally probably not after working hours? Probably not after working hours. OK, just wanted to check. Thank you. OK, anybody else? All right, is the applicant here? Would they like to say a few words to us? Hi there. Good evening. My name's Tim Bryzell. I'm the developer. I'm with Legacy Ventures. The design team has worked, as Mr. Pate said, we've worked diligently on several different iterations with planning staff and engineering, and we've come up with a plan, a proposal that meets or exceeds all of the development requirements in the city of Fayetteville. Again, as he said, city planning staff recommended approval of the project to the planning commission. We all know what happened to planning commission. That's why we're here this evening. Planning commission denied it. Most of the conversation was about the accidents and safety within the development itself. So Sergeant Craig Stout was kind enough to pull all of the accident data that actually occurred within that development. So we researched all those accidents, compiled our findings, and basically found that there's no factual data to substantiate the claim that there's a safety issue within that Pine Valley community itself. Since 2011, there's been 13 accidents. Basically, all 13 of those accidents involved a moving vehicle hitting a parked car, a parked trailer on the road, a mailbox, a privacy fence, etc. Something like that. I mean there was absolutely There's no injuries the average estimated damages from the police reports are a thousand to two thousand dollars So essentially we've got a bunch of Fender not a bunch. We've got 13 fender benders that took place Okay it's also interesting to note that nine of these accidents occurred when it was dark a vast majority of those occurred between 12 o'clock and 3 30 a.m okay you've got a demographic in this community that is younger professionals college students Essentially driving home after being out and about and maybe not as alert as possible, that's when the majority of the accidents took place. And again, those accidents were simply fender benders, no personal injury whatsoever. So and that comes directly from Craig Stout, right? i'm happy to provide them i've got all 13 accident reports from the police department right there it's also interesting to note that since being denied at planning commission we spoke with we had a meeting with planning staff with the planners with the engineers i specifically asked them the point of our meeting the objective is to determine if there's anything else that you guys see that we could do to make this situation safer And it was a pretty silent meeting. You know, there was a couple things, a couple recommendations, maybe some additional signage. You know, you're not supposed to park X amount of feet within the corner. There's a lot of cars parked. I mean, all of these accidents are the result of cars being parked on the road, on the street. So there was some, maybe we can put up some additional no parking signs. some crosswalks, some hatching at the crosswalks, but again, that's not really relevant. The most relevant thing is cars parked on the street and the fender benders there. So I've got all the data, I've got some graphics, I can provide that to you guys, we can put in a thumb drive and look at where each and every accident took place if you would like. But the bottom line is I feel strongly we've met all of the requirements to develop this piece of property in the city of Fayetteville. There's no facts that show that there's an actual safety issue that takes place there. So I'm happy to answer any questions. Al. Hi, Brian. Thank you for coming tonight. So I guess with the numbers you just gave us, you pretty much alluded to the point that I was trying to make just a little bit ago is that, And just because I guess we haven't had an after hours, midnight emergency where an ambulance or a fire truck couldn't get through the neighborhood because a car hit another car that was parked on the street doesn't mean one won't happen. And so that's my biggest concern is that we don't have another entrance or exit from the neighborhood. I know my house caught on fire a few years ago and I was glad that a fire truck could nine after dark accidents between 12 30 and 3 30 in the morning that does concern me i mean if we could pull up a graphic of the jeremy can you pull up a graphic of the pine valley neighborhood itself i mean there's in the event that there's i mean we're looking at accident data within the pine valley community um as you can see there if there was a i mean if we you know, there's the one way in right there, but the majority, there wasn't any accidents that occurred where the mouse is right there, the main one way in. All of the accidents occurred within the subdivision there. In the event that a road was blocked, it's easy to go around. Yeah, I've just, I've been in that neighborhood actually quite a bit lately, and I guess an accident could occur anywhere in that neighborhood technically. It could. So, um, an accident could occur anywhere. So that's just something I wanted to point out. You know, if we have seen those accidents on other streets in the neighborhood, I guess it could be that one next. And there are a lot of cars parked on the street just off the main entrance to the neighborhood after 5 p.m. So that's something I think we should take into consideration. Yeah. It is interesting to say, I mean, I think that is also the root cause of some of these accidents that we researched, but it also contributes to traffic calming and the winding nature of these roads over there slows down the traffic. There's not people speeding through there because there are parked cars on the side of the road. There are turns in through there. I mean, that's part of the reason the cars can't speed. John? Yeah. hi miss bristle not not unsurprisingly the only communication i had for my constituents were against this development which generally don't phase me if you know my reputation around here i'm generally in favor of development uh but i i our city attorney said i should ask you the question shall i ask you what would it cost to build a road north to uh mount comfort It's millions of dollars. It's millions of dollars to get across the creek. The city has the streamside preservation ordinance in place, and it would just absolutely be cost prohibitive to build a bridge to cross that creek right there with the floodplain the way that it is. I mean, not to mention the existing going all the way north to Mount Comfort would be expensive. That road itself would be very expensive, but a bridge would cost two or three times the cost of that road. And it's absolutely cost prohibitive. I mean, I I'm a developer. I would like I would love to see a secondary entrance into that property I really would it just is absolutely cost prohibitive We've looked at it a number of different ways and we just cannot cross that Creek. That's why there's no I mean, there's just very limited development, you know crossing that Creek if you look east and west down through there There's few stream crossings planned because they're so expensive. I Well, I'm sorry to hear that, of course. I'd rather you say, sure, we'll do that. I'd love to say that. But I understand geography and physics have some limitations. Second question, what you're proposing to build are townhouses? Are these like duplexes with an upstairs and downstairs? What exactly are you building? They are single-family attached homes, essentially a townhome, some of which will have – they're about 1,250 to 1,350 square feet. They'll be finished out really nice. They will rent for $1,250 a month, or we will sell them. I mean, they are – there'll be a high quality product some have garages some do not those don't have garages there are two-story product two bedrooms two full bathrooms upstairs living space kitchen common area downstairs the existing neighborhood does it have townhouses if the existing neighborhood has duplexes duplexes okay any single family dwellings in the existing neighborhood no sir all duplexes thank you This is a question I guess for Jeremy or the applicant. I'm not really sure, but when you first turn into the neighborhood and you turn left, I guess they'd be turning south, if you look directly at the bottom, there is an access easement and if you're walking around that neighborhood at night, you can tell that it's an abandoned road. Is that owned by the same property owner? Because that could easily tie into the road just south of that. I'm not Jeremy can we go to the map that shows the one mile radius view is it the I think it is it the extension of Shiloh Drive? Believe so, but I want to make sure So just south at the very bottom of the neighborhood where Right there. Yep, and the road just south of that south of where you're Yeah, right there That stops right there. It is not owned. I mean, that's owned by, I think, a bank. I'm not sure exactly who that's owned, but that's owned by... It's irrelevant really but the reason that the road stops right there is again. There's a tributary There's a creek that runs through there and it's cost prohibitive to cross that Creek The city has evaluated and looked at different options and attempts to extend Shiloh Drive to extend connectivity to the south to Weddington It's cost prohibitive the city can't do it because of the creek Just didn't know what it was I there are some existing rights of way that are platted but not built here there's also i think a trail easement that was there's a trail constructed back here that will eventually tie in to our overall trail system for west payable but i don't believe there's a not a street connection this is a part of that a part of that creek system uh mr brazil is correct we've we've looked at this actually we have a few bridge assessment bridge assessments from a long time ago we've refunded on occasion and continue to look at the possibility of connecting Shiloh just off the map here but Shiloh extends north to an animal hospital essentially it dead ends there before it could connect across across the creek yeah there's actually a stub out at the end of the street in the neighborhood and you can tell where there was a road there so Thank you. I'd love to find a way in there, Alan, a secondary way in there. I really would. And for whatever it's worth, we are working with the Parks Department and have some tentative plans to extend the trail system across and through, basically following the connecting over to Shiloh Drive, basically at... go to the east there, Jeremy, like the book warehouse and everything through there, extending it back behind, following the creek, just to the north of our RMF 24 property and circling back around and connecting into the Hamstring Creek Trail, which we think would be a big selling point for that community. all right sarah um just a note for staff it would be really helpful if we could show the creeks and um streamside protection area on these because i noticed on our um i believe the last one the there was also a body of water running through that and it wasn't on there. I think it would help with these discussions. But I think that's a good point about this being adjacent to the Hamstring Trail because our trails are accessible by emergency vehicles. So while I would hope it would never come down to that, if there were an emergency and that access point was blocked, an emergency vehicle could reach the development through that trail. so let's hope it never comes to that but I think we do have that as a backup in this area that's really kind of locked in by creeks and topography and I'm happy to provide the tentative or the proposed plat that Matt and I have been working on as far as the trail extension everybody seems to be on board and there's only two or three property owners that we would need to get approval from. So it should, I think it's very doable, very feasible. So I think if we had a very good trail connection that just planned as an emergency access route, I think that that could alleviate some of my concerns about just having one way in and out. Thank you. I could ask a quick question of Tim. The access point here that would stub out of the public street, is that right away stubbed out to the property line so that it could be extended for some reason in the future if money ever became available? So there is the opportunity here with this public street. It is stubbed out, so the street could extend further west potentially, or if money ever became available and priority was placed upon this, it would not permanently impede that opportunity. Okay. Anybody else?
 Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Now we will take some public comment. Who would like to be first? Okay. Good evening. My name is Martha Clark and I'm a 25-year resident of West Fayetteville. For the past nine years I've lived on West River Ridge Drive in Pine Valley. And one of the reasons I chose that neighborhood after living in several neighborhoods off of Weddington and 112 was for its quiet, kind of off-the-beaten-path nature. The other selling point was that that section of Hamstring Trail is just through the woods behind my house. And so I thank the city for the trail system. But I just heard about this development last evening and I'm greatly concerned about the amount of traffic that if they allow that access coming through Pine Valley, what it would do to our neighborhood. I live just very near the intersection of Pine Valley Drive and West River Ridge, which is that southern corner that you see on the map. The gentleman talked about accidents that have happened. I doubt that he knows about all the near accidents that have happened there, just from the few folks that live in the neighborhood as they come around that corner and kind of cut that corner short, and you're coming home and you meet somebody and, oh, hi, neighbor. You kind of move over and let each other by. But my greatest concern also is the fact of having this high density housing adjacent to kind of a slower, you know, duplex kind of neighborhood area. I think that something like the townhomes is much better suited for something out toward Weddington. I think what they've done there near the Boys and Girls Club, that's great. It was big fields. Nobody lived out there anyway. High density housing then coming through and adjacent to a long established neighborhood That can be that can be a problem also, if that's the only access that these people have is through Pine Valley and they can just see that straight shot across that field to Mount Comfort I'm sure they're going to want to speed through our neighborhood to get through out there and get to that light and get on the bypass and go So I also want to thank the Planning Commission for their serious consideration of this and recognizing those facts that they've stated about the curvy nature of our roads and streets there in Pine Valley. Because it is a really calm and comfortable place to live with kids playing in the street in the evenings and people strolling and saying hi to each other. So I really hope that the council considers denying this and that the developer considers possibly a few more duplexes over in that area or something much more compatible with the neighborhood as it exists. Thank you. Thank you. Who would like to address us next? And I'll just start out that I'm Renee here, and I've lived in the neighborhood over 17, 20 years for a long time. And there's a reason why that we have been there, my husband and I, is that it's a quiet neighborhood and it's safe. And it's low traffic because it's only the traffic that is in the neighborhood. You don't have construction trucks and concrete cut trucks going up and down the roads. The roads are still in pretty good condition. As old as the neighborhood is, it's at least 25 years old, I believe. So that is a concern too, in addition to all the cars, because there will be an additional 114, 171 at different times throughout the day that will be hazardous. And I would like to just remind everybody too that This is a family neighborhood too if you drive down there And now you have to go after work because most a lot of people work right and there are college students that live there but there's a lot of families that live there with kids on their bicycles or walking their dogs and playing frisbee and Even some of them playing cricket. I mean it's they can do that there and in talking with them You know that's why they chose the neighborhood because it's quiet and it is safe and So I did send a picture. This, I don't know if all of you had received it. If you haven't, I've got one here. That was just one day after work, about 6 o'clock on my way home, and I thought, oh, my gosh, this just looks, you know, this is what y'all need to see of our neighborhood so you can understand where we're all coming from, the people that are here and then people that were not able to be here as well. So thank you. Well, I just ditto all that. My name is Betty Phillips. And I live at 1936 North Pine Valley Drive. So I'm right around the corner from the intersection. My concern is not so much that we're building these, which I'm sure that we will. It seems like Mount Comfort has a bullseye on its back because we've got a shopping center going in down the street and now we have some more apartments. But if this is allowed to happen, the city needs to take some responsibility for our little community. We need lower speed limits. We need signs that say children playing, because we have a lot of kids who play in the street sometimes. And I think that in an effort, it seems like on every corner in Fayetteville, we have some houses of some type going up for multifamilies. And I guess there's a need for that, because they're not sitting empty. I wish that... they would go into their new development down the street, because there's another road they could go, but they have to cross the creek. So unless the city's willing to help them pay for that, that won't happen. But so many times I think we approve things in meetings, and then our involvement isn't extended to what happens after the fact. So I would encourage you, should you pass this, to be aware that you have some responsibilities. to ensure that we still have a safe neighborhood. That's all I want to say. Thank you. Thank you very much. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the... Oh, okay. The ambassador. That road is John Schilling. I live at 3064 Marigold Drive, which is just past where he's going to have the turnoff for the multifamily residency facility. That road is one lane most of the time. That road's one lane from about 4.30 till 7 o'clock in the morning. And people park on both sides of the road. There's only a single lane for the vast majority of it. And they're right that people do play in the street. Imposing speed limits there, like lower speed limits there, it doesn't really matter nobody that lives there speeds in there anyway because we know that there could be a four-year-old running out in front of us whenever we enter the neighborhood adding 114 new residents would eventually lead to tragedy in that neighborhood as it is currently designed it just you couldn't put 114 more cars Those streets and there's not one place that there's a single entry point There's actually two places that there'll be a single entry point to his current exit So there's two potential areas where you'd have the traffic flow stopped completely by an accident Thank you Everybody gets one turn to Mac hang on well, I'll bring you back up, but I want to hear from everybody anybody else Okay, I'll give you a read. I just wanted to comment on a couple of the public comments there. We are definitely open to any kind of, I mean, as I alluded to, you know, sidewall, I mean, hatching the street for crosswalks, additional signage, posting more speed limit signs. I mean, I'm open to any kind of, I mean, even speed humps. I think those are the big speed bumps. I think those are maybe not significant. something we're doing these days i don't know but i'm open to any additional measures that we can do to make the neighborhood safer we like the neighborhood we like the we like the feel of the neighborhood that's why we've chosen to develop there and we hope to work with betty and the gentleman that just spoke before me and and we want to we'd be open to any kind of safety measures that you guys might have that was or any ideas you might have that was the whole purpose of the meeting that I had with staff and with plant with the engineers and planners and asked them that very question and they said well you can put up some more speed limit signs that we really don't see we voted for approval we really don't see what you can do different here so just wanted to add that as well as when this development was put in 15 20 25 years ago when it was put in it was designed it was approved by the city of Fayetteville It was built to this to you know, the engineering specs the road profile the standards everything was built to standard back then And so it you know, it should be a safe neighborhood. It should I think what we're doing works So thanks. Mr. Mayor. Could I ask the developer of? question You've heard from several residents here. Have you ever attempted to have a meeting with the residents yet? I have not. It seems to me that it might be in your best interest and in their best interest for you to have a meeting. I also look and see there's only five out of the eight aldermen here, and you still require five votes to prevail on your appeal. So I think if you asked to have this table tonight so that you would have a chance to meet with the residents to see if there's any other things you can work out to make your development more acceptable to them, that might be helpful. I'm not sure, but I think it's worth a try. Everybody seemed reasonable. So anyway, that was just my question to you. Yep, I'm open to that. All right, anybody else? Okay, I'm going to bring you back to the council. All right. All right, Alan. Well, I appreciate that. After talking with quite a few people in the neighborhood, I was on the phone until after 10 o'clock last night with people. I just don't see signs fixing the problem or anything besides crossing a creek making me – making me feel more comfortable with it due to the exit point and public safety due to not having two exits to adding by adding additional cars and homes to this neighborhood without that additional entrance so I'll be supporting the Planning Commission's decision if we vote tonight I would like the opportunity to drive the neighborhood and assess the condition before I make a decision. So I would really like just to hold it on this reading this evening. It is a resolution so you have to give motion to table. Then I would move that we table this for two weeks and wait until we have more council members here as well. All right. John? I second that motion. We have a motion to second the table for two weeks. All right. Any discussion on that? If the mover is second, please put the motion in. There we go. Thank you all. All right. All right. So I would just please call the roll on the table. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Otero? Yes. Long? No. Since that's an interior motion, it does not require five votes to pass, so the motion table passed. Okay. All right. Thank you all. Number seven. In order to amend 157.03 annexation and zoning map amendments to include planned zoning districts and to replace 157.04 with a new notification requirement if an... Indefinitely table rezoning ordinance is removed from the table. Kit? Whereas the notification requirements of a planned zoning district had separate and slightly increased notification requirements in Section 157.04 because of its former development approval rights, and whereas planning zone planned zoning districts are now only zoning amendments and should be handled as all other rezoning applications in section 157.03 now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby repeals in its entirety section 157.04 planned zoning district and amend Section 157.03, Annexation and Zoning Map Amendments, by changing its introductory language to read as follows. Notification of public hearings for annexation petitions and zoning map amendments parentheses including planned zoning districts closed parentheses shall occur as follows. Section 2, that City Council and City of Fayetteville Archive are hereby enact a replacement of Section 157.04 as follows. Section 157.04, indefinitely tabled rezoning ordinance. If the City Council removes from the table any indefinitely tabled rezoning ordinance, the City Council may not pass this ordinance at that meeting. the applicant shall be required to repost the planning department's notice signs within six days of the removal of the item from the table and at least seven days before the city council meeting when the rezoning ordinance will again be considered okay thank you mr mayor um so i brought this ordinance forward due to a rezoning that we had in the last few months where we brought it back from the table indefinitely and when that happened we the city was not required to provide new notification to the people that lived in the surrounding area so i think as a council and as a city it's very important that we do give that notification to residents before we pass our zoning or before we consider rezoning so that they can come to the council meeting and give us their opinions on that so that is the reason that i brought this change forward i hope that we can pass this tonight so that going forward all rezonings are given the opportunity for as much public input as possible. And if you have any questions, I'm happy to answer. Mr. Mayor, I should note that Section 1 was really my idea, so I was looking for a place to put the suggestion by Alderman Long. I noticed the 15704, the planned zoning district, which – We really needed to change. I talked with Jeremy and Andrew about this. They agreed that that should be the same zoning notifications as regular. So Section 1 is different. I take no position at all on Section 2, but I think regardless what you decide to do with Section 2, Section 1 needs to remain. Okay. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. I have one question. I have this might affect things procedurally. Usually whenever we – bring something back to the agenda is because something has changed and very often that means that we amend the rezoning request to a different designation I'm wondering if in those circumstances we would still be able to do that and then the sign would reflect the amended version I think it would be. This is fairly restrictive. It's only when you have tabled indefinitely a rezoning decision, which is rare in this case. It was done before and will be done probably again sometime, but it's pretty rare. Normally you just table them to the next meeting if you want to do that, but if it's indefinitely tabled, then that's when this would kick in. Okay, thank you. Any other questions on that? Okay. Okay. What public input do we have on this? Okay. Now we'll bring it back to the council. Allen. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Thank you. I'll second the motion. Okay. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes. In order to amend Section 15703, annexation and zoning map amendments to include planned zoning districts and to replace Section 15704 with a new notification requirement if an indefinitely tabled rezoning ordinance is removed from the table. Adele Rating Matthew second we have a motion in a second go to third and final rate sandwich, please go yes yes yes yes yes and your nurse amends section 157 oh three annexation and zoning map amendments to include planned zoning districts and replace section 157 oh four with a new notification requirement if an indefinitely tabled rezoning ordinance is removed from the table any comments from the council okay Sandra would you please call the roll Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. All right, number eight. In Orders to Mend Chapters 161 and 162 to Rename and Replace Cottage Housing Development, with cluster housing development to rename chapter 164 to supplementary zoning regulations and specialized development requirements to replace 164.22 cottage housing development with 164.22 cluster housing development and make further amendments to 164.22 kit Whereas many regulations within 164 supplemental zoning regulations are in reality development type regulations and should be administered as development regulations rather than as zoning regulations, and whereas several existing regulations within 164.22 Cottage Housing Development need to be amended to remote rather than retard use of the cluster housing concept for attractive but affordable clustered houses. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends chapter 161 zoning regulations of the Unified Development Code to change the name of use unit 44, cottage housing development, to cluster housing development throughout this chapter, section two. That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Archive hereby amend Section 162.01 by removing and deleting the last sentence referring to an asterisk from the introductory language and by renaming Use Unit 44 as Cluster Housing Development in the initial table listing all use units. Section 3. Section 4. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxford hereby replaces the term cottage housing development with cluster housing development throughout Section 162.01.RR. Section 4. That the City Council and City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby amends Chapter 164 of the Unified Development Code by changing its name to Supplemental Zoning Regulation and Specialized Development Regulations and enacting a purpose section as shown below. Section 164. O. The purpose of this chapter is to protect and further the health, safety, and general welfare of citizens of Fayetteville by providing appropriate zoning and development regulations to provide opportunities for innovative development while protecting neighboring properties and neighborhoods from incompatible development. Subsection B, regulations within this chapter that regulate traditional zoning requirements such as density, setbacks, bulk in area, maximum built in area, height of structures, lot width, etc., shall be administered as all other zoning regulations. Regulations within this chapter that regulate traditional development regulations such as type of foundation, minimum building width, building design requirement, open space requirements, parking requirements, internal separation requirements, orientation requirements shall be administered as all other development regulations. And Section 5, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 16422, Cottage Housing Development in its entirety. and enacts a replacement section 16422 cluster housing development as shown on exhibit A. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I first started working on this and presented this to the Planning Commission back in May. They reviewed it twice and ultimately approved it and then I went through a process with staff where staff offered their own revisions. uh the first few sections of this uh the legislation are really just attendant to the exhibit but section four is an important one that kit caught because of the title of the chapter there's some confusion about whether which where variances would go depending on which piece of the code is being varied and so that clears that up and allows the development regulations to go the planning commission as they are in other sections of the code and the zoning regulations to go to the board of adjustments exhibit a is really the meat of the ordinance and it's really an overhaul of the cottage housing development chapter we adopted that a little bit more than three years ago and since that time we haven't seen any cottage housing developments actually constructed and i don't even think we've seen any permitted And so I got to looking at this and thinking maybe there's a way to use that as a base so that we can increase flexibility on smaller parcels and on infill parcels, especially parcels that might have environmental assets that limit the buildability or administrative easements or things of that nature that might limit the buildability. and so what we have today is really an overhaul that touches most most sections of the original cottage housing development code we've also expanded i guess i'll just go over the big things we've allowed in multi-family zones for attached courts, townhouse courts and apartment courts and the like, which is something that wasn't there before. And because of that, we've changed the name. Every reference to cottage housing, that is now a reference to cluster housing to reflect that new flexibility. In single family zones, the old standard is still in place. Detached housing is still required in single family zones. And single family zones, you can only do this with a conditional use permit. So there's that extra layer of security. that's one of the big changes another big change is that we now allow you to build units up front onto the trail if you have also built the street frontage out so in the old ordinance your units had the front onto either the street or the common open space and now we've added the trail to that which I think is going to be a real boon for people who want to live close to the trail or even right next to the trail because it's just not possible right now to subdivide lane in that way without an ordinance like this. One of the other things we did was we lifted the limitation on the size of units. The old limitation used to be 1,100 heated square feet. Now that limit is $2,500 and to address concerns that we may have with larger units, we have implemented a sliding scale for the open space requirement. So as the unit size goes up, more common open space is required. On top of that, we've also put in quality control standards, a set of criteria of which a few have to be met by the developer for the open space to really count. uh i think one of the other big important things and there are really a lot of changes that jeremy has detailed in his memo but the one other i want to mention is that the old ordinance requires a variation from building to building and unit to unit so that they don't so that these cottage courts don't look like a monoculture And I think that the old way that it was written was a little cumbersome, so instead what we've done is we've required them to meet urban residential design standards. So that should be consistent with the way we process other developments and should be easier to process on our side and easier to understand for developers. I think that this may not be particularly, code changes like this might not be particularly exciting, But I think this change and the ability to subdivide land in this way and to do multifamily development in this way is really going to increase the flexibility for developers who want to build next to neighborhoods or they want to build contextually inside a neighborhood in a way that the developments should be, in a way that developments should fit within neighborhoods. i'm hopeful that um that we'll see new applications coming forward with this because of that new flexibility and i'm struggling because i it's it's hard for me to to overstate how important i think changes like this are you know we started with a good ordinance that frankly other cities should copy where we allow uh uh proposals like this cottage housing developments to be subdivided for fee simple transactions on the back end of the end consumer most other cities don't do that they require developers who do courts like this to use condominium regimes If you study this at all, it's much harder to get financing for a condominium, it's much harder to get permitting, and the risk of litigation is increased by about a factor of 10. And so most developers don't want to fuss with it, and most owners would prefer more stable financing options, so they don't want to fuss with it either. This lets us do a range of building types in a range of settings under fee-simple transactions. So I'm hopeful that we'll see quite a few of these going forward because they should fit in with the developments we already have so well. So I'm happy to answer any questions and see where we're at and see what your support is. Okay. What questions do we have for Matt and this? John. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I don't really have a question, Matthew. I'm inclined to support this. I think it gives greater flexibility. It's innovative. We're not saying that everyone wants to live in a regular three-bedroom, two-bath house with a three-car garage. And the more variety we have in the market, the more we serve our people. I realize when you vote for this ordinance change, you're voting for a package. And not everything in the package will be to my liking. uh the design standards that we're requiring here i would rather see left to individual tastes and individual taste of owners and architects and i don't want to shackle the architecture profession in our city with you have to do it our way or you can't do it at all i think there'd be sufficient variety the objective is laudable we don't want a cookie cutter everything looks the same but i think if we let people free for to choose their own preferences we might achieve the same goal without the imposition of a standard but i do plan to vote for it anybody else all right what public comment do we have on this okay i'll bring it back to the council all righty Alan. Matthew, I think that you've done a lot of good work on this, and I appreciate it. I plan to support this too. My question is, do you think that we should vote on this tonight with Ward 3 not being represented here? Matthew. Thank you. As I recall, the agenda session, nobody really had any issues to raise with it. It's certainly not anything that's urgent, but I also believe that the ordinance has been vetted very well by planning commission and staff. So, you know, I'm fine either way with what the council would like to do tonight. I do believe, you know, in general, that the quicker we can get this kind of things on the books, the quicker people can take action with it. okay Sarah I think this is a great step in helping our planning ordinances better align with our 2030 city plan goals and I also have received no public comment that's negative about this I'm comfortable passing this tonight we'll go ahead and like to suspend the rules and second that motion we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading that motion fails okay all right well I guess we will leave it right here then all right move along to number nine a resolution to grant the appeal of Smith communications CUP 16-5558, future cell tower to amend the CUP to allow the cell tower to be constructed up to 150 feet tall. I think we have the applicant here. Yes. Hello there. My name is Dave Reynolds. I'm with Smith Communications here in Fayetteville. I'll be representing them in Verizon Wireless this evening. And I don't want to bore you or drag you through this entire presentation that we've done several times and so I'm just going to kind of take my cues from you guys in that well I actually have question Jeremy did you want to give a report from the Planning Department's perspective and Planning Commission I can sure okay just to give you an idea what this is this is a Mobile communication tower wireless communication tower proposal does all require conditional use permits within the city of Fayetteville. So The applicant has processed that accordingly all those requirements the generally a lot of the test of a wireless communication facility is whether they whether that facility is adequately providing coverage if there's coverage already in the area there's already coverage in the area we've talked about that the Planning Commission so that's not necessarily an issue this is more about capacity concerns so if you drop a call they have too much volume of traffic in an area, then you need other towers to be able to talk to one another and pick up that traffic in the basic layman's terms. This request for a new tower is located near Washington Regional Medical Center. This is an overall aerial site, so this is Appleby Road down to the south, Washington Regional Medical Facility. The tower location is here along Skull Creek Trail just east of Gregg Avenue, sort of in the lay-down and construction area that they have currently for the overall hospital construction site. This would be going north along Skull Creek Trail approaching Fulbright Tunnel, essentially. the planning commission tabled this item i believe at least once twice in their discussions ultimately a lot of the conversations around cell towers get to whether it's compatible with the area a lot of times residential uses are not seen as an area where cell towers should be located don't have that issue here this is well outside the the radius of a residential use there's a hundred There's a fall zone requirement. They've all met all the technical requirements for that. They've notified within 500 feet, which is required also these applications, and received no negative responses from that notification process. The other issue that oftentimes comes into play is the visibility of the tower. We have a stealth requirement for all cell towers. this particular tower is requested as a flagpole design is what we call it. So the antennae are essentially located on the interior of a pole, and those poles simply look like a... flagpole essentially without the flag we have a number of those in town that the applicant actually has constructed on multiple occasions throughout throughout the city and it's been the preferred design for a number of years after we tested out camouflage and trees and all sorts of things Dave did build a really nice tree there on 265. Yeah, he was. That's special. So this has been the, after a few tests of those, this has been the preferred design to simply try to blend in, I guess, as well as you can to the landscape. At issue here the Planning Commission ultimately approved the application But they approved it at a height limit of 120 feet The maximum height that is allowed within the city of Abel for one of these towers is 150 feet Which is what the applicant has requested Oftentimes that allows for multiple carriers to be located on the same pole. And so we are oftentimes suggesting and encouraging the applicant to construct a tower that can house multiple carriers because essentially that reduces the amount of poles that we have because if you know another carrier doesn't have place to mount they have to locate in you know in a close by area this primary applicant i believe is verizon wireless i think that is that is pushing for this particular site but other carriers could then co-locate on the pole Staff recommended against the proposal. There were a couple of issues there and reasons for that. One, we felt that there were numerous multi-story structures within the area that could house a co-location. Our ordinance tells us to encourage the applicant to do that first, look for co-location opportunities. The hospital being one, we heard significant testimony from staff. Mr. Reynolds, the applicant, and I believe some communication from the Washington Regional Medical Center too, is concerns of locating a new cell tower on that building might interfere with the internal communications that they have at the hospital, and so I think that concern was certainly taken into account. consideration by the Planning Commission when they ultimately ruled in the applicant's favor on the tower. There are some other multi-story structures within the area as well and other city properties which our ordinance also tells us to encourage to utilize. Ultimately the Commission though decided this was a proper place for the tower at 120 feet And so really at issue for you is whether that to uphold the Planning Commission's decision for a 120 foot tower or to consider allowing for the 150 foot tower that is proposed by Mr. Reynolds in this particular application. So I'll let him explain the reasons for which that. The additional 30 feet is important because he can do so much better than I, but that's the basic background. I don't know if I missed anything there, Mr. Williams. No, I think you gave a good presentation. This is a very unusual situation. It's never happened before in the city where we've had an approved cell tower, and yet because it's not quite as high as what the applicant would like, that they actually appealed the approval to try to change... the height to possibly serve as a better co-location but they are approved for 125 foot cell tower here so that basic issue has been resolved the only issue that really is up here for the city council is whether or not you will agree with the applicant that the cell tower should be higher than 120 or no limit them to 120 as the planning commission did yes Thank you all much, and this is highly unusual. I would really love to just put my W in the win column and go sit down. I really would. But it doesn't work that way, and I just want to express that to you that we really do need that extra 30 feet. It doesn't work, and we've submitted the paperwork from Verizon's engineering that At a level of 120 feet it doesn't cover the areas they want to cover and we have some maps and things that we Can show you the differences in the areas that would not receive coverage at the lower areas, but one of the other important things that Staff and mr. Williams brought up is that it doesn't provide any it it doesn't work at 120 for one carrier And it's absolutely undoable for any kind of co-location so I We can look at the maps and this site is in a geographical area that's in the center of other towers in a very high populated dense usage area. So what that does is that allows the site to kind of take that traffic from that's in this area in that medical complex area and serve that and the Fayetteville Medical Park area. It serves a little bit up towards Fiesta Square. that area and some of the neighborhoods there takes that traffic off the existing towers that are about a mile to mile and a Half from there and allows overall better service There's been quite a bit of testimony and some of the planning commissioners, you know chimed in with it and There's letters from the hospital and those folks there that the coverage in that area. The service is is pretty bad I mean they've they've contacted Verizon and AT&T themselves and that's kind of how this is Start it in if you will to cover that area, but back to my point I'm sorry the 30 feet makes it really important to be able to get that little bit more elevation To to cover the areas we need to and to provide at least a chance at colocation Which is also one of the conditions in our approval. Oh Like I said, I just I wanted to bring this to you and another point I wanted to illustrate with it and we'll go through some of the pictures and is that the entire area that we're talking about is 120 square feet of visible tower from any direction. It's basically 36 inches wide and 30 feet tall. So, you know, it's not a great area. We're kind of looking through some of these here. This is how it would look at the 150-foot level. This is from the Fulbright Expressway there, and if you go to the next one, that's how it looks at the 120-foot level. That's the difference we're talking about. This is the white tower there. Same thing here. I think this one is at the, yeah, you kind of see where we're at with this, but that makes a real difference in the functioning of this tower site and without that 30 feet it's not a doable project. These are other sites, you know, we had some of the other discussion. This is the presentation we had at planning. This is some of the other sites that are along the creek that went to compatibility and things But here's some more examples. This is from up there on McGuire Street. Looking out over this, that's 150, 130. That's an existing 150 foot tower on Gregg Street that would be an identical twin to this tower. That's how that same tower looks from the trail system, that kind of thing. We could probably skip through some of this. That's an existing one. That's one of the 100 foot towers there on Leverett Street, also next to the trail system. This one is a 170-foot tower in Carol Ann Cross Park in Fort Smith inside a city park there. The reason I put this in here is that without some kind of reference, I can't tell, and that's my job. You can't go look and tell that that's 170 feet versus 150 feet. You're not getting 170 feet, Dave. I don't want 170 feet. I just want 150. Okay. That's kind of where we are. These were some of our reasons and things, but if, let's go ahead and skip to the, skip a bit there. We can skip all that. We went through that on coverage. This is, let's look at it. This is with the coverage area at 150 feet, if you could, and that's without the tower. So that's the difference that this makes, if you will, in the coverage and the good, strong in-building coverage for that area, plus the coverage in the surrounding areas. This is some of the red circles. Please don't mistake these for being coverage circles. This is just a distance from the other towers. I just wanted to illustrate that this is kind of in the center and that's why this geographic spot is so important. Just some of the exhibits we have to produce here and the site plan has all been approved and everything through engineering, the site improvement plans, everything there. The only question we have left is, Can it be 150 feet tall? Because that's the question we need. Have you had input from your neighbors? We have had input from the neighbors, which has actually been positive from the developers that own the large pieces of property, the UT sections that have just been rezoned. They are both in support of this and have gone on the record and supplied documents to say that, that they want the coverage for their developments, that, you know, Mr. Pennegraph, the way he put it, was I think the benefits of great cell and broadband outweigh the look of the tower. As I stated in my first email, I do not believe the tower, I'm sorry, I believe the service it provides are an asset to our part of the city. So that's from the neighbors, which anybody that's been through one of these with a cell tower, that's unheard of. Yeah. But anyway, that's our question to you. It really is very important both to us and to the hospital and to the surrounding folks there. We feel that it's a, the addition of the 30 feet would be, is, the benefit is greatly more proportional. So that's what I have and I don't want to take up any more of your time with it, so if you don't mind. Okay. Well we have a few questions here. Yeah, I just wanted to, I was one of the aldermen that signed the appeal letter and I just wanted to explain why. I didn't want to revisit any of the planning commission determinations with regards to whether or not the location was appropriate and so on and so forth. I really just signed it to discuss the... whether or not 150 feet should be granted and in my opinion i think it probably should be i really don't see much of a difference at all between 100 120 and 150 feet and if there if there is any public benefit to keeping that 120 feet it's got to be marginal at best okay now Yeah, I 100% agree. I think especially in this location, to see the pole up against a backdrop of the sky, if you're trying to take a great photo of Fayetteville, this is not probably where you're going to take it up against the backdrop of a lot of large buildings. So if we're going to have a large cell tower in town, I think this is a good spot for it. Okay. John? Ditto to everything that was said, just one question. Why don't you put a flag on it? American flag. Okay. I guess the only issue is wind load. It's wind load and lighting. Okay. Adela. Yes, I signed the petition also to bring this back for our discussion simply because I think we need to discuss it. And I agree with Alderman Petty. I think that... It's not going to make that much difference on the skyline. And I think, you know, if we were in Washington Regional and needed our reception, we'd be very happy that we had it. So I'll be supporting it. Okay. Okay. Sure. I plan to support this because of the opportunity it gives us for co-location. If we're going to build the tower, let's get the maximum amount of value out of it as possible. And so I will vote in support. And Alderman Marshall is exactly in the position of the four planning commissioners that wanted to approve it at 150 feet to likely avoid the necessity of another cell tower having to be built quickly. Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? No. Okay, come on here. How are you this evening? Thank you, Mayor Jordan. Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I went on a bike ride today and I rode right past that spot on the trail where it looks like they're ready to start building it already. Unless that may be the equipment I think they were working on a garage at the medical center but in Mr. Williams' memo it which is page 15 as I saw it in the package, he says that the ordinance requires that we consider the visual aspect. That's the first thing that it mentions. As a pilot, I was concerned with the aviation, with the helicopters, the rescue helicopters coming and going from the hospital. But at page 26 of the package, it says that the FAA has already checked off on the height of the tower and that it doesn't need lights, which I find hard to believe, and that there's no electronic interference with any of the navigation equipment. Now, I've got almost 18,000 hours of flight time. I've dealt with the FAA for over 30 years. And a lot of times, their parameters are based on things working, systems working normally. I was also in a helicopter squadron for 3 1⁄2 years. We had three different kinds of helicopters. And helicopter pilots operate on the premise that everything's going to go wrong right now. And when it goes wrong in a helicopter, having a 150-foot pole somewhere may be really bad for the people on that helicopter. So I have some serious questions about whether it's worth the risk. Ambulance pilots. Air ambulance flying is about the most dangerous flying there is for civilians. And we read, unfortunately, all the time about helicopters that don't make it and you lose a doctor and a nurse and the crew and sometimes the patient. So I have some concerns about why you need a tower there at all. But apparently the FAA has signed off on it. What I would read is that at page 41, in terms of the visual aspect, it says the proposed facility will include a 150-foot flagpole-type tower. And then it says this type of tower has proven itself, which is actually one word, as an effective balance between functionality of the wireless carriers and practical use of camouflaging techniques lessen visual impact, specifically to the surrounding property owners. It's not a sentence. But then the next bullet says, painted with a white matte finish is also a factor in the limiting of the visual aspects. When painted in this manner, it produces a, quote, clean and finished look, unquote. Generally, a person would notice the structure and then, because of the type of structure and the painted finish, dismiss it. This makes the tower more innocuous. So I'd like everyone to look at slide 41. Well, this, let me see. That was 41. Look at 43. Can we do that? That's 15. There you go. I don't see anything innocuous about a 150-foot tower. When you're talking about 100-foot towers, you're talking about a tower that, if you think about the slant angle at which we perceive the world, to a large extent is going to be... down at the tree level. But when you get to a 150-foot tower, you're well above the level of most trees. And I just find that this is visually offensive. I don't know why there can't be, as Mr. Williams pointed out in his memo, some other way of delivering signal to the medical center. I think that's being used as a pretext for getting coverage out to other areas. But I don't think it should be done with a 150-foot tower at this location. It also... It kind of boogers up the trail experience. And then the final thing is Verizon is one of the ten most unpopular companies in America for the way it treats its own customers. I know I abandoned them about a year ago and went back to AT&T after 10 or 15 years ago. I think that anyone who has a Verizon account, any alderman who has a Verizon account, should be disqualified from voting on this. They should recuse himself or herself because they would have a direct interest in improving their Verizon service. And so I think that should be done. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, if I could comment on the last thing. Obviously, our rules of order procedure actually do have a provision in there about when you should recuse, and that's when you have a financial interest in the outcome of some vote. You can also recuse if you want to for less direct reasons. For example, if your best friend is before the city council asking for a rezoning, or maybe you'd say, well, I've just known— Joe Blow so long that I could never vote against him, so I'm just, I can't vote. But I think because simply you would be a customer of a business that might be interested in this, that certainly is not very important grounds. So I don't think that that would be a good reason for anybody to recuse in this particular situation. I also want to say that some of the questions that I brought up in my memo, if you look at it, it was dated August, not very recently, were answered at the planning commission level. We talked about why can't we have an antenna mounted on the hospital? You know, if the hospital wants it, why can't we put an antenna up there? And there were two reasons. Number one, the cell tower would be too powerful for their interior space, cell coverage that they have, these small antennas throughout the hospital, and that the cell tower being right there on the hospital would overpower them and interfere with them and make them not very functional. And secondly, it was for aviation. that the helicopter lands on the parking deck of the hospital, the new parking deck, which is where the cell tower would be near. On the other hand, where it's presently proposed to be located, they felt that there would be no danger to the helicopter on that. So some of those answers were, in fact, or some of those questions I had were answered at the Planning Commission level, which is why I think now the only real issue you have is do you want to do like four of the members of the Planning Commission did, which is recommend a 150-foot tower because that will make it much less likely that a second cell tower will have to be built in the near future, or do you want to go ahead and just allow a 120-foot cell tower, which is not as functional but would probably work for at least a single And that's what was approved by the Planning Commission, by the other four that did not want to see 150 foot. Okay. Mr. Mayor? Let me see if somebody else wants to speak, Peter, and then I'll let you come back up. Is there any other public comment? Okay. Come on. I understand about the recusal issue. If this were an ordinance of general applicability, but this is an exception to an ordinance that has already been agreed to, and it's for one company. And supposedly in the materials it said this would be the one and only time in which they ever ask for it, and I doubt that'll be the case. I don't know why there isn't a way to do this without sticking this big white tower... right there. It's a nice neighborhood right now, but it is going to change the visual aspect. And I do not believe it may be the cheapest way to do it. Why not do a 180-foot tower, and then you can reach out to another couple communities on each side? I think I haven't seen good reason for a rule that's already been agreed to, where the planning commission split 4-4 for this waiver to be granted. Okay, thank you All right I'm gonna bring it back to the council Well you all if you don't want any history at all if you want ready to vote I won't say anything but I could talk about why it's white We tried suede blue and stuff like that that didn't seem to work out very well we the Saro towers that are really obnoxious visually are the ones that have the antennas on the outside and they're more efficient you can you can do more stations but it's been determined I guess by the Planning Commission over many years that these flagpoles are probably the least obtrusive ones we can have okay all right now pushing to pass the resolution okay Sarah I'll second that motion we have a motion in seconds passing resolution is any final comments I just wanted to clarify that I was not a customer of Verizon Wireless. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Neither. But anyway. All right. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Senator, would you please call the roll? Wright. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. Patera. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. Is there any announcements? Yes, sir. Yes, Mayor, several announcements tonight, so bear with me. The first is the city of Fayetteville is holding public workshops for our Transportation Mobility Master Plan. They start October the 22nd and run through the 25th. They're throughout town on Saturday the 22nd. That will be between 8 and 11.30 a.m. at the Fayetteville Farmer's Market and between 12.30 p.m. and 4 p.m. at the Walmart Supercenter, which is on Mall Avenue in the north part of Fayetteville. On Sunday, 10.30 until 2 is located on Dixon Street at the corner of Dixon and Highland. It will be set up there between the three churches on that street. which are Central Methodist, First Baptist, and St. Paul's Episcopal Church. On Monday at 11 a.m. to 1.30 at Ozark Natural Foods and at 2.30 to 5.30 at the Harps Food Store on Highway 265 and 45. And then lastly, on Tuesday from 11 to 3, the Walmart Supercenter on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard in West Fayetteville and 4 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. here in City Hall. We really want to encourage citizens to come out, whether you drive, park, bicycle, walk, or use public transit. We're looking for your input and participation in these workshops. Thank you. The second thing is the Project Right Choice, which is a partnership with Harp Stores, Northwest Arkansas Tobacco and Drug Free Coalition, and the Fayetteville, Springdale, Prairie Grove, and West Fork Police Departments, along with Washington County Sheriff's Office, are holding a prescription drug take-back event. It is this weekend on Saturday, October 22nd, at the Harps location at Highway 265 and 45. You can bring your medications between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. And so people are clear. They take... prescription medications, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, pet medicines, medicated ointments, lotions, inhalers, liquid medicines in glass or leak-proof containers up to 12 ounces, and also medicine samples. We want to encourage citizens who have expired medications or items that need to be discarded to use this event rather than Flushing them down the toilet which affects our water treatment facilities, and we don't want emerging contaminants in our water What were the hours on that that was from 10 a.m. Until 2 p.m. Also Saturday after you drop your medications off or actually before you go drop your medications off at 7 a.m The city's celebration of trees for our tree and shrub giveaway will take place this Saturday on the Fayetteville Square and There is a slight change this year in that the tree giveaway will be held on the McElroy Plaza rather than the Town Center Plaza, which is just on the – have they changed it to Arvest? I think it's still named McElroy Plaza, but by Arvest. The Arvest Corner slash McElroy Arvest. How about that? The list of trees and shrubs being given away are on the City's website, on the front page of the news. pawpaw persimmons river birch southern catawba spice bush sycamore winterberry the list goes on so if you have an interest in that it is a free giveaway bring your i guess the water utility bill to show your residency in the city of payville also on um Friday the 21st from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. The Fayetteville Animal Shelter is having an open house and an adoption special. The Animal Shelter is to have an open house for the new... for the new free roaming cat room puppy nursery and park improvements as a result of the liborne donations and bequest so a chance to see your new shelter renovations We also, on this Saturday at 4 p.m., beginning at the intersection of Dixon and Highland Avenue, through the University of Arkansas University Greek Theater, will be a welcome home parade for Fayetteville's own Savvy Shields Miss America. That parade will be held Saturday. We will invite all citizens to come out. There will be performances at the Greek Theater. Thank you. a meet and greet where people can get signatures from miss america miss america's outstanding team miss arkansas miss arkansas outstanding team and also the finalists mississippis south carolina washington new york tennessee oklahoma and alabama will also be present so we hope you'll come out for that event And then lastly, and exciting for our Ward 4 citizens, Ruppel Road will open on Friday. We will have a ribbon-cutting ceremony that will be held at 2 o'clock. It will be located at Rupert Road and Persimmon Street near Owl Creek School. And this is an exciting time. It was one of the most expensive projects in our street bond this year to build, to add capacity going north and south in this part of town. And so we hope our alderman from Ward 4 and our alderman from the rest of the council will be there with the mayor for that celebration. Thank you. Okay. What other announcements do we have? Anybody? Okay. Thank you all. We're adjourned.