I'm going to call the city council meeting for October the 18th 2022 to order Care which police call the roll bench Turk here Hertzberg here Harvey here Jones here Canyon here we'd occur here Scroggins present mayor Jordan here. Would you join me in a pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay. Well, the first order of business, we have a recognition. I believe the chief has a recognition for assistant fire chief William Watts tonight. I do. Thank you, Mayor and Council. Thank you for giving us a little bit of your time tonight.
 Come on. He wants to stay back there. Those of y'all that haven't met Chief Watts, I would encourage you to stop by the station and visit with him. He's really something to visit with. So I will warn you, you might better make an appointment. He's hard to catch. He never stops moving. He's like a, well, I mean he'd make a hummingbird look. I mean he just goes non-stop. So the
 So what he did that, I mean, he does stuff all the time. He works, works, works.
 But this time it was pretty spectacular. So in 2018, the National Fire Protection Agency, they passed a code which is good. Everything they do is intended to make firefighters safer. But what they did was they made it to where all of the air packs had to be the same for every firefighter in the nation, which is great. I mean, if you think about it, it means we could work with anybody and firefighting is a team sport.
 Unfortunately, it meant that a lot of fire departments, including us, had to replace all of our air packs. This is one of the air packs. You may think to yourself, it's just a little piece of equipment that I can hold in one hand, but that piece of equipment is over $6,000. We have just the fatal fire department has 76 of them.
 We work, as I said, it's a team effort. We can't, excuse me, we can't do it on our own. If this building was on fire, for instance, it would take 43 people to put this fire out. We only have 32 people on duty at any given time.
 So we depend. I mean, the rest of that team is all of the departments that surround us. Tonight, I brought with me back here in the back row, we've got representing Washington County, John Luther, the emergency manager. He's representing all of the other fire departments in Washington County. And then Blake Holt, who's the Springdale fire chief. So what...
 Chief Watts did was he went to the county and presented the problem and said, listen, we've got all of these air packs. They all need to be replaced. Fayetteville could have likely come up with the money, but it would have been a big undertaking. A lot of these little departments, they couldn't afford that. And we count on them to be able to, you know, to provide the service that we do.
 He presented to the county and they stepped up. And across the county, they have provided, I mean, they put over $5 million into this project. They purchased 600 air packs, 1,200 bottles.
 And then the biggest thing that I'm really excited about is something that we didn't have previously. So imagine that you're a firefighter and you're standing here where I'm at right now, except it's blacked out. You can't see anything. The way we do it currently is you have to remember where you've been and you have to describe where you're at in the building.
 and you have to tell them, well, I'm on the second floor, or we would call it Division II, and I'm towards the back of the building. And they have to go through that, and then it's a hide-and-seek. It's extremely hot, and every second counts because they've got a limited amount of air. So this particular company, they came up with this system
 And the shift commander that's on the scene, emergency, managing that scene, they can see what every air pack, they know how much air is in it. They know if anything's going wrong. They know all of this stuff. So all of this technology is now at our fingertips, something we never had previously. And then the biggest deal is, is this thing right here. They can hunt that person down. It tells them if it's up, down, the direction they need to go to get to our firefighters and get them out.
 So it's pretty spectacular. I mean, his actions will likely save one of our firefighters in the coming years. So I wanted to recognize him for that in front of all of y'all. And so that's why we're here. Thank you, Willie. Willie Ramos, Jr.: Congratulations. Willie Ramos, Jr.: Thank you.
 So real quick, Mayor, Council, Chief, it's real humbling to receive recognition for a project like this, right? I just want each one of you to know that the success of this project wasn't because of one person. It was because of many people. They were fire service supporters and leaders across Washington County. And so on behalf of all of them, I'm proud to accept this recognition and just want to thank you. Congratulations, Will. Will's well deserved.
 Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the Consent Agenda. Number one, approval of the September 20, 2022 City Council meeting amendments. Number two, a resolution to approve the per capita jail fee agreement with Washington County for Jail Services in 2023, any amount of $76,421.
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $197,483 recognizing revenue associated with federal and state law enforcement forfeitures. Number four, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a matching grant award from the 2022 Bulletproof FIS Partnership Program in the amount of $19,184. Number five.
 for the replacement of body armor vests and outfitting new officers and to approve budget adjustment. Number five, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2023 Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant in the amount of $143,000 and to approve budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $79,149
 Recognizing revenue associated with the sale of city-owned property located at 1010 South Hollywood Avenue.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of a new rescue fire apparatus from G&W Diesel EVS in the amount of $1,300,000 plus any applicable sales tax and delivery charges pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council cooperative purchasing contract for use by the Federal Fire Department and to approve budget adjustments.
 This is firefighting facilities improvements bond project. Number eight, a resolution to approve an updated Northwest Arkansas Razorback Greenway operations and management plan for the sections of the Razorback Regional Greenway within the city of Federal. Number nine, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of
 inspection and repair services from scribbling equipment to inspect and repair various equipment is needed through the end of 2022 and within the approved budget.
 Number 10, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of original equipment manufacturer parts from J&R Equipment in the amount of $41,945.59 for the repair of accident damage to a refuge truck.
 number 11 a resolution to approve amendment number one to the professional architectural services agreement with middle boston slack architects pa in the amount of four hundred and thirty nine thousand two hundred ninety dollars for architectural services associated
 with the replacement of fire station number two, and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a firefighting facilities improvement bond project. And number 12, a resolution to approve the 2023 proportional share agreement with Washington County and cities in Washington County to pay federal statutorily required...
 share of our state district judges based salaries and to authorize the mayor to sign future agreements As long as the amount allocated to federal remains the same I will entertain a motion except consent agenda Second we have motion to second to accept consent agenda Here would you please call the roll? Yes Her yes Yes, RV. Yes I
 Jones? Yes. Pinion? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 An unfinished business, number one, an ordinance to amend 118.01, the ability of the federal city code, and 151.01 definitions, and 163.18, short-term rentals of the unified development code to remove the conditional use permit requirement for type 2 short-term rentals and to repeal the sunset provision. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. I move we go to the second reading. Second. Second.
 have a motion to go to the second reading care would you please call the roll bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes wedeker yes
 Yes. In order to amend Section 11801, applicability of the Fayetteville City Code and Section 15101 definitions and Section 16318, short-term rentals of the Unified Development Code to remove the conditional use permit requirement for Type 2 short-term rentals and to repeal the sunset provision.
 Thank you, Mayor Jordan. Jonathan Kurth with Development Services. Brett Bostic with City's Special Projects and Long Range Planner will be taking the lead on this one.
 Okay. Rick? Yes. Thank you so much, Mayor. Good evening, Council. So as we continue to consider short-term rentals and where we are, I did want to highlight for the Council one of the reasons that we are considering this item at this point in time is there is a sunset in the current provision or in the ordinance, and so this would automatically repeal on December 20th of this year, and if the Council did want to take action to
 continue the ordinance for example or make any other amendments, we'd be probably looking to do that by the November 15th council meeting without an emergency clause for any decision the council wanted to make. And so staff provided a memo for the council members but I wanted to recap that since it was about five pages so just to hit the highlights, staff did highlight some existing methods and then also some alternatives for compliance
 enforcement and then the frequency or concentration of short-term rentals in neighborhoods.
 So for compliance, we highlighted that the current approach is complaint-based, so we're looking to receive a comment or a complaint from our community before taking action. An alternative approach for this, especially when a short-term rental might be operating without a business license, would be proactive. We would, as staff, be looking for short-term rentals operating without a business license so that we could work with the operator or the property owner to get the appropriate approvals from the city.
 There is an option for third-party compliance support and you'll see in that memo that this could cost anywhere from thirty to seventy thousand dollars a year And that has a lot to do with how many short-term rentals would need to be brought into compliance or go through the regulation process The size of the city of Fayetteville, etc. And that's why you see such a broad range There are a lot of options that have cost implications. I
 We could also look at increasing the cost for non-compliance, so that might be increasing fees or penalties when someone's operating without the appropriate approvals.
 When we look at enforcement, the steps in that process are we receive the complaint. We also have to investigate that to see if that complaint can be verified and if there is a violation that does occur. If we can find that there's a violation or a likely violation, we can work with the city prosecutor and forward that to them. There was a question from the council in agenda session on whether or not an affidavit might be a piece of this.
 There are a lot of cities across the country that use an affidavit when an application is submitted for a business license or an approval for a short-term rental. Those affidavits tend to be focused on acknowledging policies, acknowledging rules.
 But we did find that Jersey City, New Jersey, interestingly enough, included a section to confirm code compliance and then whether or not there had been any dangerous conditions or violations issued. So in reviewing several dozen cities and what they do, that was the one that really stood out as far as kind of a different approach to an affidavit requirement.
 On the frequency or concentration and this is really looking at how many short-term rentals are operating within a single neighborhood not just citywide. We wanted to kind of recap our current requirements or our current limitations are that there is a 2% citywide cap
 on and that's based on the number of dwelling units in Fayetteville. You are allowed only one unit or 10 percent of the units in a multi-family development whichever is less. We don't currently have any caps or limits by zoning district or subdivision or neighborhood but those are things that we could look at implementing if the council is interested in pursuing those options. And so other alternatives that we highlighted for the council to consider is that the
 Again, the frequency or concentration of short-term rentals could be managed by zoning district or limited by zoning district. We did see that there are limitations in other cities on short-term rentals in residential zoning districts. And that's something that I believe you all have heard some public comment
 specifically on. We could also look at limiting short-term rentals in designated neighborhoods. That could be a little bit more difficult to define. Not all neighborhoods have a specific subdivision that was platted or have a specific neighborhood boundary. Some neighborhoods self-identify really well but some are a little less difficult to define.
 to put a boundary on. But in any case we could certainly look at that. And then we could also look at stricter ownership standards as a means of limiting non-resident or investment STR operators. Some cities have adopted owner-operator requirements as well.
 And so we did receive some additional information on HMR tax revenues. So a lot of information on this table, but what I do want to highlight is as of September of this year, our short-term rental part of the HMR tax revenues is a little less than 3%, and our total revenues are almost at $6.7 million.
 And so that's short-term rentals plus hotel, motel, plus restaurant. Hotel, motels are almost four times or about four times what we get in tax revenues compared to short-term rentals. And happy to answer some questions on that. I wanted to show visually short-term rental administration by conditional use permit, business license and enforcement and something that's a little bit difficult to see
 in the illustration but that certainly happens is the amount of communication and coordination that's required through each of these different sections. A lot of coordination especially on enforcement with staff, but coordination in the conditional use permit is external or a lot of coordination needed with the applicants to make sure they understand the process.
 Staff is looking for some feedback from the Council as we move forward on this item and understand what the Council would like to pursue. So is the Council interested in proactive compliance, increasing enforcement tools, modifying the density cap? What would the Council like to do with this recommendation from the Planning Commission and staff on the conditional use permit requirement? And also would the Council like to consider extending the sunset provision?
 We're only about three months into the new normal for how these are regulated. And so with the council, like additional time to consider impacts and data, et cetera. I'm happy to answer questions. And so is Mr. Kerr. Thank you so much. Okay. What questions do we have from the council? Nothing. Okay. Let's go ahead and take some public comment then. Okay.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that susan who do you have on zoom no one on zoom has their hand raised mayor okay does anyone like to address this in the council chamber
 My name is Jeff Connor. I live at 937 West Boone Street in southeast Fayetteville in the Parksdale, I think, addition. I was here with, I think, seven of my neighbors at the Planning Commission last week. There was a conditional use permit application for an Airbnb, I guess you would call it, a short-term rental.
 And that process worked for us last week. There were council people here that had, or excuse me, planning members that had driven up and down our block. They were familiar with the street. It's too narrow for on-street parking. It's almost too narrow for two cars to pass besides themselves. And the laws that existed, understanding that it's set to expire in December, worked in our case.
 I moved here from a master plan community out west in 1995. I relocated my kids here. Could have lived on the square, could have lived anywhere. The street that we live on right now, my wife and I chose for it's an older neighborhood. Everybody that lives there is our same age. We're semi-retired. Everybody walks down the streets. I'm okay with the sunset provision existing as is and this law expiring.
 We merely want to have say in our neighborhoods. We took, I have another neighbor of mine here, and she'll speak. She undertook tremendous efforts in 18 to have the zoning changed in our neighborhood. We're simply trying to preserve an old Fayetteville neighborhood. And my fear is that it's, we're trying to turn all of these neighborhoods into almost a business or tax revenue issue. We've got an out-of-state person that bought a brand new home recently.
 for investment purposes and has made a determination that he can get more rent renting it out on a daily basis. We're close to the university. I anticipate anybody renting it is probably going to be here on game days and partying.
 And I'm opposed to the short-term rental or at least to any procedure that's going to make it easier for somebody to just go get a business permit and open a business in my neighborhood three doors down from me. So I would just encourage you to think that the system as it is worked. There were a lot of people that had conditional use permits, and I understand that's more work for the Planning Commission.
 And they granted, my neighbor will speak, I think maybe half the applications and they denied some of them. We were one of the ones they denied, but they put, had first-hand experience. It wasn't like a business licensing procedure. And we prevented an Airbnb from opening in our neighborhood. My fear is that whatever we did a week ago may be undone here. We've got an out-of-state investor.
 I still don't know where the guy lives. Sent me a letter, didn't even have his return envelope, lives in Utah and appears in a video conference. We're a neighborhood of local people. And I'm just, I'm opposed to making it easier to have somebody move into a neighborhood among families and just open what is effectively kind of a,
 hotel in your block where you're not going to have any consistency with neighbors. Maybe we get to meet 50 new people a year. I don't know, but I'm just opposed to it. This affects me and my neighborhood.
 I'd rather be home. I've worked like all of y'all all day long. I'd rather be somewhere else, but this affects people. And as is it worked and I'm opposed to this, to making it any easier for people to come in here from the West Coast. I'm from the West Coast, invest in real estate because they sold a piece of property on the beach for $2 million, buy all our houses and set them up into Airbnbs. And it seems like that's a trend and,
 I'm starting to feel really old standing up here opposed to it. But we have neighborhoods. We have neighborhoods. We like to know our neighbors. We know all of our neighbors. We know all their animals. Everybody by first name. We have no sidewalks in our neighborhood. Everybody walks down the middle of the street. When somebody drives fast, we slow them down. And in a way, it just feels like we're losing control. To investors. To investors. Somebody asked $400,000 to buy a house.
 They should come here and live in it. I have no opposition to somebody bringing people into their home and having overnight guests. We have people on our block that do that, but I am opposed to treating it as a business opening up in neighborhoods. I'm just opposed to it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello. My name is Robin Devine, 1000 West Boone Street, South Fayetteville, Parkdale Addition, Fayetteville.
 I would like to just state a couple of facts which you all know. According to the GIS map, the short-term rentals for Type 1, there's 74 with a business license. The short-term rentals Type 2, there's 320 that have a business license. That makes 394 with a business license currently in Fayetteville.
 When I looked on www.airdna.com, it said there are 696 short-term rentals in Fayetteville with a total of 805 short-term rentals in Fayetteville with the outline that included Greenland and a town called Savory, which I don't even know where that is, but it included about 75 along the outside of Fayetteville.
 To make the numbers really simple, just say they said 700, they said 796, and we have 394. We're going to call that 400, just for different on each side. You take the 400 away from 700, that means there's 300 short-term rentals with no business license and no oversight and not paying into the city coffer. And that's a huge revenue loss for Fayetteville. And one question.
 how many type two short-term rentals are owned by people out of state and how many are here in town participating in our town. And if they're living here, they would have a more, I would believe, they would have a more inherent interest in the goodness of this town. Where if they're out of state, I don't know that they would care much about anything. They might. I mean, they might. I'm not saying they wouldn't. So I would like to say that...
 I would please want you to continue with the conditional use permit for type 2. It is the only way for neighbors to have a voice or opinion on an issue that directly affects them. These neighbors also have an investment in their home, their family, and their neighborhood. You could hire an intern to do a lot of the footwork that is required for posting a conditional use zone, excuse me, conditional use permit.
 I hear that's a lot of work. I'm sure there's a lot of interns at the university that might like a job. Personally, I would put an outright stop on granting all further type two rentals until the discrepancy between the number of short-term rentals and the rentals on the website get more aligned with the number of business license. I feel like we've created this huge quagmire of 300 people without a business license.
 The more we let people get in easier, the bigger that quagmire is going to be, the harder it is to create oversight. I would really like to see a stop. I'm not against short-term rentals.
 make the balance between what's out there and the money that's due to the city, and then have some oversight. And again, we can, I don't know how it would do, but I'm sure somebody with computer skills could get onto one of those Airbnb BDOT DNA type things. And dot by dot by dot, you can look them up. It would be very tedious, but I think it could be done.
 After all, about the licensure, all tradespeople need a license. Driving a car you need a license. Working professionals, nurses, daycare workers, teachers, home health care people, we all need a license. Why should somebody who has the potential to feed a lot of revenue to the city here not be put to the same degree that the rest of us working stiffs are doing just because they can afford a house to sell?
 Okay, one more thing. Considering the bulk of short-term rentals are located near downtown areas, I would like to see a map, this might already exist, create a map of all the neighborhoods, their density, and how many short-term rentals there are in each of the neighborhoods. Create a number or percent cap of short-term rentals allowed based on the density in each neighborhood. Okay.
 limit by zoning district rather than by number of occupants, a density cap on a geographical basis rather than a citywide basis. We have one in our neighborhood right now, percentage of our people in the single family neighborhood conservation. That is, I think, 3.4%. To add another one, it jumps to 7.9%, and that puts us well above the 2% of the city.
 based on our tiny little neighborhood that's single-family resident only. It's not the whole of Parksdale, it's just that piece, which is why I think getting it denied was quite beautiful for us. So I think there's a way of doing it differently. If you look at the map, the zoning map, most of the RBNBs,
 are right in Airbnb, excuse me, Risman Blues is the Airbnb. Rob, time. Okay, Rob, time. Okay, they're all in the downtown area. We can spread them out further. Okay, time. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I'm going to go ahead and get started.
 unbelievable and I get the streamlining the process, but we are a neighborhood. Those are not just houses just, those are our homes. So I've just done a little bit of cursory research and I found that Eureka Springs has cracked down on Airbnb rentals, they just banned them. And one of the things that they talked about in this information that I found is that they have more single family homes
 that are being purchased by out of town folks. And they're being put up for Airbnbs. And that's taking away single family homes for people that want to move there. I also looked up to see what Nashville and Austin have had to do, and they're doing the same thing you all are having to do. And the one in Texas in Austin even went to the Texas Supreme Court
 and they had to redo everything. But the one thing that I found in all of the articles that I read is that the neighborhoods hate them. The neighborhoods hate the short-term rentals. I would urge you to give us some control over what happens in our neighborhoods. And I appreciate that, thank you.
 Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, it's on the second reading. What conversation would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I'd like to leave it on the second reading. I've got a lot of conversation with a lot of the neighborhoods regarding this. Most of the neighborhoods want to keep the conditional use as we've mentioned, was mentioned tonight
 And again, I think we need to take a little more time at looking at the administrative burden and how that would be covered as we move forward, regardless what we do. I think we have a lot of work to do in managing the short-term rentals across the city. I think that we need to look into the...
 The density not citywide but by some other method, some type of quadrant or some type of neighborhood. And again, I think that's going to take some time to figure out. I don't have the answer, but I do know that that is a concern. If all the if the total number in the city were concentrated in one neighborhood, then it would take out a neighborhood easily.
 And what we're seeing, if you look at the map currently, there are concentrations of short-term rentals in neighborhoods based on, I'm sure, the availability of property that was purchased as well as the location. I'm glad that we're talking about this. I think that we knew that it was going to occur as we looked at the sunset clause expiring. But I do hope we can keep this on the second reading until next week.
 until there's more input and more than just input I think that we've got to think about some real modification of the activity as we move forward by some type of ordinance improvement.
 Thank you, Mayor. I completely agree. I hope we hold it on the second reading tonight. And I'm very interested in seeing how we can find out more about these 300 short-term rentals that are operating without a license. And if that requires hiring a third party to come in here and actually do that kind of investigation and relieving some of the burden from the staff, I think that would be money well spent.
 So I'm very much in favor of that. I'm also in favor of increasing the penalties because right now, my understanding is we only have the option of going to the city prosecutor. And I don't believe that that is a,
 realistic way to deal with it I think it's overly burdensome on the prosecutor I think there are other tools that we can investigate that will be much more effective and have less overhead such as maybe you can't if you're in violation you've been notified that you're operating illegally well maybe you won't be able to get a license for six months I mean that would really send a very strong message that we were very serious about that
 So, I'm interested in staff looking into those kinds of mechanisms that are easier to manage and are probably much more effective.
 Definitely the limits in neighborhoods. How challenging would that be in terms of a GIS? You know, can we really identify those neighborhoods effectively and then maybe combine the neighborhood with the zoning type too? So really kind of maybe not every neighborhood needs to have the same kind of cap.
 because their zoning type might be different, or maybe it could be similar. So I think a lot more exploration is really needed, but having 300 out of compliance, I don't have the slide up here right now about how much revenue is being lost, but that's a considerable amount.
 I also asked about maybe how much staff time is being used to manage the short-term rentals because if we're generating this much revenue, but staff time is taking so much more than that to manage, we should know that. That's kind of a money-losing sort of investment in our city.
 So there's, I just, I have a lot more questions and need a lot more information before I can support moving forward in any meaningful way. Okay, Shlomo. Yeah, I'm good with holding this. I think we need to look at it a little more. I think neighborhoods still need to have a say, so I definitely can't remove this. I'm a little apprehensive on,
 neighborhood and street caps. I don't like it when we have government controlled monopolies where we say that, well, you're the first three, so you get it forever. If we have too many, then maybe we need to raise fees or
 or something of that nature to make sure it's balanced, but not something to say, hey, well, they got it first, so they get it forever. That's just always been kind of an issue when we see the government protecting monopolies for certain people that already have it. So I'm a little apprehensive on that, but absolutely neighborhoods still need a way to say if these are working or not.
 I agree with Sloan too. Well first of all I'd like to hold this. But I agree with Sloan on the fact that the density cap for neighborhood, I know that I was one of the ones that discussed that in the beginning,
 After a little bit of thought, I think that that might be a little bit too much control for us. I think that the conditional use permit might actually be the way to do that. I think we should keep it the way it is because then each neighborhood can be looked at as a case-by-case scenario. And then we can make decisions based on, you know, neighborhood input.
 I don't think that we should let the sunset clause expire. I think that we've done a lot of work on this ordinance and it's close. I think we just need to keep tweaking it. Maybe we could push the sunset clause back a little bit while we work on it some more. But as of right now, either update the sunset clause or solidify this ordinance and keep conditional use permit. That's my opinions.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would be interested in extending the sunset clause versus making this a permanent rule that had no sunset. I think it would be too hard to
 Remove it from the books if we decided things were not working for our residents if we made it Permanent and perpetual so I do like the idea of extending. I'm very interested in the discussion about limiting this to 1% of single-family homes versus 2% of single-family homes and As far as fees I mean I
 People have said the city's making money on this. Yes, there's some tax revenue coming in but the fees should be commensurate with the cost of reviewing holding public hearings to approve and
 inspecting if we have to and enforcing. And so there should be a cost borne by the applicants who want to offer their properties, a short-term rental that the rest of the community should not be bearing. And so I would like to see an analysis, someone an appropriate fee would be to apply even. Thank you. Okay.
 Anybody else? I do have one other thing I forgot to mention. I think one of the public comments that was discussed, maybe not necessarily hiring an intern but possibly proposing this noncompliance issue to the university to see if a student maybe would like to look into researching all of the addresses for the noncompliant Airbnbs and kind of cross-referencing those with our business licenses.
 I think that'd be interesting to see if there was any interest in that. Okay, anything else? So we'll leave it on the second read. Okay, under new business, a resolution authorized Mayor Jordan to sign a letter of intent defining development agreement terms with Brindale Properties Incorporated for the public-private partnership for construction of the mixed-use building plan to provide ground floor active uses
 for the ramble civic plaza on the southern end of the site susan you have wait yes wait go ahead thank you mayor so according to vicki bronson with conners and winners this letter of intent is to have a document in place that sets forth the material terms of the agreement between the city and rindale she agrees with kit that this loi is intended to be a binding document
 It provides a written commitment for both parties to move forward. However, like all arrangements, there is the possibility the deal might not work out over the terms. So Vicky's joined us this evening if you guys have any additional questions relating to the specifics of LOI. So I'd like to provide a little background and the process involved in the development of this LOI.
 In August and September of 21, the City's Purchasing Division advertised an RFP for a private-public partnership for the Arts Quarter development at the South Plaza lot with the submission deadline of October 26. In November, a selection committee voted to interview Rindale Properties LLC. In late January of this year, a selection committee voted to enter into negotiations with Rindale.
 In February, staff drafted an outline of terms the City wanted to include based on the RFP and a roadmap of the events to move the item forward. Also in February, City Purchasing Division advertised for legal services to represent the Mayor, staff, City Council with contract negotiations, development agreements, and closing documents associated with the private-public partnership.
 In March, a selection committee voted for Vicki Bronson of Connors & Winters, and this agreement was approved by council in May. So as you can see, the team's been working on this document for over nine months. The final version before you was drafted by Vicki Bronson. It includes input and feedback from city council members, city attorney's office, chief of staff, developers, and city staff.
 Again, it includes many of the requirements of the RFP. I would also like to note that includes all of the original terms drafted back in February. As stated at the agenda session, this letter of intent is only the first step in the process. There will be three additional city council actions required for this public-private partnership development to move forward. Rob Sharp is here representing Rindell Properties. We'll discuss some of the terms and the steps moving forward in his presentation.
 So I want to review how this LOI ties into the overall arts quarter project schedule. As you all are aware, phase one of the arts quarter project has been completed. It was a Faye Jones Woods, West Avenue and the Greenway Trail. So we've already begun construction of phase two with the street work and utilities on West Avenue between center and Meadow. This section is scheduled to complete in March.
 The street work, utilities and greenway trail between Center and Dixon is scheduled to begin next month. As far as the Civic Plaza, the Civic Plaza design is completed. The landscape architects and engineers are finalizing the construction drawings. The schedule to advertise and bid the plaza is in January. Once those bids are accepted and approved by Council,
 NAP holds and their trade partners will start procuring materials to lock in pricing and enable construction to start immediately after the deck is substantially complete. So the plaza completion is scheduled for the spring of 2024. Now Nathan Foley with MBW is also on zoom to answer any questions related to the design.
 So keeping this LOI approval on schedule will assure a completed mixed-use building on the south of the plaza by the spring of 2026. And here again, Rob Sharp can provide more detail on their design and construction schedule. This schedule will also align with a completion requirement of the building on the north plaza lot. So by spring of 2026, it should all be done.
 So I will now pass this to Devin Howland to discuss the economic impacts of the project and then Rob Sharp and we will be available afterwards for questions. Okay. Devin.
 Thank you, Wade. Good evening, Council, Mayor Jordan. My name is Devin Howland, Director of Economic Vitality for the City of Fayetteville. Tonight, I'm going to touch briefly on the economic impacts of the project tethered to this letter of intent. And I'm also going to make a few notes on the site specifically that I wanted you to be aware of. Staff has estimated that the project described with this brings in roughly 940,000 in direct economic benefits to the city and school district and county.
 Currently, the roughly 20 parking spaces that this hotel is planning to sit on generate $32,000 direct to the city per year.
 And again, compared that to 940,000. Hotels are the type of business that fuel the downtown. And in numerous ways beyond just the sales tax generation that I'm talking about. For an example, these don't talk about the indirect and induced benefits to the businesses around it, to those expenditures, to residual expenditures at restaurants, etc. From dollars outside of Fayetteville coming into the city.
 And I can't think of a more ideal place to put a hotel than the site sitting here in question. The place making benefits, the safety, the eyes on the park that this would bring. And also, for a very long time, I've been here five and a half years, and I heard that we want to diversify Dixon Street. We want Dixon Street to be more than bars. And it's starting to take some pretty incredible steps that way, and this is nothing more than further that goal.
 And also during my time here, we've worked on numerous hotels that have attempted to enter downtown, probably half a dozen. And nearly every single one of them has failed. Most of the time they fail due to the residential step-back requirement that really nixes most of our downtown from going vertical. And so in of that, I'm proceeding with this LOI. We're increasing our developable land that can go vertical in downtown under the existing code of ordinances and provisions.
 making extremely unproductive economic land productive. Also, there's been chatter about our downtown's capacity to handle multiple hotels. And I wanted to go ahead and touch on that and state that that's dictated by the market. And it varies wildly when we look at cities our side.
 We look at some of our peer cities that we weigh ourselves against from the economic front. Lawrence has six, Asheville 14, Boulder has three. And so, again, it varies. The market will decide that. Should any questions you have for me tonight arise or even beyond this, as always, I'm here. But I'd like to go ahead and turn this over to Mr. Sharp for his comments and presentation. Thank you, Mayor. Okay. Now, Mr. Sharp, you have ten minutes as the applicant.
 Thank you. It's a complicated project. I have a lot to get through here, but I'll go as quickly as possible. And I will stop at 9.59. And Peter is running the slideshow, so I'm just going to say next slide when I need another slide. So, next slide. So, really, I think there are three questions here. One is what's the big idea? Second is how does it benefit the citizens of Fayetteville? And third, can this team deliver on the vision? Next slide.
 So the big idea is that we're taking a parking lot in the very center of our entertainment district and we're turning it into a green active park. Next slide. I've gotten to see the early construction documents on this and I think very few people realize how really transformative this is going to be. This is, it's like we've all seen the pictures but it's going to be amazing that, you know, how different our town will feel when we have this active vibrant space in the middle of it. Next slide.
 We're used to in Fayetteville that our downtown kind of gets incrementally better. It gets a little better. It gets a little better. Businesses open and close. People come in and out. This is going to be a watershed event. It's going to be a transformative event. And it's really, again, I just think people are going to be blown away with what happens there.
 Next slide. So we see our project, this hotel project at the south end of the park, is a bookend and a capstone to all the work we've done on this ambitious cultural arts corridor. This is the last piece of the puzzle, and as Wade mentioned, spring 2026, we're going to have those two bookend projects at the north and the south of the park completed. Next slide. So the big idea is that we need a new downtown hotel. If you'll go to the next slide.
 We have a downtown hotel with the graduates, built in the 1970s. I think that the people that took that over and renovated it did an absolutely fantastic job of rebranding something that was fairly tired into something that was very fresh. The challenge is, is it's probably not in the place you would build a downtown hotel today. Today, the people want to be where the action is. Next slide.
 I mean, you can tell the reason people want to be there is because of the activity there. We've got the Walton Arts Center, which is like you couldn't put all their calendar on one slide, they just put a few weeks. Next slide. Theater Squared is doing events in addition to their coffee shop. Next slide. Tin Roof is committed to supporting live music and events multiple times throughout the year. Next slide.
 And then Georgia is the absolute powerhouse of live music in the state. So this is a hot spot. This is where people want to be. Next slide. So the big idea is we want to invite people to come to our town, get to the very center of it, and participate in the life that we have to offer here. Next slide. Next slide.
 So those three questions. The next question is how does it benefit the citizens of Fayetteville? What is the return on investment? We've committed to spending the $32 million on the Cultural Arts Corridor. What is our return on that investment? Next slide.
 So, Devin went through the numbers. This shows that in a little more detail. If you have questions about this, please ask him or we'll do our best. But the bottom line is it's $479,000 a year to the city of Fayetteville, which will go directly to our coffers. There's money to the school system. It's a terrific way to funnel dollars from private pockets into public institutions. Next slide.
 There's a tremendous benefit to the park to having this building at the south end of it. The parks live or die based on how used they are. People want to be where people are. And so this building with its cafes, its shops, its restaurant, its rooftop bar, it will be an open invitation to everybody to come to our park and enjoy the park and take away great memories of the park. Next slide.
 We feel there would be a tremendous benefit to the existing merchants that are there, the existing bar owners, the existing restaurant owners. Having 134 hotel rooms within a few block radius is going to bring more business to them. The cash registers will ring more because we'll have more people here.
 From the beginning, we've seen this as a place, as an opportunity for public art. We've met with Fayetteville Arts Council. We've talked about strategies to integrate art into the process. We've talked about using hotel lobby as an art institution. We've also talked about, you know, every hotel has an art budget. We wanna make sure that money is spent on local artists.
 Next slide. A tremendous benefit is this idea of crime prevention through environmental design. It is absolutely critical when you have a public space that you have eyes on it and people in it as often as possible.
 I had a great meeting with Officer Greg Dawson of the Fayetteville Police Department. When I was on planning commission, he would walk us through what's important for crime prevention through environmental design. He looked at the project. He liked the idea that we've got a hotel lobby that's open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. So if someone's in trouble, help us right there.
 He likes the idea that the guest rooms are overlooking the park, so day or night people are being surveilled, not in an obvious ugly way, but in a casual way. He says that those passive eyes are more effective than foot patrols. He said cameras are great as evidence gatherers, but they don't prevent crime. So keep in mind, if you want the safest, best park you can have, please have activity at the south end of it.
 He got very excited about this image. He said, this building looks like an aquarium looking at the park. So there's many, many opportunities to see what's going on in the park. Next slide. One benefit, it may seem small, but I think that everyone in Fayetteville, we realize with the town center bathrooms that,
 Having climate controlled, safe, secure public bathrooms is better than sort of the unconditioned vandal resistant bathrooms that we have in our park system. I mean the park system bathrooms are great, but this is an opportunity to do something better. Also in terms of crime prevention, if you put a bathroom in our park, you've got four, three blank walls for people to hide behind. So the next question of the three questions is can this team deliver on the vision? Next slide.
 So we've got CR Crawford has agreed to be the contractor for the project. We've got John Teeter here as president and Scott Stokenberry, vice president of that organization. If you have questions for them, please ask them. They have deep experience in this type of project. Next slide.
 608 hotel rooms in five hotels in the last three years, $200 million worth of annual construction volume, $800 million in bonding capacity. They're headquartered in Fayetteville, Arkansas, and 90 employees. And importantly to this job, they have great experience in working on very tight infill
 Next slide. Windsor Autry are our hotel experts. Their footprint is mainly in the Southeast, primarily in college towns, primarily in downtown. So they're a great fit for this type of project. In Zoom, under Zoom, we have Kelly Ross, Jay Alexander, Lauren Nicholson. So if you have questions, you wanna talk about the hotel business, they will go into extreme detail if you would like to. Next slide. My company's courtyard building and block,
 Next slide. I've been practicing architecture here since 1998. I live and work in downtown and care very deeply about it. And also point out that as this project goes forward, I will be the local architect, the design architect. We'll get a architecture firm that does hotels for a living to do the nuts and bolts. So I won't be doing that. Next slide.
 The developer, Brian Rindle, is, I think it's a perfect fit for something like this. You know, he has been developing in downtown Fayetteville since 1999. Next slide. He does housing, he does shops, he does food and drink. He has a real expertise in working with local entrepreneurs and everything he does is very high quality. Next slide.
 So Brian does the developing, the construction, the leasing, the property management is extremely detail oriented. His office is right there. He's got a he's got a incentive to make sure that it's great. He also has just a proven expertise. You go to the next slide.
 of nurturing and recruiting and maintaining these small local retailers that we all love that gives Fayetteville its character. And so Brian's the kind of developer you want developing the ground floor of your hotel. Instead of bringing in like the Chili's, he'll bring in somebody local. Next slide. The main thing is, there are 97 jobs in our community based in Brian's buildings that he's
 brought in brought along next slide so we've got our three questions can this team deliver on the vision next slide that question when we present it often comes up is can this team actually provide parking for this building so I'd like to talk about parking for a little bit the next slide time time I would like to if Rob would like a little more time I'd like to give him five more minutes with that that would be adequate council yes yes second go ahead
 Thank you very much. So parking, parking is a challenge in urban areas. It's a scarce resource. We need to make sure we're using it in the best possible way. We really like a hotel for this site in terms of parking because it's one of the few uses where we can take our parking load and we can move it outside the hot box of where the parking intensity is.
 with valet parking systems, people that don't know our parking rules, don't know our systems, they can pull up to the front door, get out of their car, give the keys to somebody, their car goes away somewhere, and then they can do everything, you know, everything from the campus to the square they can reach easily. Next slide.
 So the math of parking for hotels is this, and this comes from our Windsor Autry, who, again, develops these hotels and knows what they're doing, and they'll be happy to talk in detail about this, is that they're seeing now with ride sharing and everything else that 70% of hotel guests do show up with a car. And again, this is the Southeast, these are pure cities, this isn't Chicago or Manhattan.
 Of those 70%, 70% will participate in the valet program. 30% just won't, like they'll find a way. But 70% will participate in that valet program. And we also always need to remember when we're talking about these hotel visitors that the people who come to our town and stay out on the bypass, they're very likely to drive downtown themselves and take a parking space. So even if we kept all hotel rooms out of downtown, you're still going to have people from outside coming into your downtown, which is again, what we want.
 Next slide. So, you know Little Rock, the downtown hotels have valet parking and even in Bentonville, Windsor Autry is developing a project in Bentonville that's going to be 100% valet parked. So this is not an exotic idea. Next.
 All right, continuing the parking math. So every parking space that's not used is a perishable asset. It's like a fresh strawberry or an airline seat. If we don't get the income from that parking stall, that income is lost forever. So what we're talking to, and we've met with Justin Clay several times, there are parking resources that are simply not being used. They're sitting there vacant. They're in the most exciting part of our town, and they're vacant, and the vacancy numbers are...
 incredible so what we're doing is we're working with the city to optimize that parking this what's what does the city get out of it they get that public benefit dollars we talked about they get the activity they also just directly get parking income for those spaces that they didn't have income forms before
 Also, we know that the city doesn't provide parking because they want the money from the meters or the tickets. They do it because they want a vibrant downtown. They want to provide a way to get people downtown. They want to support the institutions that are downtown. We know that income is not the driver, but it's important to consider.
 So just going through here, you know, worst case, we run all the numbers. If we've got 134 hotel rooms, 70% of people show up with a car, of those 70% valet, we're talking about probably 66 parking spaces for the hotel part. If the restaurant, cafe, rooftop bar, everything's humming along, that would probably be an additional 62 stalls. So those are the kind of, it's the scale of the number that we're talking with. Next slide.
 And the, you know, right now our inventory, we have 2,629 parking stalls in the downtown, in the entertainment district in downtown. So the hotel guests would be about 2.5% of that number. And again, I'm saying we're going to take that number in the places that aren't being utilized right now. If we add the restaurant and everything, it's about 4.8% of the entire inventory. Next slide.
 We want to make clear that the proposed hotel is going to have 32 to 45 parking stalls in the basement. It will be for its use. Also that the hotel operator is going to be responsible for all the logistics of moving cars and valeting. Sometimes cars have to be moved at 2 in the morning, three blocks away. That won't be the responsibility of the city. That will be the hotel operator that will do that.
 Next slide. The net for the city is $86,000 more a year income that the city don't currently have. That's 4.3% bump in your revenue. Right now Graduate Hotel gives you $105,000, so it'll be your second biggest customer. Second. Next slide. So the three big questions. What is the big idea? Time is a benefit. Time. All right. All right.
 What questions does the council have for the staff or the applicant? I have a question for Mr. Sharp before you sit down. How do you plan to address the overflow parking of those 30% that don't or that opt out of
 So the 30% that show up and don't valet, they're going to hunt around and find a parking space like everybody else. They're going to park at the Church of Christ lot or they're going to park at the medicine lot or they're going to go to the Spring Street deck and pay or they'll go to the new parking deck and pay. Okay, thank you.
 I have another question. So you're not calculating where the staff that's going to staff the hotel, where they will park and how they will get transportation there. Great point. Glad you brought that up. That is a one of the key parking strategies is staff employee parking. It's got to be off site, got to be out of the hot box. That is a that is a.
 strategy that because it's you know, it's cutting our own throat if we let the staff and boys park right at the Foot of the hotel. Yes I just didn't see that accounted for in any of your calculations and the other thing is it would be helpful to have a map of exactly where the parking that's not being used right now and and distances from that Because you know, we're still a culture of the South people like to park close by and that'll be a shift and I can speak a little bit to that in terms that I
 We're not expecting people to park four or five blocks away and walk. They're going to go to the hotel and we'll valet. The spaces that aren't being used on evening and weekends is there's that...
 lot on Mountain Street, Newark City Employees Park, about a hundred spaces. It's gated, lit, it's something that during the week used during the day 100%, but then on Friday, Saturday, Sunday nights and in the evenings it's not used at all. So that's a place that could be valeted too. We've talked about the town center decks often underutilized on the weekend. When
 when the police station moves, that's going to free up empty spaces in the town center deck and also that parking lot on Rock Street. So there's quite a bit, and it's almost invisible. You don't think of it because no one ever uses it if you don't work for the city. But those are the places where, in the hot times, we're going to be re-vallying to those spots.
 Having that represented visually would be very helpful. I'd be happy to do so. Council Member Turk, I'd like to add our parking system manager, Justin Clay, is here for further parking discussion and questions, but we can easily provide that map for you. I'm sorry, Teresa Maria. Yes.
 Have you had any conversations with the U of A? I believe that the largest parking deck in Arkansas is within walking distance of where this would be. So being able to valet there because on the weekends, it's almost, it's never full. We did have a good meeting with the U of A and we talked in general terms about, you know, whether they were going to build a hotel, we talked about parking, we talked
 you know, the benefit to them of having a place when they have guests and so that that we talked in general terms they parking for them as a third rail just as it is with us so they don't they didn't they didn't want to talk about any park sharing parking sharing but it's yeah I agree it's there but it's not not on the table. Okay thank you. Mark I believe you had your line on the mic. Well I
 I'll ask it later. I'm not sure I under, I don't know how to ask what I'm trying to get to. Okay, sure. Sorry. Do you intend to have a banquet hall? And if so, its capacity for people to come and be let out at the same time? I'd like to get Windsor Autry maybe to talk about the banquet hall if we can get them in on the Zoom. Sure.
 I don't know what the mechanics of that would be. So if Laurenz Nicholson is available to go ahead and chime in. Jack, you have Laurenz as a panelist? Yes, she should be on today. Here we go. Yeah. Here's . Jay, don't hesitate to jump in if you're there. And also our construction coordinator, Kelly Ross, is on as well.
 Right, over here. Had to get my video coordinated. So what in particular on the question of the event space,
 Yes, hi, thanks for joining us. I'm curious about a banquet hall use traditional to hotels, what you envision that occupancy load being and if you're going to have any kind of an employee count estimate and as well then if you're going to have any conference capacities, what you're anticipating in occupancy loads for a hotel.
 I'd hate to throw that back to Rob, but a lot of that will depend on the life safety and just, you know, the exits and the size and the market. So, in a lot of ways, it's to be determined as to what the size would be. It would be a combination, I would think, of event space,
 that could be changed in terms of size with partitions so that there could be a larger banquet space and then smaller meeting space within the same area. So size-wise and exact number of participants would be determined.
 And I think that question is a very good one, and it falls in that category of things that if we can get a green light and general agreement moving forward, we can work on those details and find out exactly, you know, how many occupants the banquet hall, what the market will support, what the events will support. It's a, it's, you know, we've gone to a lot of detail, but we're bumping up against time.
 you know, the level of detail we can provide without getting a green light forward. So we'll, by the time we present this for PZD, we'll have it down to the square foot and the number of occupants and everything worked out at that point. The original proposal, seven stories, 170-something room hotel, you're down to 130-something. Do you envision it being six stories or
 What are you anticipating additional office or that going to be event space? So I think the in order to make this project work, our commitment is we're going to we're going to keep it at seven stories. That's what the zoning is by right. I think it's a good scale for that site.
 134-hits-all rooms is what our market studies preliminarily is pointing us to. So any extra space, whatever we need to do to fill that building, to generate the income, to make this thing successful is what we're going to do. And that's another thing that should we get the green light from the council, we can go forward and then be very specific about what that would be.
 I kind of, okay, here's the deal. When we look at this, we look at the projected operations and the projected uses and the projected numbers. And a lot of what I'm thinking about is the history and the cycle that we've had with the, what started as the Hilton Hotel. And that was exciting when it opened, but it certainly has come and gone. The difference there is it's in a more,
 An area that is not a park, it's not a central anchor of an area. And this is actually an anchor of a public space, so it needs to be, in my mind, since it's initiated by public funds with a bond issue, to make sure that we have some type of commitment to the community as a whole as a public facility.
 The fact that we're looking at this valet parking gives me a lot of heartburn because I'm very familiar with what started as the Excelsior Hotel and the valet parking that you mentioned. And I've stayed there for years for business and it is not convenient. And it is not always the ideal situation, although their valet parking is right across
 the way it's not out of the hot spot whatever that is and so i don't think that that's a good a good way to compare it because if you're moving these cars out of the hot spot that's pretty far away right where is that so it's the i'll provide it it
 If this item should get tabled tonight, we would take that time to provide some of those graphics. Because I think that's important a lot of times when I'm in town on business, I don't want to wait an inordinate amount of time to get the car that's valet
 Even if I'm in town at a convention, I do spend time downtown in that area. The convention and the visitors and the entertainment are all definitely a destination. But I also like to come and go pretty easily. And so when I look at this and I think about the beauty of what all is presented and it's delightful and I go for all of that.
 Based on my own experience, and you know I traveled a great deal with my job The this valet concept is a little bit Far-fetched in my opinion to make it work easily and so that's why we need this information the other thing is I
 If we have a facility that's bringing people in, it's not a convention center size. It truly is to me it seems like a hotel that I'm glad you asked this about events or an event center or accommodations for a banquet.
 That's appealing, but on the other hand, how does this fit into the entertainment area? Because if you have an event center, that's generally not, or a lot of times it's not a person that's staying at the hotel, it's someone that's coming in for an event. So that's a different kind of challenge than someone that's coming in for spending the weekend and walking around and taking an Uber.
 These things are crossing my mind just based on personal experience and the fact that I do live within five blocks of this area. I'm pretty familiar with the comings and goings of people that visit our entertainment district, and I know that it's real important that we have, that we accommodate
 the region. The region right now is a big, I think probably the biggest part of money that's coming in for the entertainment district. And if they're coming in from the region, then they would expect parking. And so we don't want to take that opportunity away for people coming in specifically for that idea. We also know that in our arts center area,
 if you read in the paper today like theater squared is down 40 they're going to be building back up in order to build back up if you look at the demographics going to be people that are older that have some money to spend on dinner and we want to get them down there but they have to be down there or they simply we have to accommodate them and their automobile their auto-centric
 We don't have public transportation. And so this is much more complicated than just saying, well, we're going to handle this through valet, at least in my opinion, based on personal experience, based on my observation of what comes into the entertainment district, because I like to walk down and watch and walk through.
 I'm boring, I'm old, it works for me. But we have invested a lot of money in the art center and Theater Squared, and we have to realize who is coming to see that and who we have to build as far as people coming in regionally. And so parking is a big deal right at the moment for the,
 performances that are happening right then so this is all crossing my mind I do I'm going to suggest that we hold off on this because I think that with your presentation if it can get out more we would have better feedback there's still a lot of unknowns with the business leaders that I talked to in the area and across the central part of the city
 you've answered a lot of questions tonight i also see this as a of course the ideal that's what you present and it's a great ideal but we certainly need to get some good feedback from those that are directly
 that have a direct impact and they've been visiting with us. Don't worry about that. But I think that you do have a lot more information than maybe they have seen. Right. Yeah, it's going to take, it's a, I mean we've made several presentations, you know, the Cultural Arts Corridor Steering Committee, the Family Arts Council, Walton Arts Center
 that you know we we and we know we've released information to the media it just takes a while to percolate through and it and it's it's we were certainly willing to take some time and get the information out and sort of well i hope that the there is a feeling that this is a
 an item that fits into what they voted for because it is public money that put all this together. So somehow we have to get across the point because we voted for this, it's public funds. How does it really impact me as a taxpayer that is financing the bonds? Sure, and there's, I should have emphasized this when I talked about parking is, you know,
 my client is making a 50 million dollar bet that the parking is going to work so if any if the parking doesn't work and if his consultants are wrong and he gets it wrong he's going to suffer more than anyone in this room i don't know suddenly i'm more nervous with that yeah but and so it's just a it's a
 And it is a, you know, I mentioned this whole cultural arts cohort where it's a quantum leap forward and it's going to be, there's going to be some scary parts to it. And we're going to work out, we've taken it as far as we can get it, I think, and I look forward to taking it to the finish line. But this is certainly.
 You know, we need a lot more input on it. Well again, this is the heart of Ward 2, and so I have interest in representing the voice of that area. So, Rob, I'm not trying to be tough and I'm not trying to be pessimistic. I just think that it's a lot to think about. I always appreciate caution in an elected official. I am so cautious.
 You know, I am in favor also of, you know, I think this is, we've got some questions we need to get answered still. I don't share Mark's fear about the valet parking because I'm a person that likes to go to a hotel. I don't want to be driving my car. I want it out of sight, out of mind, you know.
 and I'm the person that's going to stay at the hotel and walk pretty much to everything. So that's why I like to be around where the restaurants and bars and theaters and stuff like that are. So, but I do think we have a lot of questions about the parking and the, in particular, the valet parking. And, you know, I know I've been to,
 You mentioned the Excelsior, I guess it's the Marriott now in Little Rock. I went to the Municipal League there once and everybody let out all at the same time. So we're all waiting for 30, 40 minutes to get our ballot. But that was hundreds of people all at the same time. So I don't think this is going to be quite as big as that and I do recognize that the
 box of parking can change over time as things develop in downtown. So it is something we should consider. You know, as more things are built, you know, there may be greater demands on parking. So I'm all in favor of holding this and getting some more information. Mayor Jordan, is there a time that we need to make a decision?
 I think there's a time we have to make a decision. You make a decision when you get ready to. I wasn't sure if we had to make a, if there was a deadline, because I do echo what Mark said. I think that we should definitely wait. I've had conversations this past Saturday with some business owners, and they had some concerns. Thank you.
 So Mayor, if I could interject. The time constraint, DeAndra, I think we have plenty of time to do what you all are suggesting and have more interaction with community. The time constraint would be with when we would like to have the issue resolved so that we can get on with the process.
 final design of the construction documents for the plaza and that was what Wade tried to point out in his earlier questions and so those I believe were due in January was that correct we would let the bids in January so we hope to have this resolved before the end of the year.
 Because everything's setting up on time and every time we delay a project, you all have been through some of the project we have delayed and it costs us X for per year. But I do not want to, you know, I mean, I think, as Wade said, what do you think, Wade, a decision to be made? Yeah, so. Help me out here. Yeah.
 So like I say, we're working to get the construction drawings complete so we can bid in January. So obviously there's some coordination. What we're trying to do is once we get approval moved forward, we've got some refinement to do with the landscape architects just around the building footprint. So that all coordinates. So yeah, if we can get something in November.
 probably good I do do want to emphasize once that deck is done the mayor's going to be building the rest of the plaza but unless you oh stop me or could we do you think does everybody think maybe two weeks mr. sharp you know two weeks for the our next meeting that you could get the so
 I'd like to hear all the public comment that we have this evening because I think some things may come up that either we can answer immediately or may take longer than two weeks. So I don't even think I have my arms around the questions yet. Okay. Thank you. Yes, Teresa.
 So, Wade, maybe if you can come back up here a little bit, that would be helpful. I just want to point out that when the public voted on this, they voted on a south building, but they did not vote on a hotel. So I'm surprised that we have to have construction designs here.
 something that the public did not vote on necessarily before we move forward so I'm feeling quite rushed about this even though you pointed out all the steps that you've done to get to where we are here but this is a second very large project in the in the corridor
 that again the public probably did not anticipate happening. So if you could explain a little bit more, maybe that would be very helpful to us. Well, some of the coordination is with the stage and the backstage area that is a part of the corridor and how that would back up to the building footprint that Rob's working on. So we need the elevations and the actual layout of the building to coordinate that.
 Is there any intermediate way that you could do that without getting approval by November? Well, it's like the Mayor says, we're going to build a plaza regardless. Right, but I might ask you to think about some way to... Right, I mean if we would have to go back and kind of work from the back to the front to work that in.
 I mean ideally we'd have the information up front. So, well do you know when the deck is supposed to be fully operational? We hope to have it substantially complete in the spring of 24. But when is it going to be operational? Because that's the requirement before you start taking away any other spaces. It has to be operational and Ted Belden said August. Is that wrong? Substantially complete means that you can use it for its intended use.
 So when Ted Belden said it wouldn't be finished until August, that's incorrect? I don't know why Ted Belden would understand that. He sent a letter. Construction. Yeah, I don't agree with that. Okay, thank you. Okay.
 One of the things that, the way that I look at this is, I'm fine, wait, is that we, you know, we had our bond initiative covered kind of this broad idea of this arts corridor. It didn't define this right here will be in this spot right here. I mean, we talked about Civic Plaza with kind of it.
 I don't want to say it was nebulous, but it had some definition. It was framed in a certain way, but it wasn't definitive. And I don't recall what Theresa said about, well, we didn't vote on a hotel, but we've shaped this over time, and I think the people voted on certain things.
 And the hotel, I believe, fits in with that. And the discussion of the hotel and the possibility of that has, I believe, been discussed over a long period of time and was brought up at
 If I remember correctly, one of the things I'm forgetting in this process is how long it's been going on. I forget what we talked about two years ago or three years ago or when we had the bond and kind of try to get it all. It's not in a linear fashion. It doesn't come block by block.
 But I do believe that we discussed this at public input sessions. I'm not positive of that, but that's the way I remember it anyway. And so the public may have not voted on a hotel, but I think the discussion has been out there about this type of use for the space. And so I don't, I think it's been pretty well discussed. I don't think it's been hidden or anything.
 Back to questions that y'all might have. We have...
 number of staff who've been participating in the project and so maybe not tonight or if you would more questions that if you're going to table it that we can be sure to have responses to we talked at length with our development services department about parking requirements in non-residential areas we're not going to go into that tonight unless you want to but we're prepared to do that Justin does have the maps and the numbers
 on our excess parking in these other areas, that would be easy to produce. I know that Allison and Joanna have been working with the Arts Council and there are some different ideas coming forward. Thank you, Council Member Harvey.
 with representing the Arts Council. So lots of different staff have been included. And so we can put Wade on the spot, but he might also want to ask for help because we've got so many different staff who've been involved. Do you guys think we should start with that now or should we go into?
 public comment well
 Now, I will tell you, and you can show a picture of that thing, I showed a building on the south end and I showed a building on the north end and I showed that 18 times because I can remember when I campaigned for the bond project. Now we did not define what they were.
 I just said there will be a large building on the south end and a building on the north end. So I want to clarify that. I did not specify we're going to put a hotel down here, but everybody knew going into that the design that we had got all kinds of public comment on. I showed that particular design did not define what those buildings were. So I want to be fair. You are right about that.
 And Mayor, you were also pretty consistent with your message about active use and cash registers ringing. I did. Yes, I was to the point on that. We got to have a tax base to operate this city. And I got to admit, I'm watching two brand new hotels go up in the city to the north of us. And that causes me concern because we're all competing for the same tax dollars in the
 That's I'm not saying that didn't cross my mind. Anyway, let's take some public comment. I know those will be entertaining As always Everybody gets one turn speak Everybody gets five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic and
 give us your name and address and those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that who would like to address this first um mayor we have richard gaithright on zoom oh yes sorry all right go ahead
 Hello everybody. Mayor, council members, thank you so much for having me tonight. My name is Richard Gathroyd. I reside at 21 East Center Street. I'm a downtown resident. I'm a local realtor, and I'm also the director of Northwest Arkansas Pride, which is that capacity I am here tonight.
 We've been having conversations about the Upper Ramble for a while now with city staff and other folks, and we're very, very, very excited about it. It gives us an opportunity to have infrastructure and facilities that we don't have access to now and a beautiful space to host Northwest Arkansas Pride, which when I took over in 2018, we had 15,000 attendees, and this past summer, we've grown to over 30,000 attendees.
 Now I believe we're the largest festival in Fayetteville, you know, aside from Razorback weekends. The main reasons I think this hotel is a good idea, and I would encourage you all to vote for this LOI, is it creates more hotel rooms in the downtown area, and especially right on the Ramble. That gives our festival-goers a really exciting place to stay that can be right at the festival, view the parade,
 participate in bars, restaurants, shops, and other activities in Fayetteville. The second reason is, at some point, we're going to start running into issues with dressing rooms and green rooms. And right now, we're using the Wal-Mart Center, but there are times where they have shows loading in and out. And that does not give us access to the back-of-the-house facilities that we need for our
 entertainers and VIPs and what have you that we bring in for Pride. I believe that this hotel would give us hotel rooms where they could shower, stay, use the bathroom, meeting spaces that could be turned into green rooms so they're not having to sit outside in 100 degree weather under a tent dying before they go on stage.
 The third is it also does give us additional bathrooms, which is always, you know, something that is necessary to have a festival of this size. And you know, I think the right people are involved in this. I think Rob and Brian are great leads to facilitate this. And Northwest Arkansas Equality and Northwest Arkansas Pride are very impressed with the consensual photos.
 and other things that we have seen, you know, over the past year or so. Yes, I definitely have questions about the parking and all of that, but I think, you know, that can, I think that can be sorted out and I would love to see this project go forward and not get delayed any more than is necessary. So I just wanna, I wanna thank you all for having me tonight and please, please think about voting yes for this LOI. Thank you. Ben Clark. Can you go ahead?
 Hi, my name is Ben Clark. I'm the owner of B Unlimited in Fayetteville, Arkansas. I just wanted to, when I saw that this was on the docket, I just wanted to jump at the opportunity. We bring in lots of people, customers, vendors, from all over the world, really. Can you hear me okay? Yes. Okay. And we're always trying to,
 Actually, they fly in. We pick them up from the airport. We set them up at the hotel, usually the graduate as of now, but a lot of times it's booked up and we're not able to get it for the amount of rooms that we need. So this is just very appealing to us as a business to be able to host people
 downtown Fayetteville, where they can go out and we can gather at the local bars and restaurants when we bring them to show our beautiful city off. I just think it's just a slam dunk. And then I've also... I know Brian Rindle. I know Rob Sharp.
 those guys and everything I've seen them do had just been incredible all the way up and down Dixon Street and Block Street and up on the square. I just think that they're the right team. They've got they've got a good group together. Crawford obviously has been around for a while in Fayetteville. It's a Fayetteville company. They will do a great job.
 orchestrating this, you know, and working with the city with the big development like we're doing right now with being limited and on the south side. So I just wanted to just let everybody know that being unlimited is votes yes. And I know how these projects can linger on and I hope that we don't lose it because right now we're honestly, we are having to send people up north and we don't like that. We want to keep people close to our business and our headquarters.
 And we want to show off Dixon Street and block and what Fayetteville has to offer right down there. So it's very, very cool, and it's very unique compared to all the other cities that I get to travel to. The other thing is with valet parking, I travel quite a bit, and I stay at a lot of hotels, a lot of boutique hotels similar to this one. And with the technology now, with able to just...
 You know, you send your car tag number down on a text thread, and they'll tell you exactly when it's ready. So you can do that ahead of time, and you know your car is there and ready to be picked up when you come down to the hotel lobby. I don't think that's going to be any kind of issue. If I know these, knowing Brian Rondo and just knowing this group, I just know that they'll have all this. Those are just things that will get ironed out for sure. But anyway, I appreciate y'all's time, and I just wanted to let y'all know that.
 being limited myself or for this hotel being built here. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? Jerry Davis. Go ahead. Hi, yes. Can everyone hear me? Hello? Yes. OK.
 Hello, my name is Jerry Davis, Mayor Jordan and City Council members. I appreciate your time today. I just want to say I am the general manager for 21st Amendment, Rogers Rec, Los Bogos and West End here in downtown Fayetteville on Dixon Street.
 I just want to give our opinion on this. We are 100% for the hotel. I remember being in a meeting with Mayor Jordan probably about, I don't know, two years ago, maybe about a year ago. I don't know exactly when it was. But Mayor Jordan, when he was asked about the cultural arts corridor as a whole, he used the words world class.
 And that has always stuck with me. Just hearing that word, I was like, man, this is actually gonna be an amazing thing that's getting brought to downtown Fayetteville. And so everything that has been, that's happened thus far has been nothing short of world-class. It's been amazing to see
 all the construction and everything and see how Fayetteville, downtown Fayetteville has changed as far as I've been on Dixon Street for the past 10 years. So everyone's done a great job with that. I will say this hotel is going to be nothing short of that world class as well. This is exactly what we need. My only reservation though is the parking. And I will just say, I,
 I'm a believer in the valet. I do believe that it will work, but I know the people that will be coming to Fayetteville, a lot of these people are just smarter than...
 than what this valet is going to provide. I think valet, you know, where are these cars going to go when they get valeted? Timing is everything, and I think that Mark Hain hit that nail on the head pretty well. People are impatient. They are ready to get their cars now. And me, I know myself personally, if I was staying downtown in Fayetteville, I think for the first,
 year or so, this is probably going to work. I think about three or four years down the road, if we just look ahead, I think people are gonna get smart. I think they're going to understand that valet's probably gonna cost them $20, $30 per night. I don't know, I don't know the exact numbers, but when you can just go and park your vehicle in the parking deck or in a Spring Street parking lot or anywhere on Dixon Street and pay $5 for a day,
 I would probably much rather do that than do valet. I know it's convenient, but it's nothing for me to just walk down the street. And now the city of Fayetteville has made it a little more convenient because all you have to do is just put in your tag number on an app and...
 pay the money. And so it's, you don't even have to go to a pay station anymore. You can just do that and to pay that $5 and you're there all day. So I think those numbers, I personally think those numbers are slightly skewed. I think that maybe that's what it will be now, but I think if we're looking ahead, I think it's going to change. And I really think that maybe possibly it may not be efficient for the hotel, but I understand that my understanding is that
 you guys are going to be building parking spaces for it right now. Why can't we just go ahead and double that and maybe do two levels of a parking deck to be able to fulfill most of those parking needs and not dump that,
 the rest of that on to Dixon Street because I really have a feeling that that is what is going to end up happening Ultimately when it comes to this parking But like I said, we're 100% for this hotel. We need this hotel. This is going to be
 be world-class. This is going to completely change the dynamic of Dixon Street, of downtown Fayetteville. And yeah, I just, I really, I really think that personally, we should probably
 table this maybe. I'm not gonna say I'm not against it, but I do think that there are some questions that just need to be answered when it comes to the parking and maybe get everyone on the same page so we can just get this thing figured out as quickly as and as officially as possible. Yeah, I appreciate everyone's time and hope you guys have a wonderful night. So, Jerry, I wanna understand, do you think we should just go ahead and double the parking deck we're doing now?
 I don't know if my heart can really stand that. I think that, I'm sorry, Mayor. I think that maybe the hotel should double the parking. Okay. What they are currently providing. I misunderstood you. I thought the one that I'm building now. Sorry. Sorry about that. No, that's okay. I just, all right. No one else on Zoom, Mayor. All right. Who would like to address this in the council? Chair. Yes. Yes.
 Hello, I'm Anita Cowan. I live at 16261 Wyman Road and I've lived and worked in Fayetteville my entire life. I'm proud to say I've ridden every trail in Fayetteville and I'm very active in our community.
 I currently work at the community creative center which is in the Walton Art Center's Nadine Baum studio, the space directly behind the proposed hotel. And no, we have not been contacted about the impact this hotel will cause.
 But for the last 25 years I worked at local radio stations doing promotions and events. I've attended committee member meetings with the city of Fayetteville, nonprofits, and merchants association to help plan and promote events. I've also created many events myself. I've been a part of Fayetteville for a very long time. I'm here today because somehow a park that was planned is now being offered up to development for a for-profit hotel.
 A space with a 360 view to the public. Several events I've created were held in local hotels, so I've spent an exuberant amount of time in the back of a hotel setting up for events. Hotels aren't like Monopoly pieces in a space. They require necessary but very ugly spaces. They have shipping docks, trash dumpsters, air conditioning units, grease traps...
 None that I saw on the plan today. All that our beautiful trail system will be wrapped around. Have you ever spent any time in the back of a hotel? I challenge the city council and the city officials to spend some quality time behind a 150 room hotel and see if that's where you want to see the lower ramble to see when riding up to the Dixon Street along the beautiful arts corridor.
 This seven-story hotel will be a divider instead of a uniter. It will block several businesses from downtown and cause serious congestion and delay. The Community Creative Center Circle Drive is directly behind the proposed hotel.
 It will be full of Uber and Lyft drivers waiting for people to depart from the hotel or drivers needing to make deliveries while the Community Creative Center is trying to load and unload children for summer camp. The City of Fayetteville has already gambled with a developer when they allowed one to tear down the historic Mountain Inn with the promise of rebuilding it and it didn't happen. We already have the perfect place for a hotel.
 Have them rebuild the much needed anchor to our square in the mountain space. Connect the entertainment district with a free trolley that unites the square, Dixon Street, and the surrounding areas. When I asked city officials how did we get here from one day approving a park and then one entity being given the jewel of Fayetteville's real estate to develop a hotel, I've been told several times it was because only one person submitted plans.
 That makes me question the application process. How could one of the top five places in the United States offer developers this opportunity and only receive one application? Was the process flawed? I don't know. This hotel will not add to the space, but it will divide and not be uniter. The purpose for this hotel is so people can stay where they want to be.
 but will they still want to be there when we take away the beauty that makes the city unique i feel like we can accomplish this if we put the hotel in the mountain in space and continue to build the park promised to the residents of fayetteville and connect the districts through free trolleys and transportation
 My big worry is that we were talking about size and that hasn't been outlined. Your maps did not show shipping, loading, unloading, trash dumpsters, all of these things necessary to have a hotel. It just showed a picturesque thing in the corner. I have seen the hotels. They don't just look like that.
 I'm worried we don't have a size. I'm worried that the green space is going to turn out to be just a front yard to a hotel in which people are afraid to play in. It won't be what you dreamed. It'll be a large hotel with a large event space, but not large enough to be useful in the event world. But it will cause a lot of problems that we haven't looked at.
 Again, no one has asked what it would do to the visual arts studio at the beginning of the arts corridor. Thank you. Thank you. Hi. Good evening. Mark Scalise, 3268 Hearthstone Drive, Fayetteville.
 I was shocked when I opened the paper on Sunday and I saw a hotel in that space. I'm going to be honest, I'm not up here to hear myself talk, but I am going to absolutely echo what Therese had to say as just a person in the community I did not anticipate when we were talking about Arts Corridor having a hotel.
 echoing what Mark said, I travel a lot, stay in a lot of hotels. The parking issue is big. Everybody wants to sweep it under the rug. Oh, we'll figure it out somehow. It'll all be okay. It won't be okay unless you have a plan. And having some kid going blocks, two blocks, three blocks, to find your car is not the answer, I promise you. And also, this young lady just had to say, I think she made some good points.
 that should be considered. It is not just a beautiful building. There's a lot more that goes into a hotel, what you said, the docks, you know, the trash, everything else. It's going to take up a big part of that parking lot, and it is going to turn into a hotel with a front yard, I'm afraid, and I was just surprised. I just want to let you know that. That's all I want to say. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor and members of the Council. It is always a pleasure to see you and talk to you. I thank you for the opportunity. And I always, when I see each one of you, I thank you for your service to city staff and you put in amazing time and it should be thanked. So thank you just on behalf of myself.
 I come to you speaking on this from my perspective as a Fayetteville citizen, also a member of the Walton Arts Center Board and a former member of the council. I used to memorize a lot of stuff, but years have gone by and now I've got notes. I want to say first and foremost, I'm not against a hotel. A well-planned, well thought out with parking as one of those keystone items, I think would be great for the downtown area.
 I remember back when we campaigned for this and we talked about different uses for the building and We talked about multi-use we talked about we've talked about low-cost housing possibilities. We talked about Condos with retail we talked about a lot of things. I never Campaigned that this could possibly be a hotel. I know things change but had I gone to somebody then and said I
 I want you to vote because we're going to ask the taxpayers to build a park, which I used to call the park and get yelled at by the former chief of staff. But we're going to ask the taxpayers to build a park, and then we're going to sell a slice of it via a public-private partnership and build a hotel with no real plan for the additional parking that will be needed. I wouldn't have wanted to have that conversation. I think that changes everything.
 I'm worried about the 200 or so cars that this hotel will bring on any given night. Mr. Sharpe, I think, used a conservative estimate of, I think he said 66, using his percentages. My worry is what if it's a game weekend, two couples share a room, that's two cars. What if there's something going on at an event, as you said, that has nothing to do with the hotel? It's extra parking. Those are difficult things to deal with.
 I was in Memphis recently and stayed at a hotel off Beale Street that is valet parking. And I purposely asked the valet at the end of my stay when I got my car back, where do you valet park these cars? And he told me. So I drove to that spot.
 and then measured non-scientifically the time it took me and the mileage that it took me to get there. Then I came back, started at where this hotel might go, and I drove to places like the town center. I drove to some of the only open spaces that could even possibly be used for valet parking. I promise you it's farther, and I promise you it's up a big hill no matter how you go.
 So that's a real problem. And I think Mr. Sharp said something great. He said we can go back and show you details if you decide to table it. I hope that happens tonight. I would like to know things like the distance of where that valley is going to be. And unless they hire the University of Arkansas cross-country team, I'm not sure who can get a car back and forth in any amount of time. And I say that literally because I wouldn't want to do it.
 We did have a parking study before when I was on the council. It addressed parking in a broad range using a large map. There's a parking study being done now by the Walnut Center and business owners
 And that will give us a much better, realistic, needing parking downtown and what it will mean for projects like this. Again, I'm not against any hotel. I'm not against any developer. I'm not against any of that. It has to be well thought out. I would ask that you as a council wait until that study is completed at the very least. Certainly wait for these details to come back that Mr. Sharp has promised us.
 He said he's got, you know, his investor has $50 million at stake. I would say that the public has a lot at stake as well because there's a lot of confusion on why now we have seemingly transformed this from some of the artistic space we were talking about. Some of the things that were in those original plans are now being talked about for a, as the lady said, a for-profit hotel. Yeah.
 Not against it, but I think it definitely warrants time and more conversation. There's a lot at stake, and this is really our only chance to do it. So thank you all very much for your time. Thank you, Justin. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi everybody, my name is Beau Counts. I'm a resident of Ward 2. I live two blocks that way. I'm also a local business owner. I own Pinpoint, which is one block that way. So I'm right here in the hot box, as we've been calling it today. And one of the things that I really wasn't going to talk about parking, I promise, but after tonight's meeting, because I've been in many of these meetings, we've all been in many of these meetings.
 where we just shake our head and it's like oh can we not talk about parking you know we did parking studies that say we don't have a parking problem we have a walkability problem so let's build these trails let's build these things let's encourage people to walk because that's what makes a vibrant downtown is walking
 And now I'm sitting in a meeting that's all about parking and lack of parking. And as a business owner who has employees that we've begged for employee parking, it's miraculously become an important topic in this meeting and not other meetings where, you know, for years Dixon Street business owners have gone, where do our employees park? Well, I don't know, figure it out. There's employee parking nine miles that way. That's where we did it. And so it's kind of been fascinating tonight seeing like now this is a big important topic.
 That's not what I want to talk about. I just want to identify how odd that was. What I did want to talk about today is as a tenant of Brian Rheindel's, you know, we've been like any tenant and tenor or whatever we're called resident. We butted heads a lot, but I have faith that Brian has passion for this community.
 the work that he's done with that metro district. Remember when it was what, experienced denim in an old train station? And he transformed that place that has been vibrant ever since. My building, which was literally condemned, wood so rotten you could stick your finger in it, instead of bulldozing it, it is now a vibrant place home to 10 local businesses. Not 10 roofs, not Chewy's, not Wits, local businesses.
 And we have a relationship. Rob Sharp walks down Block Street every day. His office is there. He has a vested interest in the success of this downtown. Another thing.
 that I really wanted to mention is just the existence of a hotel. Everybody says we need more places to live. That's why Airbnb is such a big deal down in our ward. Airbnb is a huge problem in our ward. And not to go off in another rabbit hole, but it was talked about today. We have a 2% cap.
 We talk about how 2% is a negligible number spread out over the city. Well, we just saw 2% of parking. Somehow not negligible when it's this issue. And also when you drill down 2% in one tiny area, it does become an issue. So a 2% cap of Airbnbs on an entire city when it's all in the entertainment district creates a housing desert.
 So you think, okay, well, where are all these people going to stay? Well, the need is there, so they're taking away workforce housing to turn into Airbnbs. Well, if we put another 134 units where people can come and stay in luxury and not have to pay fees for doing laundry and taking out trash, and it's a lot more convenient and more luxury, then we've also de-invented.
 decreased the need for housing to be taken away from workforce renters to be turned into short-term rentals. So that's something that I don't think anybody's really discussed that other larger cities do take into consideration is you know hotel provides places for these tourists to come and I literally have a business across the street from the Graduate and
 It's booked up all the time. And those customers walk right across the street and they patron our businesses. They have a tiny little parking deck behind there, but everybody seems to make it work. So many people come in from out of town. Where do all the sports people stay? They stay there. The movie star that just came into my hotel or bar the other day stayed at the Chancellor.
 and it's full, always full. And I think that this is gonna be a net positive. Sure, there's gonna be headaches along the way, and I think we do need to have that plan. If you guys know me, you know I like a good plan. But we did open Pandora's box with the Arts Corridor, with public and private partnerships, which I was there at the initial city meeting, which I actually brought pizza to. I don't know if you guys remember that. But we talked about
 What's going to happen in these public-private spaces? Well, we didn't know then. And now there's stuff starting to happen. And just because it's a little bit different and a little bit uncomfortable, I don't think we should immediately, you know, poo-poo it to the side because it's a growing pain that we weren't ready for. You know, we weren't ready for an arts corridor either. And it's coming and we voted for it. We're spending money on it. And I think that
 The uncomfortable elements that we have from this are going to not even remotely outweigh the net positives for our downtown. And as a member of this downtown, I support it. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Hello, Mayor, City Council. Mayor and I worked together on this bond issue. I was campaign chair. I put Lyle to work for quite a few days. Yes, you did.
 And we're happy that we did pass it because it has created a lot of opportunity. We see it happening all over Fayetteville, the result of the 10 for Fayetteville. This was issue or question eight on the ballot. And my concern, first of all, I want to say I kind of paralleled what Justin just said. My concern is we did not tell the voters this was going to be a hotel.
 Now, I know we can make the argument that that was left open. There was all kinds of discussions during that time, all kinds of representations. It might be it might be this. It might be that lucky for us. The voters went and voted for it without having that firmed up. And of course, here we are today. You firm it up. I got to say that the city.
 did attempt to show some possibilities in their renderings. And those renderings were used throughout the campaign. There was some discussion of how many stories and what it could be during those campaign days. But there is also overwhelming concern that two hotels come online at the same time down that area. Will they survive?
 The city is in talks with Belden and House, and that has not been concluded. Do we really want to take this on at the same time, given the history of what happened in downtown Faithville on the failed hotel project down there? I'm not trying to cast any stones at anybody, but there needs to be a tremendous amount of consideration
 before we enter into any agreement uh if you would like to see i got copies of what the city posted up on its own website that question eight was there's no mention of any buildings nor a hotel so but there was in the renderings pardon but there was in the renderings that we showed in the renderings i i didn't call it a hotel yeah i do acknowledge that so
 My feelings, Mr. Scalise indicated that he probably would have had some difficulty supporting it had we told people we were going to build a hotel. So there's always the question of did we operate in good faith with the voters? Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Jordan. Thank you, Council. Thank you, Jim. Thank you.
 That was Jeff Coney, by the way. I don't think he told you his name. I am Ted Belden. I live at 504 East Lafayette.
 And my name was mentioned about a letter that I wrote to you all, a memo, about the date of the parking deck being completed. And we need to just verify that with NatPulse. They're our contractor. I've been attending biweekly meetings with the contractor. And I thought I was at a meeting. They said it was going to be completed in July. But that had no weather delays. We're getting ready to have some bad weather like today. So we're going to have some bad weather days for the construction. I think it's going to be about August.
 but we can verify that with NatBolts for sure. We've all spent much time and money on this project that we are calling the Cultural Arts Corridor. We are close to making the final decision on what we will do at the south end of the Ramble. We are not in agreement on what is the best solution. There's no doubt about that in my mind. The city, as previously said, I don't believe can begin construction until August of next year when the parking deck will be completed. I'm fortunate to be involved in that project with Greg House.
 And, Mayor, when we built that, it was the word catalyst, which I think is a great word, to be utilized for future development. We wouldn't have built that parking deck if we didn't have the option to buy the Bank of Fayetteville parcel on the corner of Dixon and West. We do have that option. We are in the process of exercising that option right now.
 We do have a letter of intent with a hotel developer that we want to pursue. He does not want to be named, but we are in the process of due diligence with a hotel developer for that site on Dixon and West. So I'm glad everybody feels that a hotel in downtown is needed and wanted, and we plan to build one right there on that site on the corner of Dixon and West using private funds, no city funds for that project at all.
 What I would propose that we do is take some time. We have the rights to build on the north end of the Ramble. Brian is a great guy, and we have talked to Brian, and he has an RFP that y'all are considering here for the south end of the Ramble. We have landscape architects that have spent a lot of time trying to figure out what to do with this park.
 I've talked to them and I've asked them some questions about what they would do with these two ends of the park. They didn't really answer because I don't think they've been given the authority to look at what could happen to the park utilizing the south and north ends of the Ramble. I think that we should talk to them about that. I think we need to have meetings with them and we being stakeholders of the process,
 I think that Brian, Greg, myself, I think Rob Sharp, I think Chris Barabo, an architect that we've been working with, and I think council members, some council members could be added to it, Walnut Center folks, Theater Squared folks, and probably a Dixon Street merchant. So I think a committee should be formed and take about three to four months to talk about what is really best for this park. Thank you.
 I don't know what might come out of that. We might be back right where we are, but I think there's a better solution here. I truly do. And I would like to have the time to be able to do that and would hope that you all would think the same way.
 There is going to be another hotel that's being built in south Fayetteville right now called the Moxie. We'll build our hotel. I agree that the Mountain Insight, there's plans for a hotel there. So it's going to be more hotels, thank goodness for downtown Fayetteville. I don't think we need a hotel here in this location for sure. And I'd like the opportunity to talk to other people about that.
 We do have in our proposal to build a food hall concept in the Civic Plans building, and I think that's very much necessary. We will have a food component in this park for the community to utilize. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ted. Mr. Mayor, members of the Council, my name is Steve Clark. I'm president of the Fayetteville Chamber. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane in South Fayetteville.
 As you might suspect, any lawful business that's coming to Fayetteville, the Chamber is very excited about. So any business is something that makes us smile and we like to encourage that. But I think one of the things that we have begun to realize at our organization is there's more than just one more.
 So as we look at this issue, and to the members of the council, I was in the mayor's office last week, and I said, Mr. Mayor, so you will know, at this point, the chamber would not be supportive of this. Not because we think it's a bad project, but we're not sure there's been enough information gathered. We didn't go any deeper than that, but at least there was that notice. That notice was to say, we're a growing city.
 22, 22 census say we have 98,000 plus. So the 23 census is going to say we have 100,000 plus. At 2% a year, that's 2,000 people. Somebody moving here every six hours. Moving here or being born here. The people who frequent the entertainment district don't often come to stay the night. They often come for the night.
 early hours, early hours, more in the late hours than the early, but they come for an experience that they can have. There are 200 plus businesses in and around that entertainment industry. Not all of them are in hospitality or entertainment, but there are still businesses that are there. We don't have enough parking today. If those businesses are going to grow, and let's say they want to have ambition to do something additionally,
 They want to put on an event. They want to get permission to have a celebration. And whether they're locally owned or corporately owned is really not the issue. It is the effort. Do they have the opportunity to grow their business in place larger than what it is today based on a continually growing population? The projections are by 2045, we're over 155,000 people.
 So that means there are more potential customers to come every year than there were the year before. If we didn't have enough spaces last year, we won't have enough spaces this year. If we don't have enough spaces this year, we won't have enough spaces next year because the number of parties growing and we grow in one of the youngest demographic groups, which are generally 18 to 30.
 7,000 freshman students don't spend much time thinking about spending the night on Dixon Street. And their parents don't think much about that either, honestly. And the guests that come to the Walton Arts Center or the guests that come to Theater Squared don't usually think of that either. They can, but there will be a continued improvement in the number of people who will want to be a participant in the entertainment district.
 So I think, and my concern is, and our concern is, there's not enough discussion. There needs to be a discussion with some of those businesses to say, do you have plans to expand? Do you have plans to add services or programs? Do you have plans to elevate what your presence is in the community? Because you think there's an opportunity to do that. You give them an answer that says, we're going to plan for today and be happy with it.
 That's very, very difficult for them to factor into their business growth. So we are not opposed to any lawful business. So we're certainly not opposed to a new hotel. We're certainly not opposed to a new restaurant. We're certainly not opposed to a new rooftop bar. It would be silly to do that.
 But we are opposed to complicating a program more than it is already complicated by not taking into account what are the aspirations and intentions of those that are there. They're there. They've spent their money. They bet their whatever it is they're betting on this, their reputation, their fortune, their whatever it may be. So we would ask you not to do this.
 not to you get some of the questions answered. I listened to the meeting before I got here. I've heard some of the questions from the members of the council. They're very good questions and there is no answer other than trust me. And I don't think that's a good answer. Thank you. Mayor council. My name is Kevin Fry. I live at nine 30 South Washington Avenue. Don't you wish we would just write you letters instead of taking up five minutes of your time. Um,
 So I live in Ward 1. I own a business in Ward 2 here on Dixon. I have been there for almost eight years on Dixon Street. And the bummer that I've seen, for lack of better words, over the last eight years is a flip. And that flip is people going north for entertainment.
 people going north for things that they enjoy, whether that be restaurants, nice hotels, bars. When I first got here, that was not true. When I came to school here, that was not true. Everybody came to Fayetteville.
 My fear as a business owner, as somebody who has invested multiple times in Fayetteville and will continue to do so because I love it. My fear is that we're going to lose business to the north. I think this project, the Ramble, which I'm so excited about, is laying the foundation for the future of our city, especially our downtown.
 And I think that for me, it's so important. And my family. My business has gone through some different stages, but the last reinvestment that we've made there actually took away some of the parking that we have. And that was intentional.
 um my experience of almost a decade on dixon and in downtown and the entertainment district is that if you build things that draw people in they're going to be there and i know that that's not really the question i know that we don't even want to talk about parking it's like that's the word we don't want to hear my experience though is that we have made more money now as a small business when we took away parking and put other things in that place and
 for people to come and enjoy, for people to be outside. To me, the future for my son here in Fayetteville, I have 11 month old, I wouldn't be a dad if I didn't mention that. It's important, it's important for him to have things when he grows up to be proud of. And I think that that's what we're building here with the Ramble. But I think projects like this are important for us. We need them.
 We need to stop losing business to Bentonville, I'll say it, because I've experienced that firsthand, and I'm tired of it. I want to see Fayetteville thrive. I want to be here for the rest of my life. So, yeah, thank you all for your time. Thank you. I have a quick question, Mr. Frye.
 I didn't catch the name of your business. Oh, yes. Puritan Coffee and Beer were on the north end of Dixon. Sorry, ends up being the east end of Dixon. And did you put in a pocket park or put in outdoor? We didn't. So the space there, part of that was owned by the landlord there and it had parking spots on it. And instead, we opted to put food trucks there and to put an outdoor space. Okay. Thank you very much.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council members. Appreciate the time. My name is David Russell. I live at 2311 East Tall Oaks in Fayetteville. I've lived in Fayetteville for over 25 years.
 Simply put, my opinion is we need a hotel in the entertainment district in Fayetteville because of pressures from the north. And I'm not going to recount all of the positives we've heard tonight. I'm not going to try to counter the negatives we've heard. But I
 I would like to see this move forward as quickly as possible. I've known Mr. Rindle for over 10 years. I've known C.R. Crawford Company for many years as well. And I know that Mr. Rindle, anything that he touches and develops and you can walk through any of them in Fayetteville are first class. He doesn't do anything halfway. And if he feels like this is a viable project, I know there was a question of viability,
 He will figure out if it's not viable and he feels like it. I'm sure he feels like it is or he wouldn't be pursuing this. But you know, when you look at a hotel off the square that on certain weekends can charge almost $1,000 a room, $1,000 a room that tells you that supply and demand tells you there's a need for a hotel.
 And I'm not being critical of that hotel. You've got to do what you do. But I don't know of many...
 many hotels that could do that if there was no demand for their space i would like to see this move forward very quickly not without consideration for the parking question and i know that that has probably been a question from the start but you know if this was in the city's plan for this park to have a building there i don't care what you put there there's going to be a need for parking
 And so this is not unique just because it's a hotel. I think any viable business that you built there that would be more than two or three stories, parking is going to be an issue that would have to be addressed. So I would like to see this move forward, and I appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you, David. Okay. Who else? Okay, I'm going to bring back to the count. Yes, go. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry, I thought somebody else back there was...
 Getting up ahead of me. Kyle Smith, Ward 4. There are a couple of things that I love about the way the city operates. We plan for the future and we use data that's available to us to make good plans for the future.
 And last time I brought some data, Mr. Whitaker rightly pointed out that correlation and causation are distinct in the data. But today I have something that's a little more survey based for you. So I hope that you'll take point. A 2020 survey showed that 55 percent of millennials make an active effort to drive less. And that's up from 45 percent a decade ago.
 53% of them are interested in car share services. It's not something we have available here, but more than half of millennials are interested in sharing a vehicle with somebody else so that they can still get around and leave fewer cars on our roads. Now, if you look at the comments tonight, whether it's from out here,
 or the questions you've all all have had up there you may notice a distinct generational divide between the folks who are worried about parking and the folks who are looking at building a great downtown where they can go and experience something besides parking i hope that we're going to build for the future and those and look at the people that are going to be paying for this in the future
 Nobody should be shocked that we're talking about a hotel. There were buildings on both ends in the schematics from day one, the very first time that we ever looked at a drawing from the landscape design consultants. There were buildings on there of substantially the same footprint and substantially the same height, and their renderings were substantially the same aesthetic design as what we see tonight.
 And what we see tonight is not final. You'll get more opportunities to nitpick the design later. But nobody should be surprised because this was there every step of the way. And the great thing about our meetings, they're all on video. I think if you went back and looked, you'd find we were talking about hotels during some of it. It was never defined, but that, when we talk about stage facilities for the public,
 the plaza and the support that that will need. I mean, a hotel was a natural fit. I know I talked about it.
 So you've got a 2017 parking plan that Justin mentioned. It's available on the website. It's got great maps. It's got pictures. It's got zones of downtown and how many vacant spots were available by times of the day. It was super detailed and it covered a nice broad area of downtown. That is data you can use and I hope you will trust our engineers and our parking staff.
 One of the hazards of data in a study like that is you can redesign the parameters of the study and get pretty much any result that you want out of it. So I hope when the other study comes forward that you'll look closely at the methodology they used and see if it really addresses the details of the whole downtown, because it is one, people park in one area and go back and forth.
 We got rid of parking minimums in the city because the idea is that if you trust the market and trust developers, they're going to know their product better than we will. And they're going to make decisions that are going to be financially feasible. They're not going to go build something that's going to bankrupt itself because of lack of parking.
 I hope that we'll do that here, that we'll trust them to make the decision. I know valet sounds newfangled and different and a little unusual. It may not, you may not be the market for this hotel if you don't want to use valet, but somebody will. It's gonna work. Looking at my time, I will skip that last idea and say look around at the folks that you have up there.
 It would be real easy to table this looking for a majority or looking for a unanimous consent. You don't need eight. You just need five and that's four to count the mayor. Mayor Redekopal Thank you. Mayor Redekopal Thank you. All right. Anybody else? Mayor Jordan Yes, Mayor Jordan and Council. I've heard some business owners and I've heard some of the comments tonight. And one of the things that
 There are several things that stick out. Someone mentioned that there's going to be, I believe, another hotel built and that that could be competition. But when we think about Weddington, there are like four or five hotels right there. And I don't think any of those hotels have closed. So I don't think the competition is a problem.
 I also don't see this being a real threat. I do take into consideration the parking issue, and that is an issue. But as far as Fayetteville's economic development, as we think about Bentonville and going north, I just feel like, you know, that we, with consideration of the parking issues, I really think that this is something that I'm looking forward to. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 I do think that we've heard from some business owners, and I do think that every comment is legitimate. But when I think about this, I don't think that this poses a real threat to Fayetteville's well-being. I think it's going to contribute to the quality of life.
 Yes, come on up. Cynthia Curritallo, North Barrington Park, I'm going to be really short here. I've listened to all the various comments. And my point is that hotels are a business and this is obviously an opportunity.
 to capitalize on what is going to be very beautiful, what we've had in mind in developing the arts corridor. The question I have is, will the hotel be adding value to that vision, or is it simply going to be using the opportunity of the views and the ambience to enhance the business, which is
 how hotels capitalize on things, you know, and
 Yeah, I have some concerns about that, about all the various details that you've heard about, you know, how businesses and hotels can impact cities. You can look at it historically, you know, and look at other cities, other areas that have had hotels built around parks, like Rittenhouse Square in Philadelphia and a number of other places. It has not really enhanced the original vision of that...
 corridor or park or area, it's taken from it. And so those are simple questions that I think that we need to ask ourselves. And it's not about the black hole of that space that was in the original design. It's like how is it going to serve or add value to our community and what we hope to have in the arts corridor. So thank you. Thank you. All right. Anybody else?
 I'm going to bring it back to the county. Yes. I'm hoping to start. Yeah, I'm going to bring it back to the county. Go ahead, Simon. First, I'd like to thank everybody for coming out and speaking on this from a wide range of viewpoints. I'd also really like to thank Boat Counts for bringing up the short-term rentals.
 We're having an issue with short-term rentals just kind of spreading across town because people have a demand for it. And by bringing more hotels where actually people want, I think that some of that pressure in those neighborhoods would be alleviated. So I appreciate bringing that up. I think there's also a concern that people don't go downtown for a whole night.
 There isn't really too many places to go down there. It's like if you had a shoe store and you didn't sell size 10s and you ask why don't you sell size 10s and it's like, well, we don't have them in stock because nobody has size 10. Well, guess what? Like, it's going to keep being that way. If you don't provide it, people don't come. And that shouldn't be the only reason you don't ever provide it. So I think we do need more hotels.
 This will absolutely get used and maybe a second one or maybe even a third one. People want event spaces downtown in Fayetteville. There's there are entities that want to have events downtown and they're like, we can't because we know that there's there's not the hotels.
 So I hope that we can keep looking at this. This may be a great thing. I know the demands there. On the parking, I absolutely agree that you should have a plan for parking. We've had a plan before. There are some things that were in there that I don't think we've implemented. Hopefully we start looking at that. Hopefully we look at the next plan. I think it's important that you think about parking, but I will preface,
 whatever parking study we have, is at some point there's going to be friction. So if you say we need enough parking so that the Walton Arts Center can be sold out and Theater Square can be sold out and everybody that wants to come and look at the Christmas lights that we're about to do can immediately park,
 Well, that's the only three things you can have downtown because then the rest of it has to be parking. So there has to be a balance and hopefully we can start looking at the new plan and the old plan because there are some massive parking decks that don't get utilized. There's some massive parking lots that don't get utilized. It just takes some walking or a valet service or a shuttle service.
 There's a lot of options that I think we can do.
 to help alleviate that. But I do recognize that people are concerned about parking, businesses are concerned, that's a reasonable concern. But I think we can alleviate it without turning our entire downtown into a parking lot, which unfortunately happens to some major cities as they build. So I probably will be for this, but I agree hopefully Rob Sharp can bring some more information next time on parking, thank you.
 Someone mentioned, Mayor Jordan, a parking study. Is that parking study, has it been done yet?
 The downtown business owners are doing a parking step. Okay. Correct? Justin Clay is involved as our representative on that process. And DeAndre, it's my understanding that they are going to have a completion sometime in December. But Justin can clear that up also when he brings back to you all the data that you wanted to see. We'll bring back what we got on parking. And then Susan and Jonathan, we have our...
 I just threw you in there Jonathan just for that. We have our city parking study from 2017 that is readily available online for anyone to look at and that's where we're going to get the probably a lot of the information from for the new parking study by the downtown.
 But that has maps and everything with it. So, right. And Justin, and I'll add that Justin also keeps current counts. So even though we have this parking study that was dated X whenever it was, and it revealed certain items, then Justin's job and he does a beautiful job of it as the parking systems manager, you know, in addition to having some current counts,
 the overall downtown area then when you all are ready he can speak to some of the new technologies that will enable some of this more convenient type of parking and reservation system stuff so anyway
 Whenever you all can identify for us some more specific questions, any email would be great to me and I'll make sure and corral the staff to get to. Get you anything you want. Yeah, because I do think we have enough staff involved to have lots of information if, you know, and I could probably suggest more, but anything you'd like. So Mayor Jordan and City Council.
 i thought i heard that january starting the process in january but then someone mentioned us reconvening on this item in two weeks so what will that look like well you know of course i want you to i want to say i want you all to be comfortable but i don't know if you will always be comfortable with this particular topic but whatever information that you want we'll get it but i think wade has got some bids on
 are we let's let's go through that again okay so the construction drawings on the plaza will be complete in january right so we can receive bids so ideally we've got some stuff pinned down they can move forward so we can work the footprint of the building into those bid documents
 And keep in mind in that plaza, there is a boundary of where this hotel would kind of start. But our original boundary is still the same as it was when we first started this project. I mean, the same turf. So if, you know, this does not work, then the corridor or the plaza will still be constructed.
 So it would be helpful to see that graphically in two weeks so we can see that really, really clearly. I will get you the boundary I've been after the staff. Thank you. To be sure to define the boundary. Right. And it is in your packet, but we will have it for display. Okay. I mean, honestly, it's got a good, well, we got, it shows the boundary and you need to see that.
 Right. We chose not to go through those details tonight because we had so much to share. So anything like that, we'll be happy to pull out and highlight in another presentation. And we'll be happy to provide you any maps that you need or that boundary is because Mayor Jordan, there's one other thing. And I know that I believe someone mentioned it. I think it was Devin.
 Jobs you mentioned how that would contribute to the workforce. I think that was you so Devin Could you give us that number one more time?
 I'm so sorry, but I just want to make sure. No, it's fine. Oh, you're fine, Councilmember. I'd like to return with that in two weeks. Given they have a consultant with Windsor Autry, I would like to consult with the experts rather than drawing. I don't have those figures on me at this time, but I will return with those. Thank you so much. I think it's very important for the citizens of Fayetteville to know how that's going to contribute to
 the to our workforce. Thank you. Thank you so much. When Devon also I want you to provide how many hotels is going in the region like there's no there's two and Bentonville and I think there's one coming in and Rogers and one coming in and Springdale if I remember correct. Yes, sir. We will be ready to talk about that as well. Okay.
 So we're talking about what's on the table now, what to vote for, and then there's the suggestion that we might hold it. And here's the deal, the way I look at it. The discussion we've had this evening has allowed us to engage a conversation on all sides of the issue. We've heard from business owners. We've heard from investors.
 people who worked directly on the bond issue. I don't think anyone here wants to destroy paradise and build a parking lot per se. They're just looking for a solution of how this is all going to work. I don't think that there was a flat out demand that there be no hotel, but we've started here as discussion on how this would work.
 So, that's the reason I think that we should pause for a moment and let everyone have the opportunity to listen to all the comments that we brought forward tonight and come up with operational solutions so it all can work together. So, if indeed we move forward.
 That's fine, but I really, I think that the way I'm looking at this is I would, I want to hear everyone else, but I would prefer to slow down a few weeks and get everyone more on the same page. Okay. I saw something. Okay. Yes, son. Sure, yes. Yes.
 I do want to thank everybody for coming out tonight. I didn't hear anybody from Fayetteville Arts Council, so I just want to real briefly touch on that. That was forwarded during the meeting I saw from Joanna Bell, so definitely take a look at that, council members.
 But I was in that meeting when Rob came to present to us and the Fayetteville Arts Council has a really interest in seeing a hotel. We like this hotel. We saw we had a lengthy discussion about it in our meeting.
 In order for the creative economy to grow we have to have the visitors to come and stay and then Have a place for them to land and be right there on the ramble So we're very excited about it and they were very interest Open to a lot of other ideas we had including concepts like an art residency and a sculptural feature where the water comes to meets the building and
 And so the Arts Council itself saw the vision and the consideration for the aesthetic quality of the way that the aesthetics of the building have been taken into consideration because of the city's recommendation and requirement to do so with the letter of intent.
 and bring it all together. And that is sort of like a bookend. And so anyways, for the Arts Council, definitely look for that letter. I wrote down just a few little,
 comments that I just wanted to read really quickly. We do have public transportation. I thought I heard a cons member say we didn't. We have public transportation. We could do better. And I heard somebody say a trolley and maybe it's trolley time. So that would be awesome. But everywhere I go, I ballet and I just get off and I don't want to look at my car ever again. I don't want to drive my car when I go on vacation. I just want to like enjoy the space.
 so I guess I'm on the other side of the generational gap but anyways so shuttles are really nice and helpful for those kinds of things
 One question I did write down because somebody did bring that up is five dollars a day for city parking enough We're gonna compete so I don't know that's a just in question so Has the CCC been contacted to give input and I thought they had we had a lot of public input Sessions and they're part of a stakeholder group. So I'm sad to hear that comment that hurts my feelings But I really do I really do hope we can kind of have some more conversation and more connection and
 And absolutely, Kevin, thank you so much. Hotel will greatly benefit all businesses. And Bo, I mean, I can't imagine this is something that we don't need. And as I said, that the Arts Council sent a letter and support. And then the last thing, which we haven't touched on. Kevin Larkin Did you say they sent a letter of support? Susan Hennig Support. And so the KITS memo, which we haven't touched on at all,
 regarding the letter of intention letter of LOI and so we haven't talked about that at all so we definitely need some more time there's so much to consider um but I don't know if y'all have had time to look at that but there's a lot and just in kids memo so that's all I've got for now okay
 I'd just like to add a couple of things here. You know, everybody's brought up some really, really outstanding points and I appreciate everything, everyone that came out and spoke in favor and, you know, and not necessarily in opposition but maybe in hesitation of this project. And I respect all my fellow council members, their comments have been very valuable to me as well.
 But I'd like to, what I'm thinking about for this area is, and I'm going to talk about something that was mentioned about the people that go to Dixon Street, I say Dixon Street, the entertainment district, are not going there to spend the night. They're going there to, they're going to go have their fun and then they're going to go back somewhere else. And Sloan brought up the fact that there is no place for them to spend the night unless
 in a ditch or something, I guess. But there's no place for that right now. And so, you know, and I'm thinking about, you know, I'm thinking about young people being in our entertainment district. And you know, they go back to their dorms and their whatever. But I'm also thinking about a point where maybe we.
 up the ante as a community and we provide things that will bring people to our area that are going to spend the night, that are going to not just
 to go drink beer and then leave. They're going to go have a nice meal. They're going to go to spend money at a theater. They're going to spend money at the farmer's market. They're going to go to an event, and they're going to invest in our creative economy. Mary Jo Bangoran, I'm going to buy art, a lot of art. And buy a lot of art because we're going to have that. And, you know, I just think it could be a really nice, you know, feature to have. And we don't want to lose business and opportunities
 two places farther north. And you know, I want to listen to our community and have it all come together and be as cohesive as possible. And that's one thing I like about Fayetteville, but it's also one thing that's a challenge about Fayetteville. Everyone comes out, we all, we let everyone have their say and we try to listen and balance it out as best we can. And we don't always make everyone happy.
 We do try to hear and listen to everyone. Sometimes that slows the process down substantially. And so I do think that there's a lot of opportunity for a really nice feature here that will add to the park and the plaza and not take away from it.
 put people there that will, you know, people that go to the plaza can have, they can go maybe, you know, there's going to be restrooms, there's going to be a stage, there's going to be things like that, some nice features there. I would feel much safer if I were going to a place like this park area at night if I knew there were people kind of keeping an eye on it. And I love the fact that the hotel is centered.
 with rooms facing the street. I like the fact that there is going to be right on this park, there's going to be a business that's going to have a lobby that's open 24-7. So if there is a problem, you know, there'll be someone there that might be able to see it and help with it. Let me see what else we mentioned here. As far as the getting one proposal
 That's, you know, we put this out for, we made it available for anyone to look at through the channels that people look at, companies look at for city business. I don't know, I'm not saying this right, but it's out there. It's out there if someone wants to apply for it.
 And I would just like to say that there are other projects that are not as glamorous as a hotel that we used to get plenty of bids on. Street projects, sewer projects. We don't get the bids that we used to because people are...
 Sometimes busy companies are busy with other jobs now and used to they would go City city work is is easy to get and it always pays and they're busy with other projects now So the idea that we only got one bid or one proposal is not that it's not that disturbing to me I was a little concerned about it at first But after we looked at it
 It did not, you know, I thought it was a good proposal. So that's one reason I don't think that's the nefarious thing that it sounds like. So look through here if there's anything else I wanted to hit in this one. No, I think that's pretty much it for me right now. Thank you. Okay, Teresa, go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. I really do want to talk a little bit about Kitts MUMO.
 Really say we have to take this very seriously. I don't want this to be rushed despite Some deadlines the city has kind of put forward to us
 You know, if we need to really have a lot more information, a lot more consideration, we need to expand the discussion, not just the discussion tonight. I think there'll be a lot more public interest once it's on the TV or the newspapers report our conversations tonight. But we've really got one shot at this. Last time we did the letter of intent, we were told it was a letter of intent, it wasn't a binding contract.
 But once we approved that, there was no going back. There were no other parking lots considered whatsoever. The city spent money to do drilling and to figure out the seismic underpinnings of that area. And so once we vote on this, and especially with what Kit has outlined,
 That's it. It is a done deal. We are out of, really, control of a public space. And so we need to be very conscientious of that and know that as we go into it.
 And I think it's very important also that the public needs to understand how their funds are being used. That demonstration of how this is really going to benefit the public, not just an estimate of economic development, because things can go belly up, but right on the front end, how is the public going to be entertained? How are they going to really benefit from this? How is it not going to be a divider?
 How is it really going to be something cohesive and build upon each other? So those are the things that I'm very concerned about that I hope we'll hear more about next week.
 or in two weeks rather, and maybe even longer. I do not want to rush this whatsoever. I really want to make sure that we have all the information that we need and we have all the public engagement from various sectors to really make a unified decision on this. Thank you.
 i just want to echo what teresa said and also i want to go on record and say i'm very much in support of this project but i also want to go on record saying as a millennial i am concerned about parking so i think as soon as we get that taken care of i will be very excited to vote yes on this thank you i'd like to add something else on this as well since kit's memo was brought up and i'm not really sure i don't remember how was that six pages kit
 I'm sorry, what did you say? Was your memo six, what you sent us today, was that six pages? Was it three pages, four pages? Well unfortunately I sent out three memos. Okay, maybe that's why. And the last one unfortunately was when I was looking at the contract for something that you might be concerned about. And I think that might have been at least five pages and it was six, I apologize.
 We are always getting slammed at the last minute with emails like we're going to vote on this tonight. I know Kit's really busy with a lot of things there, but as I was reading through these things I was losing track of how many memos I was getting. Sorry Kit, but I know you're trying to be really thorough and I really appreciate that. But one thing we did hire an attorney to help us craft.
 this contract and you know because Kip is super busy with a lot of things and I do value his opinion but we hired someone who specializes in negotiations and that sort of thing and I is she about is Vicki Bronson available to kind of explain the letter of intent because it's my understanding when I'm reading when I'm looking at the letter of intent.
 I'm thinking there's all these, if it doesn't pan out,
 We don't do it basically. Vicki is here and if you'd like to go ahead and hear from her if you have specific questions or she can simply make a comment and get started but she's on zoom. I would like to hear her definition of the letter of intent and what it means for us and is it you know because do we just have the one shot and once we sign it it's just all out of our hands and okay that's what I'd like to know. Vicki were you able to hear that question?
 Yes, yes, thank you. No, the letter of intent is intended to be a binding document, but there are a lot of conditions to it. And there are several places where additional city council approval is required, particularly when the final building design plans and specifications are presented. The city council has to approve that.
 And so, whatever particular uses they want to put in the space as far as bars, restaurants, whatever type of uses they want, that has to be approved by the city. Even though there are broad categories of the types of businesses that are allowed within that district, the final plans have to be approved by the city.
 The developer has committed to completing the project in substantial conformance to the drawings that you see. And any significant deviation from that has to be approved by the city council. So there are steps along the way that the city council has additional input. And that's where we're going to be looking at the design of the project. And that's where we're going to be looking at the design of
 But if the developer meets all of those conditions, then yes, the city, it's meant to be binding. And likewise, it's meant to be binding on the developer. And the city council put an amendment on the letter of intent? Certainly. And I would just say that there are conditions
 in this letter of intent, but almost all of those conditions, which could be an escape clause, are for the developer. When the city, if the city would approve this letter of intent, it already has approved the design, size, height, location of the building.
 Because it says the building will substantially comply with the designs that have been submitted So if they submit something to you that looks like that, it must be approved You don't have a way to not approve it. You must approve it now the use units. It's confusing and that in that paragraph about does the city have any authority to say no you can't do this and
 or not and so that needs to be clarified i would like to have it where obviously the city council continues to have the power to decide the kind of uses that you want to be done in this building obviously it's stuff that you that mr rendell will need to have too but i think i'm trying to preserve the city council's authority here to be able to still make decisions and that's why i said
 the way it is now if you approve it right now it really is the major decisions have been decided it's going to be decided where the land is even though it's going to be surveyed it's going to be decided by a third party appraiser what the value is whether you for the land whether you like it or not it's already been decided so the major decisions have been decided and when it comes to use units that just needs to be
 Tightened up so it's clear that the City Council has the authority on that And so I wanted to ask Vicki if she had any further comments since Sarah had called on her with respect to use units particularly or anything else that you've been listening to certainly it would be
 And so, it's easy to add specific use limitations if there are specific uses. And, you know, obviously the developer has to agree to these limitations or there is no agreement. But if there's particular uses that the city council really wants to see in the document or really wants to have prohibited in the document, then that can be drafted and the parties can discuss that
 Any other questions for Vicki while she's here? No, I don't think I have any other questions, but one of the things that was brought up is, like, okay, there are certain zones around our city that allow certain things by right. And I believe some of the things that we've talked about tonight, like the height of the building and stuff, is that already zoned to allow a maximum seven-story building, Jonathan?
 Yes, the property's main street center zoning district allows for a seven-story building. Well, keep in mind this is city property that you control.
 And you don't have to agree to go up to the highest level. And secondly, this is going to be a PZD. And a PZD controls its own height level. It's not the underlying other zoning before the PZD. So this city council still has the authority, if you want to, to limit the height of the building. It doesn't have to be seven stories. You can make it taller or shorter.
 It's your property. You could even rezone it if you wanted to, but you wouldn't have to because you can control it in the contract. So there's not a use by right of seven stories on your property. Now Mr. Rendell owns property adjacent to this on the south side of the parking deck, and if his land is zoned for seven stories, he could build the seven stories there, but your property you control. Okay.
 Well, one of the things you brought up, Kit, is that we're talking about a PZD. And that's really interesting to me because that's kind of, I mean, that does take a lot of the...
 a lot of things that we might be concerned about and says this is exactly pretty much what we're going to do right here. And it takes it, you know, it makes it a little more clear for us and the public to look into, I think. So thank you very much, Kit. And thank you, Vicki. I appreciate that. You're welcome. Go ahead. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 i'm going to make quite a few comments and rob get your pencil out a couple of these are questions you had asked about questions that we might have and staff as well so my preface is i'm in favor of a a hotel i think a hotel downtown makes a lot of sense rob for you with seven stories and um for staff with landscape architect i'd like to see a shadow study
 Shadow study on the shadow the building will cast on the city park Rob in representing the the developer who we've talked about hotel spaces But 20 spaces are being lost for the existing businesses to the south Where mr. Rendell is the landlord? I'd like you to calculate
 I mean, no one's gonna valet park to eat pancakes at Prelude, even though it's my favorite place, and I would be tempted to do that, but pancakes are just not worth valet. On your pathway between the hotel and Mr. Rendell's existing businesses, I'd like to see a dimension site plan showing a delivery tractor trailer in there. I have concerns about the head-end parking that's proposed and vehicle circulation literally being trapped.
 there's already delivery trucks appropriately for the restaurants to the south. And now when we add retail and a couple more restaurants, that'll only increase it further. For me, I would wanna hear from you Rob, the next time whether Windsor Autry is gonna actually be the hotel manager or they're gonna broker a deal with another hotel operator and they're just the consultant to Mr. Rendell. There's...
 lot of potential uses listed and I'm not interested in waiting for the PZD I mean that's it's just way too much the comment I'll make to you is that mr. Rendell could
 build the building and say the only thing that works is an insurance company and so I'm going to have a seven-story office building there and in fact I don't even need to park that so that's what I'm going to do so I would really like to see the the legitimate viable uses be thought through even with some potential square footages parking it is going to boil down to the letter of intent and parking
 One of the things that we didn't address tonight is the movement of the trail by the placement of the building. And I'm not sure that I'm interested in paying for the movement of the trail or for the land for that trail to reside on. If this is some form of partnership and the building's placement causes me to lose my trail, I would like to see that financial arrangement discussed.
 for staff, our landscape architect. If we're looking at a building footprint that's actually proposed, even though not solidified and it's not set in stone, I would like to see two things. One, what is this draft?
 Park Plaza looking like. A presentation to council that's just that initial schematic, not the drawings that have been used to date. Show me how it interfaces with the footprint as proposed for the building. Part of the issue with the letter of intent is giving control of outdoor amplified sound to the hotel. The city should control that.
 I don't want to hear Frank Sinatra coming out of the hotel when we've got an event planned. And so the letter of intent should identify that we control the sound, we control the amplification, we control the placement of the speakers. And regarding weddings, who's got a rental rate proposed for the hotel?
 to have outdoor dining in the park or to set up a wedding tent in the park i would like to see some discussion on those types of things i was hoping that the hotel would actually propose on their own land some outdoor dining that would then interface with the open space of the park and one might bleed over into the other and it would be easier for those to be interchanged and shared but i'm seeing pretty much a traditional
 industrial looking building placed in a park. And so anything outside the shell of that building appears to me to be pretty much city land. So I need to see that defined for me. We've talked about the appraisal causes me concerns because appraisers are going to look at comparable sales that have already taken place in the past. No one in Fayetteville has bought a piece of land
 in the Ramble, in this plaza, in the most desirable location, perhaps in northwest Arkansas, despite what people say about Bentonville. Good luck getting to downtown Bentonville in about three or four years and getting into one of the parking structures that they're building there.
 Speaking of parking structures, the valet parking that we were told about for the hotel being built is valeted, but it's a valet across the street to a parking structure that's being built. You could literally walk to your car faster than the valet could find your car if you knew where it was. So I'm not sure that that's particularly comparable. Okay.
 I would like to see something addressed about mandatory off-site employee parking. There's going to be retail employees, restaurant employees. I would like to see when we discuss the parking, the locations for required employee parking off-site from the hotel. I'm trying to help you and work with you because parking is going to be necessary.
 that as well as the language of the letter of intent are gonna be the two major hurdles to overcome. And I think that they can be overcome. I think we can get there. I think the hotels are brilliant use.
 The appearance of the hotel, Rob's done a good job. You can't outperform your client. Your client wants Building A, you give them Building A. I mean, it's a replica of an industrial building in Denver that became the Ramble Hotel in Denver. And it's a replica of that hotel, and there's nothing wrong with that. It's just a good reuse of an industrial building. And so if I look at the Walton Arts Center, if I look at Theater Squared, if I look at the rest of Dixon Street, I look at George's,
 is an industrial building the best fit? I'm not qualified to make that judgment. I'm just qualified to say it's an industrial building by design. Google the Ramble Hotel Denver and you'll see that we're mimicking their colors. We're just a few stories taller and Rob has done a masterful job with the assignment that he was given. Finally, I would like someone to answer for me why
 Who am I dancing with who is this letter of intent with who am I going to be building with? Mr. Rendell has listed his property for sale with a commercial real estate firm. That's very credible very qualified It's posted online He was asking for bids as of the month of August and I want to know why I'm talking about doing a deal with someone And they're listing their property to the south for sale
 citing and referencing this hotel site and if you have trouble finding the link to the listing contact staff and staff will give you the link to it would be my answer on that that's disconcerting to me to not have that addressed and not have that answer at this point would I like to see more parking sure I would
 The last hotel I stayed in with valet parking allowed you to self-park, so I always talk to the valets everywhere I go. They make a killing on their self-parking because it's even more expensive than their valet. In closing, for me, the letter of intent is disconcerting given Kit's memos, and he's the only city attorney that I have.
 And I read this having looked at letters of intent and I read it as a contract and an agreement and I'm not ready to sign that agreement or vote for that agreement. That's disconcerting to me. I don't think that we have to be rude to Mr. Rendell. I don't think we have to be putting up barriers. I'm not interested in him going away, but I'm not interested in
 in the agreement that's laid out in the letter of intent as I read it today is unacceptable to me. Can we get there? Oh, I absolutely think that we can if Mr. Rendell wants to get there. I absolutely believe we can get there. But that's not a deal that's good for the citizens of Fayetteville. That's not a deal that's good for me as a resident of Fayetteville. And that's not a deal that I would be excited about telling any business person on Brand Boulevard.
 for their grandchildren that they should be excited about. So I think if we tighten up the uses, I think if we look at the interface between the plaza and the building, so it's clear that the building doesn't own our park, our park doesn't own the building, and we define who shares that space where those two come together, you can begin to get me one step excited
 about voting yes. If you can show me how we're going to park employees, you can give me two steps closer. If you can show me how we're going to park patrons to the hotel on a rainy night when 300 people at a banquet in addition to the hotel guests all leave the banquet at the same time in the dark on a raining January night in Fayetteville to get their valet cars delivered to them and
 and you can show me how that can work, then you'll have me three steps excited for voting yes for this project. And other than that, Mr. Mayor, I have no concerns about this project whatsoever at all. And Mayor, I do have Brian Rendell is online and he is able to speak to the question that Mr. Whitaker brought up regarding the advertisement. Brian, if you'd like to go ahead and speak to that.
 rather than delay, you're there to speak to it. No, do not delay. And while I wait, forgive me, I failed to thank staff for your months and months of work on this. Thank you. Absolutely. Brian, you want to go ahead and explain the sequence? Yes, yes. Let me jump in here. First of all, thank you guys for taking a look at everything tonight and taking a look at our proposal.
 And, you know, I'm excited about bringing a hotel to downtown. I think we can get through some of the questions you guys have on the LOI. We tried our best in the LOI to just nail everything down so there's not a bait and switch. This is what we're going to build. If we do what we said we're going to do, then we'd like for that to be binding. So before we go out spending millions of dollars.
 And so I think we can get there. I think the parking is something. Obviously, Rob said earlier, if you're spending $50 million, you've got to make sure you have it worked out. You're not planning on parking cars three-quarters of a mile away and making all your customers mad. We're not planning on doing that. So we have a plan to valet people outside of this hot box area. Is it as close as I want it to be? No. But I think we have a plan that will work.
 We're still looking for better options, closer options. And we've been real clear about that. And so, you know, ideally we would be within a quarter of a mile. So we absolutely are not leaving any stone unturned until we get that figured out because we want to have a great hotel for downtown. We want people to have a great experience.
 And we want to be the greatest hotel in the state of Arkansas and be a great amenity for the city. But to answer Mr. Whitaker's question about me having it for sale, it is not for sale. I have no interest in selling it.
 That was more or less an exercise to find out what the value was. And you can go in and talk to the guys there, Moses Tucker. They actually came to me and said, hey, if you want to know what your building's worth, we can put it out on Capital Markets. You'll find out real quickly what it's worth. I heard from them, had no interest, really never had any interest in selling it. I want to build a hotel downtown Fayetteville. I'm a Fayetteville resident. I love Fayetteville. My office is right across the street from the hotel. I love Fayetteville.
 And that's where, that's what I plan to do. And I'm, as a lot of people talk about building a hotel in Fayetteville, and I always kind of use the idea, as a lot of people talk about building hotels, a lot of people talk about making movies. I made a movie back in 2016. I don't know if anybody saw it greater. But I plan to build a hotel and bring a hotel to Fayetteville also. If you guys want a hotel, if anybody would not want a beautiful hotel in downtown Fayetteville,
 They let me know, but I'd love to build one and bring a great hotel to Fayetteville. Have any questions for Mr. Rendell? Sure. Mr. Rendell, this is Mike again. Obviously, I commend you for wanting to pay a fair price for the city land that you would purchase. Do you see how I might be concerned that a traditional appraisal,
 might not, because they're based on prior sales, might not be reflective of the potential value of this site that adjoins your land? Or do you think I'm off base with that concern? Yeah, I totally understand. I think that's a legitimate concern. And it's always hard when you're getting appraisals because you're always basing it on comps and recent comps and,
 So, but I don't know a better way to do it. And so that's just the way, it's like, how do we, how are we going to know we're going to be fair with each other? And it's the fairest way to do it is to have one appraisal or two appraisals or, you know, I mean, if you guys have suggestions, I just,
 trying to figure out is there another fairer way to determine the value for something than appraisals. I don't know it. Marietta Robinson T. Councilmember Whitaker and Brian, Wade and I have talked about this, and Wade had a few comments about how we might go about that. Brian Whitaker Well, the appraisal we had done in 2019 takes into account improvements, and this specific project was listed.
 as some criteria in evaluating the value. So when we move forward with appraisal or selecting an appraisal firm, we would make sure that that criteria is taken into account. And we talked about going through our regular RFQ process for selecting an appraiser, one that's got the experience with these types of projects.
 Thank you, Wade. So what he's saying then is that the appraisal is going to be based as if the building's already built. We'll take in the case. Excuse me, the plaza. So, okay. You know, one of the things, I can't help but think about this, you know, and Mike brought up the look of the building as being an industrial building. And I would...
 Ask anyone who has lived in Fayetteville for a long period of time to remember what Dixon Street used to look like. And where the, Mark's not here right now, but where the Walton, there you are.
 Where the Walton Arts Center is, I believe there was an industrial laundry there at one point in time. That's right. That's correct. And there were all sorts of things on Dixon Street at one point in time. And it's been through lots of transformation. So I don't think that just the fact that this is an industrial looking building, you know,
 I don't think that that's the biggest issue for me. I mean, I don't really worry about it because I remember what things used to look like there. And actually, I kind of regret that we don't have some of the buildings that we used to have because I think it would be really neat to build onto and stuff like that. So that was just my two cents on the industrial building part. And I think we can work through if we need one, if we need three independent appraisals, we can get that.
 And that should give us plenty to work with there. If we want to go through the RFQ process, we can do that as well. So the appraisal part, I think, we can work through it and make it be something that is comfortable and grounding and give us a satisfactory number as a council. We have to do that on other properties that we work with.
 Oh, I do have a question about the movement of the trail. Okay, we're good. The movement of the trail, I believe, wasn't that when we outlined these buildings, these shadow buildings that were going to be there, wasn't the movement of the trail discussed at some point in time? No.
 Yes, it has been. I'm not sure if, Wade, are you prepared or should we bring that back? Because I know Matt Mihaljevic has been involved in that too. So the Greenway will now go through the center of the plaza. And so we will have what we're talking about as far as the trail next to the Rindell property would be like a bypass trail in event.
 there's an event in the plaza. Okay. Okay. Yeah. And so currently it would go just to the north of Rheindel's businesses down there. Okay. All right. Thank you, Wade. That's it. No, there's more. Yeah, there's more. No. I think this is a question for Rob Sharp.
 Okay, several hours ago you said that you didn't know if we needed a table for two weeks or more because you wanted to hear public comment. Do you have a better assessment of if two weeks would work for you? What was the material deadline if the meeting is in two weeks?
 I'm sorry for us to have the packet prepared to meet in two weeks that would be next week so it probably would not be prepared and ready in two weeks. So there are I mean there are things that we could put in the packet that are relatively easy to do there are some things that I could bring to the meeting that maybe take a full two weeks. I would like to keep up the pace and meet again in two weeks
 As we mentioned, the RFP was issued more than a year ago, so we've been putting a lot of time in. And there certainly is the hint of a deadline in the January bid of the plaza. But I'm not so concerned about that particular deadline as I am of just keeping up the pace of the conversation and not killing the project with delay. Okay.
 But things like shadow studies and turning radiuses for delivery vehicles are easy for us to do. In terms of the appraisal, I think we've got a real, you know, the basic issue with the appraisal is that this is beachfront property and the beach isn't built yet.
 It's easy to explain to the appraiser that we want the value of this plan Assuming the city spends all the money on doing that that improvement and that that the value of this any improvement will be in fact Reflected in the value of the land and that's a very simple thing to explain to the appraiser and it's so it's I don't I'm I'm not worried about that. I am I am I
 glad that we're bringing you a project where we're not asking for a handout we're offering to pay you full market value for probably the most expensive piece of land in northwest arkansas so you know normally i think there's when anyone says public private partnership somebody's looking for some kind of handout we're not in that position we're in the position of saying you know let's let's hire a third party appraisal let's get the number and then that it may be so high that it kills the deal we'll know we'll know after that happens but it's it's so my short answer is
 would like to be back here in two weeks with a lot more information. I can probably also tell you that whether it's two weeks or four weeks, I will not be able to demonstrate that 300 people leaving a banquet room on a rainy night looking for their car in five minutes will be satisfied. And it may be, you know, I'll talk to Windsor-Ocher about it, maybe maybe banqueting facilities are out at this location. I don't know, I don't know what the answer is. Or maybe, maybe
 Maybe it's only banquets for very hardy individuals. But we will, and the other thing is, you know, two weeks we'll have a parking plan. I guarantee you in three decades our grandchildren will be in this room talking about parking in the downtown area. I don't care about robot cars or bullet trains or flying vehicles. We'll be arguing about parking or discussing parking or looking at parking options.
 So the parking problem will not be solved in two weeks, but we'll have graphics and we'll have travel distances and we'll have more information. And we'll get, you know, we've, like I said, we've been working on this for a year. Eleven months of that has been on parking. So we'll have some parking information for you.
 And in terms of the memo, I think I agree with Kit Williams and Vicki Bronson that this is an agreement with some teeth in it. And it's an agreement with some teeth in it on both sides. And we thought that was the desire of the council, that we bring something that we not be a loosey-goosey, we're kind of going to do this. You were talking about with the...
 Greg House deal that it started as kind of a well this nothing's really binding, but once you're Once you've done your geotechnical analysis and you paid your structures and years he has he had you over a barrel So we don't want the opposite situation. We don't want Brian to spend a million dollars on architecture I mean, that'd be a great thing But it's been a million dollars in architecture soils test market studies, you know appraisers and then the city you know the the
 the city council of eight months and now say, we're just kind of not interested anymore. What else you got for us? So it is a, and then as the attorney mentioned, if you want a shorter building, then you say you want a shorter building and that'll affect the land value. Like if the building's going to be stumpy, then the land's going to be worth less. If you want a tower, but I would
 i would rather not unravel all that but i think that we the staff and ryan ron will work together well to come up with what we feel is the optimum proposal and um so we'll we'll we'll talk about it again in two weeks and and we've all had a lot to think about and i really appreciate everyone's time okay i think i heard we're ready for table for two weeks um so i moved to table this for two weeks and then also independent of that i hope we have a small break after second
 We'll get you a small break. I can assure you. We have a motion to second the table for two weeks. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay. We'll pick up at number two when we're getting there.
 Let's go ahead and get started. Okay. Number two, an ordinance to amend 73.05, riding on sidewalks of the federal city code to align with state law regarding the rights and duties of a person operating a bicycle in a crosswalk. Kit. Okay.
 whereas in 2021 the arkansas general assembly enacted act 1067 which extends the rights protections and duties of pedestrians and crosswalks to persons lawfully riding bicycles and whereas section 7305 of the fable city code should be amended to align with state law regarding the safe operation of bicycles in crosswalks now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, I hereby repeal subsection C of section 73.05, Riding on Sidewalks, and enact a new section 7305C as follows, quote, subsection C, Operation of Bicycles Upon Crosswalks. Number one.
 A person operating a bicycle upon a crosswalk shall A. Yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and B. Give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a pedestrian.
 And subsection 2, except as provided in subsection C1 of this section, a person lawfully operating a bicycle upon a crosswalk has all of the rights and duties applicable to a pedestrian using a crosswalk pursuant to section 7402 of the Fayetteville City Code and Arkansas Code Annotated Section 2751-1202.
 And Mayor, this was brought forward because we need to have our city code comply with state law. The legislature saw fit to give persons riding a bicycle almost the same rights as a pedestrian walking across a crosswalk. You have to give them a signal. You've got to yield to pedestrians. But apart from that, the bicyclist has the same rights as a pedestrian. So this makes our city code comply with state law.
 Okay, what questions do we have in the council on this? Okay, well let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any councilmen. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first. And those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan?
 no one on zoom has their hand raised mayor is there anyone in the chamber that like to address this on this okay well I'm gonna bring it back to the council what is the wishes of the council what discussion with the council like this is an ordinance it's on the first read moose has been rules and go to second reading second as fast
 we're moving fast down there we motion in the second to go to the second yes her yes Hertzberg yes or me yes Jones yes Indian yes yes Scroggins yes
 In Ordinance of Man, Section 7305, Riding on Sidewalks, of the Fayetteville City Code to align with state law regarding the rights and duties of a person operating a bicycle in a crosswalk. Moved to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. I make a motion and second to go to third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. An ordinance amends Section 7305, Riding on Sidewalks of the Fayetteville City Code, to align with state law regarding the rights and duties of a person operating a bicycle in a crosswalk. Any final comments from the council? Caravage, please call the roll. Bunch? Yes. Curtis?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes number three an ordinance to amend 72.0 to non-consensual police initiated towing storage and impoundment procedures to allow towing of a trailer blocking and out kit
 Whereas vehicles parked in alleys which prevent property owners from using their budding alleys for normal use are already illegal pursuant to the Fayetteville Code, but also should be subject to police-initiated non-consensual tows. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 7202A of the Fayetteville Code,
 So, A shall be as follows, quote, in addition to ticketing an illegally parked vehicle or trailer, the police department is hereby authorized to initiate a nonconsensual tow or otherwise remove a vehicle or trailer from a highway, highway right of way, street right of way, constructed alley, trail right of way, city parking lot or other city owned property or right of way not authorized for parking.
 and to have it towed to a storage facility within Fayetteville or within three miles of the city limits under the following circumstances." In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 7202 and subsection 3 to read as follows, quote, 3, when any vehicle or trailer is parked or left unattended upon a city street
 Street right-of-way constructed alley trail or trail right-of-way and subsection a Constitutes a hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic or vehicles on the street constructed alley or trail unquote this ordinance is actually needed had been needed for quite a while as you might hear because we have some people here to speak about it and
 But there has been a trailer left between a semi, like a semi-trucks trailer, a big, big trailer that has been left in a paved alley between two houses for more than a year. And that's illegal. And so it was reported and the city prosecutor filed charges.
 But the person who was charged didn't show up for court. Now, this is only a little violation It's not much you a penalty that person didn't show up for court. And so there was a warrant for failure to appear But that's not a real high priority on police. And so that warrant has not been served yet. And
 And so when I, this was brought to my attention by some individuals here that might speak later on, I looked in our code section and saw that all of our police initiated non-consensual tows did not talk about a trailer and a trailer in an alley.
 So I needed to have that amended as I have done for you to give the police the rights to do that. And one reason I just amended it here and didn't write a special ordinance for it because the current ordinance has all the due process protections that we are required to do when we remove somebody's property without their consent. So I'm certainly ready to answer any questions, and I know we have some people here that might want to speak to you. Okay. Okay.
 What questions do we have in the council? No? Alright, I guess we'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and
 Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on? There is no one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Yes. Lamar Pettis. I live at 3651 Montevallo Manor, Fayetteville.
 My wife and I own the property just to the east of this property. There's an alley in between our property, which is 106 Watson, 104, 106 is a duplex, and 114 West Watson. This actually all began in late 2020. I tried to deal with the owner of the trailer, the owner of the property at the time,
 and couldn't get anywhere. And finally got the city involved after one of my tenants called and said, hey, Mr. Pettis, he's building a fence in our yard. And my neighbor, thinking that he would
 would satisfy the concerns of my tenants, came onto my property and started building the fence. So I went down, met with him, and then I sent him a letter telling him that I was going to file a code compliance complaint with the city. And Mark assisted me in doing that, and Mike, your predecessor in office, he assisted me as well. I appreciate it. I appreciate your intervention as well.
 and the mayors and everyone else in the city. This is a, you've seen 18 wheelers. This is a trailer that you hook onto the tractor that pulls that 18 wheelers. I believe at one time, I don't know about now or not, but Mr. Spurlock, the owner that brought it in place, has converted it to a living space.
 And he has run, I think you'll find that he's run electricity from his house into the trailer. I don't know that there's any type of other plumbing in the trailer. He told me that it had been approved as a storage shed by the city of Fayetteville at
 I knew that if I brought one on my property and could ask the mayor to approve it as storage shed, he probably wouldn't have any trouble. But anyway, I was shocked when I talked to Kit about it, or Mr. Williams about it, and he told me that the city did not have authority to tow a trailer.
 And so hopefully this would be something that could be resolved. I can report that since all of this began in July, the actual property, the house, has been sold to a couple of ladies, or I believe they're ladies in the...
 Boonville, Arkansas, and they hope to clean up the house and remodel it and make a really nice home for them to come up for weekends to stay when they're up here for ball games and everything. They are now in the process. They have had to file a lawsuit.
 to attempt to get the Mr. Spurlock out of the home. And so that's all in progress. He has answered those issues, have been joined, and so I would expect a trial hearing on him having the right to possession of the house will occur probably within the next three months. That doesn't mean that he would have to move the trailer because he didn't buy the trailer, so...
 I would appreciate your passing this ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Mark Scalise, Fayetteville, Arkansas, 3268 Hearthstone Drive. I own the house next door, 116, on the other side of Lamar. This house is in the middle. We bookend him.
 So the trailer is an issue, but in my mind, an even bigger issue is, and I would encourage you to go by,
 I give you complete permission to walk on my land, to walk around and see what's going on. You have all the permission you need to walk on 116 Watson's lawn and anywhere you want to be. I'm sure Lamar will give you permission to go on his land as well. So you can get a good look. If you've ever seen a beaver build a dam, the next night you wake up and it's like, wow, where did this come from? He has brought
 So much junk and crap and just a plethora of
 trash onto this land, you will be amazed. It's like an extension of the city dump. Okay. Lamar, would you agree? Yeah. Okay. So that's a big issue. There's rodents, it's a fire hazard, it's a health hazard. The whole thing is a hazard. And then there needs to be some kind of laws and some kind of rules that can be enforced to have people that do this
 to force them to clean it up. And the alternative, since it is city property, or a right of way, it's a legal right of way, there has to be some kind of right for the city to come in and say, we're cleaning it up whether you like it or not. Okay? And hopefully,
 One or both of those can be accomplished. I just want the place cleaned up. I don't care who does it, quite frankly. But there needs to be some kind of teeth into the law to allow you to do that in spite of people's most ardent hoarding.
 perpetual whatever they are. I don't know, I'm just at a loss. So anyway, please pass this law. And we would both appreciate as with the whole neighborhood, please go by and see it. 116 Watson is right behind US Pizza. It's a show. It's like, you'll be amazed. It's a horror show. Okay, thank you. Is there anyone else? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council.
 What's the wishes of the council? What action would they like to take? Mayor, I have a question. I don't know if this is to Jonathan or Kit or Billy Bryant from Code Compliance, but does the city not have the authority right now to go and have Code Compliance clean up the right-of-way or require the right-of-way? Yes, we certainly have that right, but I think that they were waiting to get the trailer out of the way.
 to be able to access the trash. And Susan, I know you've been working on this too. And Jonathan and public works. So Jonathan's prepared to speak to it.
 Certainly, I'm happy to. Thank you for the question. This issue seems like it's at the confluence of a lot of complicated factors, many of which Mr. Williams outlined. Some of it is that code compliance doesn't generally touch the right-of-way, and that's kind of where that complication comes in. They've been working with the property owner regarding all the trash on that private property, which has the complications regarding the property owners changing. Warrants issued for arrest for a land or property owner that lives in Hope or Clinton, I forget where at this point.
 But all that said, this would kick off a series of actions that would take care of it.
 depending how the council decides to approve this item, whether it has an emergency clause or not, that's for you all to determine if that's merited. Staff would tomorrow issue a series of letters to the adjoining property owners, obviously targeting one piece of property in particular, advising them that there would be a set series of days until the city was gonna come in and begin clearing the alleyway and removing the trailer. So there is definitely a series of actions that would be triggered by this.
 Just a follow-up question, since this has kind of brought this to a head that code compliance doesn't usually go in the right-of-ways, are you expanding that duty or have you considered about how this would work in a future situation without the impediment of a trailer or something like that? We do, under ordinance, have the authority to maintain and keep our right-of-way free of obstructions.
 There was a building safety concern about it being used as housing and inspector visited it. There was no indication, at least at that time that it was used as housing and over time additional items have accumulated there. While staff was focused on the property itself. Not to make excuses, but I think this was the result of several. The The
 different varying ordinances and different organizations or parts of the city working over different parts of those ordinances and has actually acted as a good experience for us to better coordinate those in the future. For instance, in this one COADS is working the property. Transportation may be working removing the trailer with the police department and then transportation and public works coordinating on trash removal if it cannot be worked out with the property owner. Thank you, Jonathan. Thank you.
 any other questions i have a real quick one here so since this has changed hands if the city goes in and does some cleanup does it not pass the cost of that on to the owner and is that not going to be passed on to the new owner or is it passed on to the guy that ran off
 As our ordinances are currently written, we do not have the authority to put a lien on a property for work like this. That typically occurs on private property if we have to bring in one of our city contractors to clean just as we would if somebody had to mow them. The city is clearing out the right of way as they would if it was obstructed by an abandoned vehicle that needed to be towed. So it's just on the city then, the cost? It doesn't go to the, okay. I think we'll have to.
 We'll take care of it. So. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Erdsberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. And your order to amend section 7202 non-consensual police initiated towing storage and impoundment procedures to allow towing of a trailer blocking an alley. I move you suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I move the motion to second to go to the third and final reading.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. In Ordinance Amendment Section 7202, non-consensual police initiated towing, storage, and impoundment procedures to allow towing of a trailer blocking an alley. Any final comments from the Council?
 Sorry, I have one. If we want to add an emergency clause, is that a separate motion, or do we add it to the motion on the floor? Well, I didn't have one drafted up partly because this thing has been hanging fire for so long. That's why I thought it sounded almost silly to put an emergency clause on something that...
 has been in the works for months. They've just been held up. So anything we can do maybe to get it moving forward. If it's not needed, then okay. Council Member Turgot, I think when Jonathan commented, if you all pass this, we'll start communication tomorrow. Yes, we will. Yeah. Okay. Any other final comments? I have one. No. Well, you're welcome, Mark.
 That's all right. Very nice. You're welcome. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Heard? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Hardy? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Okay. All right. Bye, y'all. All right. Number four.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-035 located at 6074 West Weddington Drive in Ward 4 for approximately 2.43 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF4 residential single family four units per acre kit.
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RSF4, Residential Single-Family, 4 units per acre. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This particular property is in West Fayetteville. It's located in Ward 4. It includes about two and a half acres just shy of that really of agriculturally zoned property on the north side of Windington about a quarter mile east of Double Springs Road. As you can see in the aerial image here, it is currently undeveloped and is topographically characterized as a level site.
 Just as a bit of a reminder as far as location goes, there was an adjacent property considered two meetings ago that was rezoning a non-conforming property from RA to RSF4. What the council is considering tonight is to rezone some surrounding property that was submitted under a separate request now to RSF4.
 When it comes to land use compatibility, staff had some mixed findings, as you can probably see suggested by the zoning map here. To the south and east of the property, there's a mixture of allowances, including some low-density residential to the immediate east, allowances for attached residential to the south and southeast.
 This is balanced with purely residentially zoned lands to the north and west. On the balance of those issues, considering the property's access to infrastructure, water, sewer, and street, we did find the request to be compatible to rezone it to RSF4. Okay.
 Looking at it through a long range land use plan, staff did find the request to be generally consistent. The future land use map does indicate that properties designated as a residential neighborhood area would suggest the appropriateness of a mix of residential types. However, given the fairly low infill score, it's likely not appropriate to allow more intense or dense residential uses.
 From an additional issue standpoint, when looking at tree canopy, it's effectively a wash. Both the RSF4 and RA zoning districts both require 25% minimum tree canopy. And as for public comments, I'm actually going to touch on that here in a moment. Thanks.
 if you'll allow me. Stepping back in time a minute, when the previous request was brought to the council, I noted at that time that the adjoining request, which is this one, had been held by the Planning Commission. At that time, the request was to rezone this property before you tonight to RIE, residential intermediate urban. Staff did not support that request. We felt it was too intense and dense for this location. The Planning Commission had similar concerns and tabled the item.
 What was brought back was a request to rezone it to RSF4, which is what you see as the ordinance is written tonight. Staff changed their recommendation to be in support of it, and the Planning Commission felt similarly about
 This brings us to public comment. There was a significant amount of public opposition to the request to rezone the property to RAU. There was a lengthy petition that was included in the city council's packet. There was, at that time, the item was then tabled. And this is, I think, where you all...
 Probably, not probably, you did receive an email from a resident that was concerned about the process, which I'm going from the specific of the opposition to the request to frustrations about process at this point. As you all know, requests are periodically amended at the Planning Commission, sometimes between Planning Commissions, sometimes between the Planning Commission and Council. This is one of those instances where staff was advised that the applicant would be amending their request before the Planning Commission.
 although it had not officially been amended yet. And so in an effort to try to be courteous to the public, the planner on the item had reached out to the lead signatory of the petition, advising them that a request would be forthcoming. I think this was a very frustrating experience for that resident, they felt that
 The public notice sign should have been changed too, but that's not typically done between meetings like that. So I did want to speak to that and share that that is certainly an opportunity the staff recognizes where we can improve how we're interacting with the public and making sure that they're informed of what is a current request, as opposed to something that has happened before or transitioning between meetings.
 So, with that said, at the second Planning Commission meeting where the request was amended to RSF4, there were a few members of the public there who spoke, one of which was still in opposition of this request. The others just expressed general concerns, again, about procedure or their frustrations with the process as they've experienced it.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions you have. And I believe Nathan Crouch is here with Blue and Associates, or online, excuse me, with Blue and Associates as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Good evening. This is Nathan Crouch with Blue and Associates. Just wanted to let everyone know that I was here to answer questions if you have any for me. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff?
 okay well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or a council any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that Susan who you have on zoom no one's on zoom there okay is there anyone want to speak on this in the chamber
 okay i'll bring it back to the council what's the wishes to council um i i read the email about the the resident citizen that was upset i
 I feel like if you were to pick up that sign, a red sign with small letters and replace it with a red sign with small letters that I don't think anybody would know that it was different. So I don't feel like we need kind of a new plan there. You would almost have to have a new color
 and I don't want to add random new colors in there. So I'm sorry that the citizen feels slighted there, but I don't, right now, I don't think our system would,
 really affect that. Now I have mentioned and we've talked about this and I think we may change rules that when things get appealed absolutely sign needs to go back on so I'm glad that is. This seems fairly straightforward. I'm glad to see that it was reduced to RSF4. So with that I'll move suspend rules and go to second reading. Second.
 Motion to second goes the second read care. Would you please call the roll bench? Yes Her yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes. Yeah. Yes. I
 Inion? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 22-35 located at 6074 West Weddington Drive in Ward 4 for approximately 2.43 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF4 Residential Single Family 4 units per acre. Council Members from Ward 4
 say something or anything or what you all think? I did hear from the resident that Jonathan mentioned and I'm glad you talked with her and followed up on that and thank you for doing that. I think our process can be very confusing but we, you know, everybody does the best they can do. So that's the only person I heard from.
 Yeah, and I definitely think that this is much more agreeable than RAU, so I will be in support of this. Okay. Moves to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and second to go to third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Lederkerth? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 and your initial reason on that property described rezoning petition rzn 22-35 located at 6074 west weddington drive in ward 4 for approximately 2.43 acres from r.a residential agricultural to rsf4 residential single family four units per acre any final comments from the council
 Would you please call her up? Yes, sir. Yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones. Yes Canyon yes Whitaker yes Scroggins. Yes Okay, thank you all number five an ordinance to rezone that property to grab a rezoning petition RZ n 22-0 4-4 located at
 East Mountain Street in Ward 1 for approximately 0.12 acres from RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 unit spreader to DG downtown general kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property zone on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre to DG, Downtown General. Section 2, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property takes us to Central Fayetteville in Ward 1 about three blocks east of where we're sitting today on the east side of College as it slopes down from the historic courthouse. The property is currently undeveloped with a two-family dwelling. Perhaps unsurprisingly for where it is, the property is on a slope, although averaging about 10% going downhill from northwest to southeast.
 The request is to rezone the property from its existing RMF24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre designation to DG, Downtown General. And reviewing their request, planning staff did find it to be compatible with surrounding land uses to rezone the property to Downtown General. The applicant did indicate that their interest is to do this so that they can subdivide the new structure into townhomes.
 From a compatibility standpoint, staff is most put at ease because of the size of the property. Now, while downtown general does allow for some heightened entitlements, both literally in height of the building, but also in the number of land uses, staff found that this is an appropriate place to have residential, non-residential or a mix of the two.
 Similarly, from a long-range planning standpoint, staff found this request to be consistent. Our future land use map calls this area out as a residential neighborhood area, which does not preclude non-residential uses, especially in appropriate locations.
 Given the high infill score, the proximity to the downtown, staff found this request to be very complimentary to its location within the city. One item I did want to touch on is it does appear that the infill score for the property is actually nine, not eight for whatever it's worth. It did look like we missed that there is a transit stop nearby, which is perhaps not surprising to anybody in this room.
 That said, as far as other issues of interest to council, this would reduce the canopy requirement for the property. RMF 24 does currently require 20%, where DG requires 10%. That may not be of as much consequence given the property is under development, but it does bear discussion. Otherwise, it was asked at agenda session.
 how the existing versus proposed setbacks may relate to each other. If I understood it correctly, I think one of the main comments was those front setbacks and whether we would be creating a situation, whether on this property or others, of completely shifting where the buildings align on the street.
 Comparing RMF 24 on the left-hand side and DG on the right, both zoning districts have a zero to 25 foot build to zone. So in that regard, there's not much distinction. Where there is a distinction is if you're looking at the street, basically looking along the street as though you're on foot, is the stair step requirement associated with RMF 24, which is not present in DG. Under RMF 24, you're allowed to go up two stories when you're within 10 feet of the
 go up to three stories once you get back to 20 and beyond 20 you're allowed to go to five stories whereas dg allows five stories by right at the front property line
 That said, and with the other factors in mind, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly, although with limited comment. They did feel the request was consistent with our land use policies and voted unanimously by 7-0 to forward the item to Council. And to date, we have not received any public comment on the item. And I'm available for questions, and I believe Bill Fugate is online as the applicant for this item, Mayor. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council? Yes.
 No comments, but happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom Susan? No one on Zoom, Mayor.
 Alright, do we have anybody in the chamber like to speak to us on this? Okay, bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council or what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take?
 I have a comment and just thank you for the visual on the RMF 24 and DG. That's super helpful. I don't have anything and I didn't hear anything. Did you hear anything, DeAndre? No, I haven't heard anything. Okay. Thank you all.
 If anyone has any questions, we can, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Care which police call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inion? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Yes.
 had an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 22-44 located at 170 east mountain street in ward one for approximately an eighth of an acre from rmf 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to dg downtown general but we suspended the rules to go to the third minor reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading
 Bunch yes, sir. Yes, yes RV yes, Jones. Yes Indian yes
 Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-44, located at 170 East Mountain Street, Ward 1, for approximately an eighth of an acre from RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to DG, downtown general. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Bench yes, sir. Yes, Ertzberg. Yes Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes Indian yes, we did her Yes, yes All right. Thank you all number six an ordinance to approve vacation 22 days 0 to 2 property located at 36 15 Nor steel Boulevard in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of the utilities kit and
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of the utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 And section three, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any damage to or relocation of any existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense. Number two, applicant agrees that in the event at any time in the future, a utility company needs to do work in the area of the utility easement being vacated. And if the canopy posts located along the building setback line approximately five feet south
 of the utility easement line would interfere with the performance of the work, applicant will temporarily remove the canopy post at the applicant's expense to allow the work to be performed without interference. Okay. Okay. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property takes us to North Fayetteville and to Ward 3. More specifically, it's on the southwest corner of Van Ash Drive and Steel Boulevard. It might be most recognizable to council members as the location of JJ's Live or the former JBGB music venue and restaurant.
 As a part of enclosing their outdoor stage, which is still visible on the aerial image here, in the last year there was a loading dock that was built along the north side of the building. Unfortunately, there was either an oversight and due diligence or otherwise a lack of looking into it, but the portion of the loading dock was built over a utility easement on the site that became apparent when staff was visiting the property for certificates of occupancy.
 As a result, and in response to that, the applicant is proposing to vacate a portion of the easement. You can see the easement in faint pink here along the north side of the building. And the portion of the easement that's being proposed to vacate, which is about five feet by about 125 feet, put in survey forms. You can see here in yellow what is proposed to be vacated underneath the area of that loading dock.
 Staff has not identified any issues other than the fact that this is a responsive vacation easement or retroactive easement vacation request. All the utility companies have signed off on the request. Mr. Williams did note, of course, that SWEPCO had the highest degree of concern, and so they have programmed into this vacation a condition of approval dictating that the property owner will remove the easement.
 elements of that encroachment if need be and in return for that they are willing to consent to the vacation or the easement being vacated
 That said, again, staff is recommending in favor of it. There are these two conditions and no other utility company has provided opposition to the proposal. I'm happy to take any questions that council has. I do not believe representation is here for the item though tonight. I was not able to connect with them before the meeting, but Jody Thornton is listed.
 Thanks. Okay. Well, what questions does the council have for the staff? I suppose My only concern is the applicants not here I'd like him to hear that third condition about moving removing the post at his costs if the utility company requested and
 And so it kind of concerns me that he's not here to actually listen to this condition, even though I'm sure you've supplied him with that. But it might be we might want to just leave it on this reading and see if maybe they'll attend the next meeting so that they can. Because if he's going to object to that, I want to know it in public. I'd like to ask him.
 If he's here, whether he understands that at any time in the future, he might be required to remove his canopy poles. Certainly. And I think that's reasonable if the council wishes to go that route. We did have concerns after the last two vacations that we brought forward to council had conditions from SWEPCO to which the applicants were not aware of, despite submitting the documents. So I...
 I'm not opposed to that. The encroachment's there, and it's likely not going anywhere in the interim. So is anybody opposed to leaving it on this rating? Okay, let's move along then. Number seven, in order to amend Ordinance 6010 and change the approved closing time for the VIP club from 1.30 a.m. to 2.00 a.m.,
 Mike, this one is, oh, Kit, I'm sorry, you have this. Thank you, Mayor. Whereas on November 17, 2017, the City Council passed Ordinance 2010 approving the application of Sami Hamar Haddaji
 on behalf of the VIP club for permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 326 Northwest Avenue, number 6. And whereas the city council of the city incorporated into Ordinance 6010, Mr. Hadji's voluntary offer to close the VIP club no later than 1.30 a.m.,
 and whereas the city council has determined that the vip club should now be permitted to operate until 2 a.m
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, are hereby amend Ordinance 6010 and changes the approved closing time for the VIP Club, which operates as a private club in the city of Fayetteville, at 326 Northwest Avenue, number 6, from 1.30 a.m. to 2 a.m. Okay. Mike?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I appreciate counsel being willing to entertain this tonight. Thank you. Mr. Hadadji has run a quality club. The police department has confirmed there have been no issues with the operation of his business.
 And in light of all the other businesses having a 2 a.m. closing time, it did seem like a reasonable request. Once the police changed their opinion that it was not effectively aiding them and were supportive of this, I too was supporting it and bringing it forward. So I thank you all for your patience with me in bringing this to you tonight. Okay. Would the police like to weigh in on that? No.
 Good evening, Brad Renfrow here for Chief Reynolds. So, yeah, we did not have any opposition to changing this. The VIP club's been easy to work with, and just in the interest of fairness that we don't have any opposition. Okay, good. All right. Would the applicant like to speak with the council? Yes.
 Good evening, counsel. Robert Rose with the law firm of Hall Estill and my client, Sammy Hadaji, is sitting right back there. I thank you for bringing this forward. And I know you probably have, it's been a long night and by the way, you all deliberated
 I thought in very fine fashion on the hotel issue. I thought that was well done. I will not go into a lot because I suspect you all probably read the letter that I have written. And so I think you know that we're looking to change this. But I would ask one thing.
 If indeed you're inclined to vote to change this to 2 o'clock, I do not know, since this is an amendment of an ordinance, if it is effective immediately. And if it's not, I would ask that you do an emergency clause. I can answer that question for you, Councillor Rhoads. This only affects a single club one time.
 So it's not an ordinance of general and permanent nature, and therefore it will be effective immediately. Thank you. And with that, we stand ready, willing, and able to answer any kind of questions. But thank you. Does the council have any questions for the sponsor? Okay. Six public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. We have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first. And those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? Nobody. Okay. Anything further to add from... Y'all are good? Okay, they're good. Alright, so I'll bring back to the council.
 what discussion with the council like to have or action to council like to take it only makes sense to match with the others in the area so I'm going to spend rules and go to second reading second all right we've got a motion to second second reading here would you please call the roll bench yes sir yes Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes Indian yes we occur yes Scroggins yes
 In order to amend Ordinance 6010 and change the approved closing time for the VIP Club from 1.30 a.m. to 2 a.m. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Motion to second. Go to third and final reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Ordinance to amend ordinance 6010 and change the approved closing time for the VIP Club from 1 30 a.m. To 2 a.m He found comments in the council. Thank You councilmember Whitaker for bringing this forward Anything else care, but please call me bench. Yes, Kirk. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, RV Yes, Jones. Yes, Indian. Yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins. Yes
 Okay, any announcements? Mary, the only announcement I have is everybody looks forward to this annual event, which is the 24th annual celebration of trees set for October 29th, the tree giveaway at the Spring Street parking deck beginning at 7 in the morning. Thank you. Anything else? Everybody get there early. Because they go fast. All right, thank you, everybody. We're adjourned.