I'm going to call to order the City Council meeting of October the 19th, 2021. Care to please call the roll? Scroggins. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Jones. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Jones.
 Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, welcome everyone. First order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda.
 number one approval of the October 5th 2021 City Council meeting minutes number two resolution to award bid number 21-59 and to authorize the purchase of bulk crushed rock salt from Central Salt LLC for $80 per ton for materials picked up in $94.25 per ton for materials delivered as needed
 Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of speed cushions from Traffic Logic Corporation in the amount of $25,285.00.
 plus any applicable sales taxes and freight charges presented to NCPA Co-operative Purchasing Agreement for use by the Transportation Department. Number four, a resolution to approve a cost share agreement with Butterfield Trail Village Incorporated for Butterfield Trails Removal and Reconstruction
 of a portion of damaged city sidewalk along Old Missouri Road. Any amount of $2,900 will be paid by the City of FedEx. Number five, a resolution to award bid number 21-70 and to authorize a contract with Crossland Heavy Contractors Incorporated in the amount of $1,680,751 for the construction of Shiloh Drive and Steel Boulevard intersection project.
 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $252,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 transportation bond project. Number six.
 A resolution to approve Amendment No. 1 to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Garver LLC in the amount of $25,000 for construction phase services associated with the Shiloh Drive and Steel Boulevard intersection project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 bond project.
 7. A resolution to approve change order number 3 to the contract with JBZ Inc. DBA Ellingson Contracting in the amount of $140,619 for construction of the front and rear porches and replacement of missing windows and doors associated with the Woolsey Farmstead Restoration Project and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $14,062. 8.
 Number eight, a resolution to approve the Special Needs Assistance Program Grant Agreement Amendment with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Federal Housing Authority in the total amount of $76,763 for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents. Number nine.
 resolution to approve an amendment to the current right-of-way maintenance permit with the Arkansas Department of Transportation in order for the city to be able to assist the creation of the city's third medical cannabis century by having the right to determine which trees may be removed and which must be retained from parcel
 765-14875-001 near Interstate 49, number 10, a resolution to approve a remission deed to reconvey about 5.82 acres to Trust A of the Hoyt
 Greenwood estate so that Miss Jean Jowers may personally donate this 5.82 acres back to the city of federal and number 11 a resolution to prove a sub recipient agreement with the Northwest Arkansas Council Foundation to provide funding from the American rescue plan. Local recovery funds to provide
 regional wide COVID-19 communication and vaccination campaign in Benton and Washington counties and to approve a budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to approve the consent agenda as read. Kara, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all. An unfinished business. Number one, a resolution to approve an extension of the city's sewage system beyond the city limits to property located at 1776 North Fox Hunter Road. Who has this, Susan? Mark Rogers. Okay, Mark. Mark?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm Mark Rogers, Water and Sewer Operations Manager. There's a five-acre section of land at 1776 North Fox Hunter Road, just outside the city limits, and about a half a mile from the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Plant. A current customer wants to build a home on that property. There's an 18-inch diameter sewer main located in an easement on the property, which would be accessible for service with the construction of a new manhole.
 Utility is in support of the request as it's a viable option to installing a septic tank. According to the property owner, the on-site soils do not percolate adequately for septic installation per county standards. Percolation is the water absorption rate of soil and is used for designing septic drain fields.
 this item was presented to the water sewer and solid waste committee on october 12th with the 3-0 vote to forward it to the city council with a recommendation for approval okay is there any questions from the council on this item mayor i have a call back okay so
 So during our discussion at the Water and Sewer Committee meeting, we talked about the cost to the city. And there was no cost to the city. The landowner will bear all the costs associated with purchasing the manhole cover and will also pay impact fees. Yes.
 So that reason led us to agree, as well as it not being suitable for soil for perking the septic tank. Thank you. Okay. Anything else from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. The topic is the sewage extension. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those that are participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the chamber will be allowed to speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan?
 We have no hands raised on Zoom. Okay. Is there anyone like to address this from the public that's here? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? What action would they like to take? This is a resolution. I move that we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Keravich, please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Yes.
 TURK? Yes. HERTSBURG? Yes. GUTIERREZ? Yes. JONES? Yes. KENYON? Yes. PETTY? Yes. All right, thank you all. Moving along to new business. Number one, an ordinance to waive the requirements for formal competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of used vehicles for the police department unmarked unit program in an amount not to exceed $35,000 for vehicle.
 and to allow existing unmarked units to be sold for trade-in value toward replacements. Blake. Thank you.
 whereas the police department maintains an unmarked used vehicle fleet for use by plain clothes officers and whereas used vehicles are critical components of police department's criminal investigation administration training and community policing divisions and whereas periodic replacement of used unmarked vehicles is increasingly difficult due to trouble in locating appropriate used vehicles while meeting the city's standard bidding and purchasing requirements particularly the time required of the formal bid process
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding authorizes the purchase of used vehicles for the police department unmarked unit program in an amount not to exceed $35,000 per vehicle and further approves the sale of existing unmarked units for trade in value toward replacements geez
 Yeah, good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council Members. For the past 30 years, the Police Department has maintained a unmarked vehicle program or covert vehicle program, and that is funded through our capital improvement program. These vehicles are utilized for the day-to-day operations, as Blake mentioned, our administration, our criminal investigation division, our...
 our training division and our community-oriented policing division, just to name a few. In 2011, the City Council did approve a bid waiver for $25,000 or not to exceed $25,000. And then in 2018, that bid waiver was improved to include a bid not to exceed $30,000.
 The pandemic sure or certainly has caused some supply chain issues and decreased the inventory in both new and pre-owned vehicles, resulting in inflation. Matter of fact, I've seen a lot of used vehicles that have appreciated over the past 18 months as well. So it's becoming extremely difficult for us to locate any pre-owned vehicles.
 within the current bid waiver, which does include the trade-in values as well. So tonight I am requesting that you increase the bid waiver for unmarked vehicles from 30,000 to 35,000, a pretty straightforward request, and I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have with the chief on this from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. The topic is the unmarked unit, police department unmarked unit program. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the council chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one has raised their hand. Okay. Who would like to address this that's inside the chamber? All right.
 I'm going to bring it back to the city council. This is an ordinance. What action would the council like to take or what discussion would they like to have? This is an ordinance on the first reading. If there's no questions or comments, I admit that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. I care, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? No.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of used vehicles for the Police Department Unmarked Unit Program in an amount not to exceed $35,000 per vehicle and to allow existing unmarked units to be sold for trade-in value toward replacements.
 This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What action or discussion would the council like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Eddie. Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of used vehicles for the police department unmarked unit program in an amount not to exceed $35,000 per vehicle and to allow existing unmarked units to be sold for trade-in value toward replacements. Final comments we have in the council on this. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes.
 Yes. Third? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Moving along to number two, a resolution to grant the appeal of Council Member Sarah Bunch and to deny LSIP 2021-007. So we will start with...
 Sarah Bunch who appealed this decision. So Sarah, what would you like to say to counsel? I was approached by several people in the vicinity of this development just a lot of concern in the neighborhood and
 I don't have, I cannot pull up what I turned in as my appeal, but you should have it all. Everyone should have it in their file. So I'm basically just doing this on the behest of the neighbors, just to give them an opportunity to, you know, to have their say at the council level. Okay. Next we'll hear from staff. Jonathan, you have 10 minutes.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurz with the City's Development Services Department. I'm going to provide a little bit of background on the request just to contextualize it for the commission.
 And beginning here, the property is located in North Fayetteville, a few lots west of the intersection of Zion Road and Crossover. It's sandwiched just to the west of Fayetteville Athletic Club on the north side of Zion Road, just east of Randall Place, West.
 It was previously the split zone RO residential office and RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. In November of 2020, the city council did rezone the property, changing its split zoning from RO and RMF 24 to CS community services along Zion and RIE residential intermediate urban along Randall Place to the north.
 throughout that process staff did not receive any public comment and no comments were heard either at the Planning Commission or City Council meeting.
 Sorry, there's an example that failed to afford the slide. More recently, in February of 2021, a mixed-use development was submitted for staff's review. This included seven buildings, the five of which on the northern portion of the site were intended for purely residential use, and those along Zion are proposed as mixed use with restaurant and retail on the lower floors and residential on the upper floors
 As a part of this, the residential component included 29 units with 35 beds. The non-residential component, again, alongside included a restaurant just shy of 3,700 square feet and a little bit over 6,000 square feet of retail space.
 the our
 There are options for reductions to be taken if a property is in proximity to transit. If alternatives are provided for scooter and bike parking, both of which are all those options of which this development has taken. But then they went ahead and are proposing the on-street parking again on Zion and Randall Place.
 As the project moved through the development process, some variances were submitted. The first ones were submitted in May of 2021. These were for building design standards and for the on-street parking and street design. Regarding the building design, staff felt that the proposed structure certainly met the intents of our ordinances, even if they weren't able to beat the letter of the code in some instances.
 There were some articulation standards the project could not meet, but we felt that those were offset by other elements of the design. There was some offset bricks that provided interesting shadow lines, balconies, colonnades, and the like.
 Moving on to perhaps the more contentious piece was a proposal to reallocate the right-of-way on Zion to provide on-street parking, both on the north and south sides of Zion. For those of you who have been watching closely, you know Zion is currently under reconstruction now as a part of a bond project. That design included a proposal for two travel lanes and a turn lane and no on-street parking.
 Ultimately, staff and the commission recommended the on-street parking be allowed on the north side of Zion adjacent to the development and not on the south side. As a part of vetting this,
 You can see here what the applicant was proposing, the parking on both sides of the street. The applicant's assertion was much of what the council has heard in recent conversations about with the speed limit discussions is on-street parking is one of the components that can help reduce traffic speeds.
 Staff was concerned with the compromising the ability to move traffic through the area, but sacrificing the turn lane there for additional on-street parking. Ultimately, what was approved after some thorough vetting of sight lines and the ability of traffic to be able to see in and out of the development,
 was parking just on the north side of that street. Additionally, staff or the applicant was able to demonstrate other areas of the city where this parking arrangement has functioned successfully, both in downtown and outside of it. And again, ultimately the planning commission recommended in favor of the on-street parking on the north side of Zion.
 Subsequently, a second variance application was submitted in August of 2021. This was for cross-access on the development. Our development codes require this for projects to facilitate people going between developments without having to jump back out on the street.
 Staff did recommend in favor of the request for two main reasons. One is the property to the east is a detention pond. It did not represent an opportunity for cross-access. Similarly, all the drainage flows in the area, which you can see here in the light blue dash line and black arrows,
 represents the flow through the property to the north. Did not feel it was appropriate to realign that too significantly for the benefits that cross-access might bring. Similarly, the applicant shared their overall master plan for the development, which included several connections, pedestrian connections between the two portions of it that staff felt maintained the intent of being able to boot between the two properties without necessarily having to get out on the public street.
 Subsequent to that, staff was able to issue an administrative conditional approval letter. In terms of what this means procedurally, it means the applicant would be able to move into grading permits where some final outstanding items and detailed issues that
 Sometimes don't get worked through development entitlement can be worked through soon thereafter The city clerk received a resident appeal and staff placed the item on the September 27th Planning Commission meeting where staff's approval was ultimately upheld unanimously by the Planning Commission and
 And similarly, tonight, staff does recommend upholding our approval, as well as the Planning Commission's confirmation made last month. And I'm happy to take any questions the Council has. Thank you. Okay. Is the developer here? Would you like to speak for the Council? You have ten minutes. Thank you, Mayor. I'm Brian Teague with... You can drop your mask while you're at the podium.
 Be sure to put it back on when you leave.
 I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design. I designed the project. I'm representing the property owner and the developer of the project. As Jonathan said, we came before you in the fall of last year with a rezoning request, which the council approved. We've been working since that time with city staff on the details of the site plan, the building plans.
 And the city staff approved the site improvement plan over the summer. We have building permit drawings for all the buildings. I'm ready to apply for building permits. We've applied for a grading permit from the engineering department, which is in process.
 The zoning allows the development as we proposed it. The development code allows the project as we proposed it.
 I would like to point out the city plan. It designates the area along Zion Road extending from Randall to Highway 265 as a Tier 2 center, which generally encourages mixed-use development, walkable pedestrian-oriented environments.
 I don't think it's a stretch to say this is pretty much exactly what we have proposed for this project. I think staff would concur with that.
 I think Jonathan did a good job of going over the unit counts, the parking counts. There is a non-residential portion of the project, it's just shy of 10,000 square feet. Just to give a little bit of context, that's about the footprint of this building, yet we're only proposing that non-residential portion to be one story.
 The parking meets the development code, the minimums and the maximums for the non-residential portion. It kind of leans on the developer to have the knowledge of his customer base, how much parking he needs.
 The property owner and developer has operated successful restaurants, a number of different successful restaurants in Fayetteville over the years and he's quite aware of how much parking he needs and we use that knowledge to kind of inform our site improvement plan. Jonathan mentioned some variances that we did request from the Planning Commission.
 And I could go into those in detail if we need to at some point, but primarily, those we weren't really asking for permission not to do something. It was really sincerely an attempt to make the project better, to make the buildings more like our traditional Main Street examples.
 In reviewing the public comment, I did see some concern about vehicular accidents on Zion Road. I took a look at the historical data and of course there are some vehicular accidents that have happened in the past. However, those are mostly minor accidents and quite typical of arterials.
 arterial streets and collector streets. If you look at Mission or Township, for example, you'll see that those streets had more accidents than what you see on Zion Road. Zion sees about 10,000 vehicles per day on average. Any
 Any trip generation from this project I think would be much, much smaller than that and would not have a measurable impact on the functionality of Zion Road.
 As you all know, there is some, the city is constructing improvements to Zion Road. Essentially it's adding a continuous center turn lane along Zion Road. Working with staff and coupling that with this pedestrian environment that we're trying to create with the project, that was probably my biggest concern was that center turn lane.
 And the fact that if you have a two-way street, you have a center turn lane in the middle, you widen that street, you're likely going to get vehicular speeds 40 miles per hour plus. You look at pedestrian fatality rates at that speed, it's up at close to 90 percent.
 We really want in pedestrian environments, I mean we want to create places more like Dixon Street where the vehicular speeds are at 20 miles per hour. Pedestrian fatality rates are at 10% at that speed.
 So over the last year I've had a lot of discussion with staff about the possibility of removing that center turn lane in the Tier 2 center or along our project's frontage. And you know, that would accommodate parallel parking on both sides. It would increase our parking count significantly.
 Parallel parking is the best traffic calming tool in the toolbox, so I really do think that would slow down the speed on Zion Road along our project's frontage. In talking with staff, that would have to be done with the Master Street Plan amendment.
 So, you know, while we're here tonight, I would be interested in hearing the Council's thoughts on potentially a Master Street Plan modification for the Tier 2 Center.
 But with that, of course, I hope that you would uphold staff's approval of our project and be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay. What questions does the council have for the staff or the developer? Okay.
 Mayor, I have a question. This is for staff. Jonathan, could you discuss the tree canopy preservation and if that has been worked out where it reaches the 17.5% during this process?
 that's a good question thank you i was not prepared to speak to tree canopy i apologize if you allow me a minute i believe i can track that down fairly quickly i know this portion a lot was largely without canopy compared to the northern portion but allow me to dig into that i apologize i don't have that at my fingertips that's okay and i'll have a second question after we finish the tree canopy discussion
 And it may be while I'm looking for this that Mr. T can speak to it and I can confirm what he has available if you're interested. That would be great. Okay. Yeah. Cool.
 Mr. Kurth is correct. Most of the first phase or the south side of the project, there is not a lot of tree canopy. The way that we did our tree canopy calculation, if I remember correctly, was that we were going to lean on that north phase and have a lot more tree preservation in the north phase of the development. If you...
 I think I would have to pull up the tree preservation plan to speak to that specifically. I think maybe Jonathan has that so I won't have to speculate. I do. It looks, Council Member Turcotte, it does look like some removal had to be done below the minimum canopy and as a result 27 trees are required to be planted to mitigate that.
 Okay, thank you. Have those trees already been removed? Not to my knowledge that would be a violation of our tree preservation ordinance. I don't I've not seen any forest notes from forestry indicating that they have done that or if there's penalties associated with that. Okay. As we all know longer-lived trees sequester much more carbon than new saplings that are better planted. So my second question is
 You know, there's a stream that runs through there that actually goes to Lake Fayetteville, as I think one of your slides, Jonathan, pointed out. And then looking at the designs that were just presented, it looks like that stream is completely paved over. Is that accurate? Do I misunderstand that?
 that showed development on the northern half of the site was part of the applicant's master plan that they had shared with one of their variances. Again, I think they would best be able to speak to that. That's not being impacted with this portion of the proposal tonight.
 Okay. You know, it makes it difficult when you kind of split up. I mean, it's zoned all CS, but when it's split up like this, it makes it very difficult for everybody to follow. So I would love to hear what the applicant plans to do with the stream that basically cuts the property in half at 90 degrees.
 Right, we are meeting the streamside protection zone ordinance and the requirements of that ordinance. There's really three, the stream is a part of a larger drainage basin that somewhat traverses the site from east to northwest and
 We are proposing to preserve most of that stream corridor. If you look at the master plan, you'll see the pedestrian greenway.
 that traverses the site from east to west and partially from south to north. That's where the stream is located. There are two other smaller sub drainage basins. One that goes along our east property line, which we are proposing to pipe a portion of that about 150 feet
 And then the second sub drainage basin is along our west property line. It's basically a ditch that runs along the east side of Randall Place. Because of the street widening requirement on Randall Place, we are proposing to pipe that drainage.
 And I have a follow-up question, I guess, to Jonathan. With the proposed widening to create parallel parking on the east side of Randall Place in the ditch that you just mentioned, Mr. Teague, who actually pays for the street widening? Is that borne by the city or is that a cost share with the developer? How does that quite work?
 As it came through development, it would be borne by the developer. For it to be cost-shared with the city, that would have to go before the city council. So typically it's borne exclusively by the developer unless there's a cost-share arrangement approved by the city council? That is correct. Okay. Thank you all. Thank you.
 I have a question for the developer as well. So some of the residents that I some of the residents that I've spoken with had some concerns about overflow parking. They had claimed that the proposed design doesn't have I think they said it provides less than 50% of the parking that is needed. Have you spoken with any of the residents and do you have a plan for overflow parking?
 We did speak to a number of the residents last fall when we brought the rezone forward and those concerns were not brought forward at that time. We feel like we are providing adequate parking for our proposal.
 and it will likely function in a shared parking scenario where some of the businesses, their peak parking demand will happen in the evening, where other businesses, their peak demand will happen during the day. And if we need to, the residential, the portion of parking that addresses the residential requirement,
 that that would that parking would be shared also to some extent did you guys when you were taking into consideration parking for one bedroom did you count one car for that unit or two we counted to one car per bedroom okay thank you any other questions from the council for the staff or the developer
 I have a question, uh, where I think maybe this might be for engineering. I'm not sure. Um, what is the current speed limit and what will be the new speed limit with the revised, um, street plan on Zion?
 Chris is that for me Jonathan you want me to handle that? You may be more familiar with it. I do know I believe it's 25 today all the way to Randall And I think it increases, but I'm not certain what it will be after the construction. Yeah, I think there's some there's some 25 There's maybe some 35 out there as well That's something that we have not yet evaluated, but but we'll be evaluating I think it
 Kind of ties into some of that discussion we had recently about speed limits and what the appropriate limit is. And there are ways of making those decisions. So we have not gotten there yet. I believe that street classification in our mobility plan shows operating speeds –
 And if I may add to that, Councilmember Gutierrez, the reviewing engineer on this item did look at the on-street parking on Zion in terms of a 30-mile-per-hour speed limit. So it was anticipated that it would be towards that upper end of what Mr. Brown referenced. Thank you.
 Okay. Any other questions from the council? So, Jonathan and Chris, what would be some other places? I mean, I know there are other places in Fayetteville where we have parallel parking like this that might have two lanes and a turn lane, a similar situation to what is causing people to have so much concern. Okay.
 i think the most prominent one that most people would probably be familiar with is lafayette i believe has a turn lane on it in addition to uh well it has on-street parking and two lanes of travel i don't believe it has a turn lane though
 Closer to this area, perhaps more contextually appropriate, the water park apartments on the northeast corner of Steele and Van Asch installed on-street parking with that development. Along Van Asch there's on-street parking along the entire extent with two lanes of traffic and a turn lane. Okay, thank you. Okay, excuse me, hang on, who are you? Nathan Ogden, the developer of Pickett Construction.
 We've already heard from the developer, I'm sorry. Unless the council would like to hear from you, we've already heard from Mr. Teague. Okay, I was just going to address a couple of concerns that they were still talking about. Okay, you're going to have to wait. Okay. Okay, what other questions do we have from the council for the developer, which I assume is Mr. Teague, who's introduced himself as representing the developer, or my staff? Okay, now we're going to hear from the public. Okay.
 all right everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic which is the appeal uh please no rude behavior please give us your name and address we will listen to those that are on zoom first and then those that are in the chamber after that who do we have on zoom thank you mayor um
 the first zoom participant is scott terry and let me just also indicate mayor i have once you're through with zoom i have some sign up forms so we'll try to call on the people that have filled out the sign up forms first because some of them might be in the i mean after zoom some of them might be outside okay very well we'll do zoom first scott terry okay go ahead you have hang on
 Be sure everybody's got the rules down. Everybody gets five minutes broken into segments in three and two minutes. We're accepting Zoom people first and then those that are signed up after that and then those that are in chamber after that. All right. Very well. All right. Go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Can you hear me now? Yes. OK, thank you. My name is Scott Terry. My address is 2519 East Frontier Elm.
 I live in the Lakewood subdivision, which is next to the proposed development. Four points that I would like to make. I do think this is creating a dangerous traffic condition. The bond improvements to Zion were to enhance the east-west traffic flow from Crossover to College. It was to create two lanes of traffic with the center turn lane.
 And the introduction of parallel parking to that area is going to inhibit that traffic flow and create more dangerous conditions to what already exists there and to what the bond improvements were supposed to address.
 The developer addressed accidents on Township and Mission. Those are not equivalent streets because they have no parallel parking. Parallel parking, in my opinion, will create the potential for more accidents in that area. Traffic will be increasing because Chandler Crossing is just to the east of this proposed development. That's 300 new units, which will be having traffic unloaded on the Zion Highway.
 Secondly, this sets a precedent for another three-acre track on Zion that is to the east of Lakewood, which is at Sagely Place. So if this is approved, there's no reason why the developer at Sagely Place cannot also come in and request parallel parking and create the same issues. It is similarly zoned as community service.
 Thirdly, the bond proceeds from the 2019 bond were to enhance Zion to benefit the public. This is actually going to be benefiting private business instead of public good by enabling the traffic to or enabling the street traffic.
 to either be used or be attached to the parallel parking to be added. And then fourthly, there's just inadequate parking being proposed as part of this development. There are already parking issues in the area and in the neighborhood, and when you add a restaurant plus the residential units in this area,
 there just simply is not adequate parking it will overflow into lakewood creating additional problems i've seen this summarized somewhere as an urban development in a suburban area
 I'm not opposed to development, but I am opposed to overflowing that neighborhood and that area with inadequate parking, as well as the dangerous conditions of the parallel parking on Zion, which was intended to improve traffic flow between the major streets of College and to the east with crossover. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address this on Zion?
 Margaret Britton. Go ahead. Hi, this is Margaret Britton. I live at 1931 North Wheeler Avenue in Fayetteville. I'm nowhere near this development, but I do have some concerns about it. First of all, I thought the...
 changes on zion were to help it uh become a bikeway i could be wrong about that um as a as an avid bicyclist i don't see how parallel parking is going to make anything very safe and if if it is supposed to be a bikeway i think we should have input from the trails department but um for the most part i'm here to talk about the creek that goes through this property um
 It's in the Lake Fayetteville watershed. I'm very concerned about what the effect of this development will have on the lake. When I looked at the creek, it looks pretty healthy. It's got a good riparian zone right now. There's some nice flow through it. I saw fish in the creek.
 Actually, I saw fish from that north boundary where the developer talks about putting a pipe in there. And, of course, a pipe is not...
 not good habitat for fish. So fish are certainly an indicator that we've got a healthy little stream there. It's not a lot, but it's a healthy stream that is feeding Lake Fayetteville. As the council should remember back in March, you made a commitment to make Lake Fayetteville swimmable within now nine and a half years. So I think...
 i think for for any development we need to ask the question what is the effect of any development on the watershed and i'm not against development i'm not even against development on part of this property but i do feel that like the stream and the water on that property need to be carefully protected um
 The permit, I looked at the permits at the property today. The authorization to discharge stormwater, and I'm not sure what that's about in regards to this. Anyway, that permit expires the end of this month
 They also on another page of the permitting, the question is asked, will you be conducting any in-stream or wetted area activities? The answer was yes. And it said, if yes, have you obtained an approval for short-term activity authorization? The answer was no, but we have applied. Also another question is asked on that,
 On the on the permitting there the sign at the property is the stream or what it area considered waters of the United States. And the answer was yes, if yes, have you obtained a 404 permit from the army corps mentioned years now not yet applying, so I think.
 those applications have to be well in place before anything continues. I know that we're talking about the other end of the property right now, but I would really like to see at this meeting the master plan so we can see what the effect on the water within the property will be going forward. That's all I have. Thanks so much. I appreciate it.
 who else would like to address this by zoom nobody else by zoom mayor okay who have you got signed up okay so signed up although i know not where they sit they might be in here or outside first i have don johnson i'm don johnson and i live at 2554 east river birch drive and i wrote the appeal uh for to
 an individual and also for residents of Lakewood subdivision and we have 75 signatures on that appeal we appeal to the city to not approve the LSIFP on Zion and Randall and The developer requested very, you know several variances which were which were approved by the Planning Commission and these were to allow off-street parking and
 or on off site parallel parking on Zion and Randall to remove cross access between the north and south sections and also the Jason FAC property. And the point we want to make is that this LSIP is only three acres and it's, the plan is overly dense, has 76 residential units. If you look at the whole north south plan, there's over 9,800 square feet of commercial space.
 And all this combined requires 135 parking spaces. And the LSIP doesn't seem to conform to the purpose of section 16625 of Fayetteville's Unified Development Code, and I'll kind of mention these as I go.
 LSIP is not a good design, nor is it compatible with our suburban neighborhood in East Fayetteville along Zion Road. But it would be probably a good mixed-use design for downtown Fayetteville, which seems to be where most of these things occur. The plan has an inadequate number of on-site parking spaces.
 I think it said somewhere around 100. And this, I feel, forced the developer to request all these variances to allow overflow to a 34 off-site parallel parking spots. The parallel parking will create and compound a dangerous traffic situation, not only for cars but also bikers and people walking from the from the parallel parking.
 And we also, you'll have some of our people will talk about the fact they feel this on-site or off-site parking will interfere with their area in Lakewood. It'll diminish property values and quality of life. Given the large number of residential units and commercial space, we're concerned that there will be inadequate number of on-site parking spaces for residents and patrons today.
 frequenting the commercial. And it'd be probably one of these first come first serve. And that'll make really, residents really happy to have to fight for a spot to park when they live there and pay rent or own that place. So at 6 p.m. on several, for several weeks, we've been monitoring La Hacienda on the south side of Zion Road. And we consistently count above 41 cars in their parking lot and as high as 87.
 Overflow parking would end up on the street or adjacent properties. The developer would have to move at their own cost the newly installed trail, which is nearly done, and all the lights that are on there, maybe even the telephone poles, just to have parallel parking on that south side of their property. Safety, I think, has already been mentioned several times.
 And the city engineer, Jonathan Ely, said that the new turn lane on Zion Road must be maintained. They wouldn't even venture to work with the developer on that. That will not go away. And I hope the council never does make that go away. I think that would be an injustice. And he also said that they, well, right now he removed the parallel parking on the south side of that, saying that would not work.
 Keeping parallel parking on the north side would be a safety concern, both from the walking and the biking aspect, like I mentioned.
 Any increased traffic on Randall will cause safety concerns because if you look at Randall, there's going to be traffic congestion that in that traffic will exit west on Randall, which can easily exit onto Crossover. And if you know Crossover at that point on Randall, it only goes south. And you can exit west through Lakewood subdivision, which will probably happen, and also Randall. Time. Yes. Time. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Well, like who else you have soon a candy Harold or Hamill candy outside, okay Thank you, mr. Mayor I have a couple of comments to make about the variances that the developer has requested all of the variances For parking they can't get the parking that's required on the property that they bought and
 The variance for the cross-access and the variance to put parallel parking on Randall and on Zion have one impact, and that is that it floods Lakewood homes with a huge amount of cars in a busy time.
 I and a couple of other people who live at Lakewood have counted the cars at La Hacienda restaurant at a specific time on a Friday night for a month. And one time at 9 o'clock, there were 50-something cars. Now, whatever restaurant they put in over there
 we were excited about but then when we looked at the Way they would have to part if the restaurants busy which it will be is to be in our neighborhood There will be parallel parking on our streets on Frontier Elm Where our people have company and that's where we park we've also had problems in the past of people illegally parking which I'm sure is a
 If I lived in an apartment on that property or if I was going to a restaurant on that property and I want to park, it's kind of like the Razorback Games. You park wherever you can and hope you don't get a ticket. And that will be in front of our neighborhoods, that will be in front of our houses, that will be in our alleyways. And our only solution to that problem is to call the police and ask them to take the car or to tow it.
 I don't understand. Meeting the minimum requirement is not ever the best. I would think we would try to do better. This is so different from the planning for mixed use.
 space that we talked about back in 2012 with the city planning and we all envisioned living quarters and condos on top of retail and being able to walk to these neighborhoods safely and this is not what we're getting we are getting beautiful developments like I'm sure this place will be with the tree canopy and the greenery it will be pretty but it will be at the expense of the homes they're built right next to it.
 The other thing that I think is a false comparison is with Watermark on Van Ash and Steele Avenue. Yes, there is off-site parking, parallel parking on that street, and that is a huge street.
 a busy thoroughfare, and there is not one home built around those apartments. Those apartments are the only home. There are restaurants and retail spaces all up and down there. So you don't have people flooding over to neighborhoods to park. You have people parking, if they need it, parking over in another retail space. So that's a false argument. I really think that it's important for when there is this much discussion
 or opposition to development being built, I think that it would, just as a consideration, that every council member needs to come and look at that street and envision what Randall will be like for the homes that are lining Randall, what it will be like to be looking at parallel parking.
 We are not opposed to development. We are thrilled that we're going to be walking to another restaurant or being able to access some fun things to do. We are not against development at all. But we are against the development when it comes to the expense of parking right in our neighborhood and endangering the people who are already there and causing such inconvenience and problems
 for a residential neighborhood we are not downtown fayetteville um i want us to grow and i want our neighborhoods to grow but i want our neighborhoods to remain neighborhood friendly just like i want their neighborhood their development to be neighborhood friendly i want to be able to walk and to ride a bike around there but when i look at parallel parking that's going to come up on randall
 and to get in and out, you're going to have to stop and come around a parked car. And you can't see it. You can't see to get on that road, so that's dangerous. The other thing is with the cross access, the variance that was given to allow them to divide the north and the south part of the property, that means that anybody who lives on that north part of the property will be exiting on Randall. Todd. Thank you. Okay.
 Who else? Lance Weatherton. Good evening. I brought an exhibit, a slideshow exhibit. Do you have it? Does the council wish to ask for it? I don't know. Council, do you wish to add a slideshow? I would like to see the slideshow.
 okay how many how how long yes i'll stay within the time you have you have to stay within the five minutes oh you bet okay um all right josh okay well that's why let's start and then we'll start okay my name is lance weatherton i live 2408 east frontier elm in the lakewood subdivision
 Okay, time starts now. Thank you. I do have some concerns about the development. I do not oppose the development entirely, but from a parking standpoint, I do have some serious safety concerns.
 So to give a little context, I think a lot of the development submittal focuses just on the development, and this is going to be the discussion that's in relation to the master plan. Our Lakewood subdivision is to the west of the property. Pable Athletic Club is to the east. We've got Woodbury subdivisions of apartments to the south. Next slide, please.
 We've superimposed the master plan development onto the overall plan so you can see the density of the proposed development in relation to the Lakewood subdivision and Fayetteville Athletic Club. Next slide. So for non-graphic, so here's an aerial view so you can start to see the actual density of the Lakewood subdivision and Fayetteville Athletic Club to the east. Next slide.
 So, I'm starting to introduce, so we've talked a lot about the area. So, I'm showing here some views down Zion Road. The top right corner is a view as you're heading east down Zion. The bottom right-hand corner is a view of the property at the intersection of Zion and Randall. Next slide, please.
 So as we approach the developments, you can see the density, and you've heard some of the other public comments about the parking issue. The space in the center of the screen is where the proposed development is, and you can see to the west there the density of the neighborhoods.
 As we go through the next discussions, it will show my concern for the overflow parking because there is no overflow parking to the east towards Fayetteville Athletic Club. There's no overflow parking to the north. Everything is coming into Lakewood subdivision.
 So a little context around the site top left-hand corner is the backside of Randall slight slope very narrow There will supposedly be some proposed improvements. The other three slides are looking down the existing Randall we've talked about filling in the the Making the street wider you can see the house on the right side as we look down the the right side of the slides on the top right and
 The right side and the bottom are Lakewood homes and there is no parking allowed on that side, the mailbox side of the street. Next slide. So again, proposed development, South Half commercial and retail, residential above. North Half is purely residential. This just gives you some context. Next slide.
 So we have put in red boxes basically to show the vehicles. On the south half there are 48 spaces proposed behind the building. The top half is split into northeast and northwest. They're proposing 26 spaces in each of those and around the perimeter there's parallel parking and you can start to see some of the overflow going to the left in this Lakewood subdivision. Next slide.
 So I've done a recap of the parking on the proposed site plan. I question their numbers. The on-site is showing roughly 100 parking spaces. Parallel parking around the site shows roughly 25, well another 35 spaces. So on this master site plan, they're showing 135 spaces.
 If you, the developer talked about some of the bedroom requirements, they're using one parking space per bedroom. So if you add in the numbers, it is one space per bedroom, be 44. The reality of the situation is there's not enough parking for the residents of these apartments. You know, one is a very low estimate.
 If we estimated one and a half to two parking spaces required for for residential unit, we're up in the 150 number
 looking at the commercial space roughly 9 000 square feet if we did a conservative estimate one per one space per hundred square feet would leave us 30 spaces one space per 300 square feet would leave us 90 spaces so the overall development and this doesn't allow for guests this doesn't allow for any additional parking so this is where we're coming up with the this this the the site is grossly uh underdeveloped from parking
 and it's going to cause a major overflow into lakewood subdivision next slide so now we're looking at the bigger picture which i think we are failed to do is we start looking at how the cars are going to back up into lakewood we're going to park on the public streets if you had just half of the neighborhood we can accommodate about 25 spaces on the street to accommodate once those spaces start being taken uh time time thank you thank you who else do you have
 I hope I can pronounce this last name. I can't read it very well, but I think it's John Bultbroth. Bultbroth. Thank you.
 I'm John Gopret. I live at 2624 East Randall Place. I live what will be directly... You can take your mask down if you want. Take the mask down? All right, sorry. John Gopret, 2624 East Randall Place. I live on what would be the second house in from Zion or whatever road we live on. Yeah, Zion off of.
 My house will be living directly across, if you know anything about the master plan, you can see that in the front section against Zion Road is going to be the planned construction of the commerce section and restaurant. And if you look, you'll see that the section closest to the,
 our Lakewood properties, has got a sliding garage door with glass in it, which we all know is a marquee of a restaurant with the point of the open air concept. Well, that would be less than 20 feet away from my front door. The way the houses are built,
 The main room is on the front side of the house, right next to the road. So where I would live on my off time from work would be in that front room, which would be right across from what would be a bar, restaurant, and what would be people enjoying their night out, which would, I would assume, as I have spent many nights out, could be quite loud. So quite frequently, I will be the grumpy neighbor that's going to be complaining about loud noise situations.
 top that off during the day because of COVID, I have to work from home instead of driving down to Van Buren every day. Uh, I will be working in the room directly above the place where I live, uh, or my living room, which would be means during the day, I'd have to listen to the restaurant as well outside my front door. So not only top of that off, but you have, uh,
 A lot of other issues, now that I come to think about it, people sitting enjoying themselves outside of a restaurant,
 Can go to security concerns for people that live alongside Randall a place with people easily being able to sit there and hack into my Wi-Fi I could have to be concerns about whether my I have Wi-Fi security with people being able to sit at a local restaurant Or 20 feet away from my house and being able to hack into my Wi-Fi so I can have those concerns but I will have to say this I bought this house last year and
 with the expressing tent knowing that it has this beautiful porch and beautiful patio on the top that or porch whatever second floor porch that you can sit on and enjoy your summer evenings and now it's not no longer going to be looking at what I was hoping was well of course I didn't know what's going to be there would be was at the time a prairie and nice crackling creek instead I'm
 restaurants and apartment complexes between Fiori from my house. Not to mention the many parking concerns that have been brought up that I'm definitely going to have to see people parking across the street from me. It bothers me that I
 have severe noise constraints. In the end, it's ultimately, it's just going to hurt my home value. It's going to hurt everyone's home value along Randall Place. I'm from Louisville, Kentucky. I moved from Louisville, Kentucky. We've had plenty of places where we've upgraded.
 old communities where they've added new commercial and the houses that are across the street from the commercial upgrades all lose value, end up having sell off and being torn down to add new commercial.
 There's somebody in the planning committee board who said oh, but you'll probably see an increase of like now I won't maybe some people further back in the community may but I will I will see a significant loss in value after purchasing the house the last year so I
 there's a lot of concerns. There's noise, security, and just overall value of the home. And plus, speaking to the creek, I like walking by it every day with my dog and listening to the little crackle of the stream as it rolls down the rocks and onto Lake Fayetteville. It really bothers me. We need to reconsider and take another look at this plan because I think it was just thrown together to appease the purchase.
 The person who bought the house or the property and just wanted to build his restaurant there and whatever else we could throw in there to make money instead of having a more well thought out plan that helps out the community around it and helps serve us. I mean, we're fine with some place to go to eat and places to shop within walking distance, but it's gotta be well thought out and incorporate us into the project as well, not just whatever is best for the person.
 that's building property anyways my time's up thank you thank you who else would like who else do you have susan have no one else signed up mayor okay so we will open it up to folks that are not signed up correct okay who would like to address this first hi good evening my name is kim coates and i live at 2668 frontier elm i'm very close to the proposed development a couple doors in if we could pull that picture back up from mr weatherton's proposal if that's okay
 I think what he was getting ready to say before his time ran out is that that is that is that okay to do that? Well, you have five minutes anyway Yeah, if we could just pull that picture up real quick that right there. Have we ever allowed people to bring up slides? Is this new? I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. Were you addressing me? I'm addressing staff. Have we allowed people to bring in
 PowerPoints that aren't the applicant before? Well, Sloan, I asked if you all wanted to see the PowerPoint and you all said you did. So that's why I allowed it to occur. If you don't want to see any more power slides, then you all probably need to make some kind of motion in second and end the power slides. I would like to see the PowerPoint presentation. I would too. Well then somebody may- Me too. Hang on just a second. Let me get this all worked out.
 Then somebody needs to make a motion and a second to allow the power slides from the council since we- I move that we allow the power presentation to continue. Second. Okay, I think we've got a motion and a second. So, Kara, would you please call the roll? Hang on, Kim, we'll get this straightened out in a moment. Thank you, sir. For recording purposes, I have Councilmember Jones who made the motion and Councilmember Turk who seconded. Absolutely. Okay. Scroggins? No. Bunch?
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Okay, so that passes, correct, y'all? Yes, Mayor. Okay, so Kim, where would you like to start with? So I get all kinds of time back, is that right? Well, you have five minutes, but have we got where you need to go?
 that slide where you need to be. Yes it is. Okay you have five minutes starting now. Thank you sir. What I think Mr. Weatherton was trying to show with this slide is that the counts for the overflow parking were
 with the restaurant traffic between 60 to 80 to maybe 90 cars in the evening, will push out not only outside the perimeter of the development, but down Frontier Elm, perhaps on both sides of Frontier Elm, as you'll see from the top photograph in the top right corner. Frontier Elm is very narrow if there are cars parked, one illegally, on both sides of the street.
 There isn't room for any emergency access. There isn't room for another car to get through at all.
 If you see from the bottom photograph on Frontier and Alma, people park in the alley. Again, there's no possibility for any emergency access there. The alley is in fact really, really narrow and frankly, I don't know if you guys can see from the rendering of the houses in Lakewood, but some of these poor folks don't have a driveway. The driveways are maybe three feet long.
 So if they have a guest over, if they have workout equipment in their garage, they are parking on the street on Frontier Elm. And if anyone is...
 trying to park in that alley, their garage is going to be blocked entirely. So the concern there is with the overflow parking, but there's also a big concern with the lack of cross-access. If you can see from the north side of the development, the only ingress and egress out of that proposal is onto Randall. You can't really tell from a map, but Randall's very narrow, it's a blind curve,
 And frankly, we're all very, very cautious approaching that curve because we have the street from Frontier Elm,
 accessing Randall, the alleyway, a residential driveway, and then a sharp curve that you can't see around, and then another residential driveway. If all of that is loaded up with parallel parking, the concerns are just going to be elevated. The parallel parking is designed to be right up next to the driveways, so it isn't like someone can see around a parked car as they're trying to come in and out of those drives into the neighborhood.
 And briefly, you know, the idea that this is somehow traffic calming,
 is a concern to all of us. It seems as though what's going on here, frankly, is a way to get more parking outside the development to meet their numbers. The developer needs approximately 150 parking spaces to support this development. There are 96 spaces in the site. So over a third of the developer's parking has to be on street
 Over an overflow parking and that's just I mean we know you know on street parking is allowed But that's just too much to have a third of the of the parking Around a dangerous curve on a street that's being improved with bond money and overflowing into our neighborhood so we would ask that you grant our appeal and Not allow this to move forward in this particular format. Thank you all very much. Thank you. We also like to addresses I
 I'm Nathan Ogden, developer. I represent the Rodriguez family and first of all I would just like to say that they want to be good neighbors. They're here to be good neighbors and I'm sure most of you folks are good papers. And keep your comments to me. They currently have. The, I would like to state that what we're, what has been approved through the city so far is just the south half of the development. So the
 numbers that are coming up with parking for everything, nothing on the north face has been applied for or approved and that's not what's in question today. Everything we've done as a design team and developer has so far we have followed the law and the city statutes, codes, policies and procedures established by this great city to a tee to get where we're at today.
 And the parallel parking was done so to absolutely make more parking spaces. And I would just like to note that the restaurant will be owner occupied so it's counterintuitive for them to build a development that they don't think they can have enough parking places in for the residents and also their customers at the restaurant.
 if there's any concerns about noise from the restaurant the the city has a noise ordinance that anybody in the city has to comply to and abide by so uh that would that should be an issue i would think you know um and i would just like to say we follow the law and i would just ask the city council to uphold the decision of the planning commission thank you thank you who else would like to address this
 Thank you, Mayor and Councilmembers. I'm Archie Schaefer. I live at 2506 East Frontier Elm in the Lakewood addition, and I'm here to speak on behalf of myself as a resident of Lakewood and also on behalf of David and Barbara Pryor, who live on Randall Place, and Barbara Tyson, who lives on Randall Place, who agree with the appeal that the Lakewood property owners have filed. We think that
 This is just an addition that there's an old country saying in Franklin County where I grew up that you create problems when you try to put 10 pounds of sugar in a 5-pound bag, and I think that's what we're trying to do here. We believe that there's simply inadequate parking. It's going to force people to park in our neighborhoods, which is going to create problems for the residents of Lakewood.
 The parallel parking that's been added on Zion, we think is going to be very dangerous and create dangerous travel conditions as well as dangerous parking. And that's why we're here to appeal the planning commission's decision. And we hope that you all will vote to grant our appeal and deny this project moving forward as it is. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 My name is Jesus Rodriguez. I'm speaking on my father's behalf the owner of the property that we're discussing And I just wanted to say a couple things. I'm an aspect of we're here to work with the community and to you know come with something that
 When we first went through this, you know, we went through the way that you're supposed to. You're supposed to follow the law, go through all the, you know, permits and everything. They wouldn't ask neighbors, and nothing was brought up until now about just about finishing with the process, what we feel like. And in all honesty, it's like...
 we want to create something for the community, we want to create something for Fayetteville that they're able to say this is helping the city. We look up north to our neighbors in Bentonville and you know you go to the A Street Market where they have you know this market that's beautiful that is able to provide somewhere for the community retail. They have restaurants, you know they have places where they have a community college in there and these surrounding areas you know the houses that are around have you know
 gain value in that. And you know, from the, you know, being able to just walk outside the door and go to get a coffee or go to get what it be with whoever our tenants are in that building. And for the part of the parking issue, we only want to develop the south part. We haven't, like our developer said, the north part, there's a misunderstanding on the parking situation. They're throwing out numbers that aren't really adequate to what we're talking about.
 the parking that we're going to put in would be certainly enough because the restaurant we currently run holds about 200, I'd say 200 to 220 with employees and customers. The restaurant we're talking about right now is about half that size. It's not going to be something that's going to be, you know, that's going to be filled with people till
 The gills with what we're going through with the pandemic we've had to realize that with the restaurant situation you have to do things a little different we're not just trying to cram as much people as we can. That's why we created a patio on the outside. We also created within the plans we also created seating that's not just going to be everyone back to back or shoulder to shoulder in the restaurant.
 So we're trying to meet the needs of something that's changing our way of living. So that's why with this restaurant, these designs that we're doing and with the housing we're also putting in because with Fayetteville, it's a growing city every day. And from my understanding, it's not going to stop. And what better way would it be to have more people living in this community to realize this is a great city and why it is.
 with what we're trying to put in to the community with the development that we're trying to do that's all thank you thank you who else would like to address this no rick cubion 2620 frontier l in lakewood it seems clear that the developers are trying to address an insufficient number of on-site parking places with on-street parking adjacent to our neighborhood
 And all of the variances that are included here seem to be about maximizing the number of apartments they can squeeze onto the property. And another point brought up earlier concerning bicycles. I ride my bicycle a lot all over town and one of the things that makes me the most nervous
 are people that just wander around on the trail, unaware of their surroundings and what may be coming at them. They just gather on the trail, start talking, and never look up and are completely unaware of their surroundings.
 And I can easily visualize being on my bike going down the trail they're about to put in there on mixed use there on Zion and people getting out of their cars and
 to go to the restaurant and anywhere from two to six people not paying attention to their surroundings. They get out of their cars and wander across the trail that's intended for both pedestrians and bicycles. So someone else bought up bicycles earlier and I ride mine a lot and that
 that potential danger occurred to me. So, thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I'm Teresa Stafford. I live at 2620 East... You can take your mask down if you'd like. I'd rather keep my mask on. All right, very good. Everybody hear me okay? Yes, I can. Thank you. I would like to address what I imagine to be a significant compound to the safety of...
 Randall place that comes off of Crossover and Has a very sharp 90-degree turn Going towards Zion There's heavy traffic now at certain times of the day where people are trying to avoid the light at
 cross over and Zion. So they take Randall and they head west and they zip around out to Zion to avoid the light.
 when we consider adding all of this parking and more traffic and people going in and out of what sounds to be a plan to build an apartment complex but just the non-residential area people coming and going i think that's a serious issue and we're adding
 more cars uh parallel parking on on Randall Place and so I think I asked the council to consider that what's already happening uh with the use of Randall people avoiding a light at crossover and Zion Road thank you thank you who else would like to address us
 Mayor Jordan, before we go to the next person, I just want to let everyone know that I've scanned those documents and emailed them to the city council members regarding that PowerPoint that was provided earlier. Okay. Thank you. How are you doing, Mayor? My name is Alex Rodriguez and I represent my father. And basically what we have planned for that property, you know, Fayetteville is a beautiful city and we wouldn't want to, we wouldn't want to make anything illegal.
 to make it bad or to make it worse or to make our neighbors mad about it you know we want to put something that they'll be proud of you know and our developer he's done many projects you can look into his work he's he's worked around the united states he's well known here in arkansas
 And what we have planned is like my brother said, we want to do shops that you can walk out of your home, you can have a coffee, you can have a juice bar, you know, you could have many things. And like we said, we only have the south side that we're working on right now. The north side hasn't been approved. We haven't applied for anything. I just really want you all to consider what we're trying to do is
 to make Uptown Fayetteville just like Downtown Fayetteville. Not in the aspect of jamming people, but something you're proud of. People like to go and have a meal in Downtown Fayetteville and they're like, oh, let's go to a nice spot. They'll go to Downtown Fayetteville. Well, you can have that in Uptown Fayetteville as well, off of Zion, and we'd like to, because we see the lights, the six foot sidewalks, we want to accommodate that and we want to make it something, not a sore eye, but something you like to see and something you like to go. Thank you.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right. What discussion would the council like to have? This is a resolution. So what discussion or action would the council like to take? I have a couple comments, Mayor. Okay.
 or who who is that if somebody like to speak before me go out go right ahead that was me teresa you go ahead um i just want to say i i um i went out there last week i looked around in the neighborhood i have some serious safety concerns about the kind of the blind turn uh when you go uh from randall place north south to making that
 Turn to the West. It's it's concerning to me. There's the alley that comes in there and then also a driveway. But the turn is blind. And I do think that this is too dense. Parking is going to be a serious issue out there.
 The way that the lakeside development is oriented, there's not a lot of green space. There's not a lot of extra room. Any extra parking is going to be very problematic in that development. And I am also concerned about the stream. Now, the north side has not been before us, but that makes it very difficult. But from what I've seen from the south side...
 I believe this is too dense and I will be supporting the appeal. Okay. I have a question for Jonathan. If we denied the LSIP, what is the developer able to do by right? That's a good question. I think...
 The project would likely have to be resubmitted to planning with addressing the reasons it was denied for. Unlike a rezoning, there aren't any standards in our ordinances that say there has to be a cooling off period, like a year where you'd have to wait to resubmit.
 I think alternatively perhaps the council could deny it or modify the conditions of approval that came with it. If you had an opportunity to see those. It's not something that procedurally happens very often. I'd be happy to hear if Mr. Pennington has any comment on that as well. Not to put him on the spot. I don't have anything to add, Mayor. What? I don't have anything to add to that.
 So let me get this in my head. So the rezoning allows the development, but the rezoning does not allow the parking. That was a variance, correct? No, not necessarily. The variance was to allow the construction, the addition of on-street parking on Zion.
 This project could have been proposed with even less parking and meet our ordinances. As a reminder to the council, Fayetteville does not have parking minimums for non-residential development. So a restaurant, an office and the like does not have to provide any parking. In instances where no parking is required or provided, staff can ask for an analysis of how it's not gonna impact the area.
 In this instance, staff felt that it was adequately met. Additionally, the applicant provided enough parking to meet our residential parking requirements, which are minimums and maximums. So, again, they were required to provide one parking space per bedroom. And so all that said, the parking meets code is the short answer. The proposal to include on-street parking on Zion Parkway.
 was the exception requested by the applicant. Okay, let me rephrase my question. If the parking went away, could the development still occur because it's already zoned a certain way, correct?
 correct yes the proposal would be allowed with their moving the parking outside i wanted to be sure i was understanding blake said what you understand as well yes mayor as long as they stay within the confines of the zoning the development can't occur but the on-street parking could go away correct the council could deny the variances that were requested uh by the applicant
 And, you know, keep in mind the city code is very specific about the reasons that a development can be denied. I don't know if you want me to go through those.
 I think that would be kind of handy right here. Okay, so the City Council has enacted six reasons that a small or large site improvement plan can be denied. That's found in section 166.02 of the Unified Development Code. They are one, the development plan is not submitted in accordance with the requirements of the chapter. B two, the proposed development would violate a city ordinance, a state statute or a federal
 Three, the developer refuses to dedicate the street right-of-way, utility easements, or drainage easements required by this chapter. Four, the proposed development would create or compound a dangerous traffic condition. For the purpose of this section, a dangerous traffic condition shall be construed to mean a traffic condition in which the risk of accidents involving motor vehicles is significant due to factors such as but not limited to high traffic volume, topography, or the nature of the traffic pattern.
 Five, city water and sewer is not readily available. And six, the developer refused to comply with ordinance requirements or conditions of approval for on-site and off-site improvements. And I would note that, you know, those are the minimum requirements established by the code. And the Supreme Court has said that it is arbitrary as a matter of law to deny approval of a plat that meets the standards of the code.
 So, I understand what you're saying. If they stay within the confines of the code, then they're legal, correct? Correct. I would have serious concerns about our ability to deny such a development that meets those standards. But also that would not include
 parking on the street. Correct. The council could change the conditions of approval for those variances. I'm just making sure I've got that all straight in my head here. Okay. Sorry, council. What other questions do we have? I just needed that for myself. Sorry. Go ahead, Mark. Okay. Just looking at this and looking at the property and knowing the neighborhood and knowing the way the street layouts are with the topography,
 With the density and with the topography and with the on-street parking, which is by variance, which I do think is exactly...
 The reason they got they asked for the variance is because they do see a need for the parking. Just because the off street parking goes away doesn't mean the parking problem goes away. In fact, if the off street parking was not approved, it would add more to the hazard of this area than what we have anyway.
 there was a lot of imagining tonight a lot of imagining i imagine this i imagine this but i think again as the uh assistant city attorney said there has to be a compelling reason uh to deny this the only compelling reason that would fit one of the six would be the safety and i do think that is uh
 very clear that it would be hard to arrange entrance, exit, and parking in this area without creating a safety hazard. You know, you can talk about, again, removing the variance, but I don't think that that removes the danger. So I will be supporting the
 appeal. Based on that, I do have concerns with the runoff. I have concerns with the stream. We're trying to protect Lake Fayetteville. That's not why we can do this, but it is a concern. I'm concerned that there is not a compound pedability
 with a neighbor residential neighborhood going into a high density uh area there's not a buffer there's not anything that that takes it from one area to the other and it's it's kind of landlocked there so that you're not going to have an opportunity to do anything but what
 What has been suggested and again, we don't know what's going to be there. I remember very well and I always mentioned this that we were going to have a beautiful pizza high-end restaurant across from the panicle garden and we rezoned it based on some beautiful elevations and it never came to be. But we've got to look at is what is the worst possible case with the zoning that we are faced with tonight.
 There's no guarantee of any of this going through, but the zoning will always stay with the property. So yeah, I cannot, I will support the appeal. So, you know, with the pizza restaurant, we were looking at rezoning the land. It wasn't already rezoned to allow this, and this is already rezoned.
 So, we're talking about the safety of the street. That's the only thing I can see that we can look at on this as far as what we could deny this or approve this appeal on. I have a question for Jonathan. Are the streets in Lakewood public streets or private streets? Public streets and public alleys. Yes.
 Okay, so I mean, you know, theoretically people do park on them now that go to visit there or anyone could park on a public street. Is that correct? That is correct. Okay. You know, I'm just not quite decided on this yet. And it's one o'clock in the morning where I'm at. I'm a little tired right now. But so I'll let somebody else ask some questions.
 Yeah, I guess I'll go ahead and speak if that's okay. I hear from developers a lot of times that they get frustrated on us denying variances because a lot of times they have the right to do something and they ask for variances so that it fits in our 2040 plan better, so that it actually makes things safer and then
 Because people don't want development at all, they say, you know, deny the variances. And a lot of times the variances is really what makes it work, what makes it fits in the 2040 plan. But it just wouldn't work without those. And so those are a needed component. Yeah.
 If we deny this or deny the variances, I mean, I agree that there is some legal issues there because they can basically do this right by right without the variances. And I think the project would be far worse without the variances. The people that are concerned about traffic coming into their neighborhood, well, we're talking about removing another 20 or 30 spots on the traffic. I don't know.
 I think that this is actually a good location for this. I originally thought that this was west of Lakewood, and then I was asked by the people that live in Lakewood to go visit, and I did this morning, drove around, and I was like, oh, good, it's actually on the east side of that, where it's a transition from the athletic club. And I think with the roundabout that's going a little east of this, sorry, west of this,
 And the fact that there's sidewalks with trees in front of the athletic club, that having parallel parking here is going to keep in people's mind that this is not an area to go 50 or 60 miles per hour, that this needs to be slower. So on safety, I think having the parallel parking is safer. And also some of the people that are in Lakewood could actually park in the parallel parking.
 I think sometimes that the overflow may go the other direction. So it's not always one way. I understand people's concern about new stuff. I get that. I don't.
 see the safety issue. And then if we ask the people in the neighborhood what they would want, they don't even want the same thing that's in their neighborhood next to them because the same neighborhood fought an identical neighborhood to the west of them, which is way less than allowed by rights. So I think that this is a reasonable, I will not be approving or voting for the appeal.
 When I consider, you know, the Lakewood subdivision, when it was built, there wasn't, oh, what is that subdivision across the street? There wasn't a whole lot out there. And that's pretty high density for just at the time it was built when there wasn't anything there.
 And I don't really recall that there was any opposition to, I don't remember if there was opposition to that subdivision going in. I'm pretty sure there probably was some because it was different and it was higher density and all of that. I'm just having a...
 I'm having a really hard time finding other than being able to say it might cause an unsafe traffic condition around that sharp corner. I don't necessarily know that having the street parking is going to be as unsafe. When you consider you're going to have a light in one area, a turn lane now, and a roundabout, I think it's going to kind of tone all that down a little bit.
 um i'm still i'm still struggling with this i know i brought this forward but i'm struggling with whether you know what my decision should be on this one okay what other discussion do we have here i'll make a comment um i think there have been some really excellent uh uh comments first and and so so i'll repeat that well try to add some something new
 You know, in this case, it really does seem like a proper procedure was followed. I can't believe you're working up a line. It was a resounding. Matthew, could you maybe turn off your video and we could hear you better? I'll check one, two. That's better. Thank you. Okay.
 One thing I'd like to add, and it really seemed like this applicant followed the proper procedure, whether it's the rezoning or the development plans or the variances or so on and so forth. And the rules that we tried to be really clear about them, and in this case it worked. We got what the rules and what our plans say that we want. It feels to me a little bit like a bait and switch if we were to –
 grant an appeal that reverses such a strong decision from the planning commission and such a strong recommendation from our staff. You know, we have really important reasons that are expressed and memorialized in our comp plan for identifying growth centers. And I don't think we should take it lightly to say
 to overturn decisions like this that are particularly unanimous and just some feelings about how it might turn out. We want those growth centers and we want them to have slow traffic and we wanna make sure that the land doesn't just have parking lots on it. So I can't vote to approve or support the appeal. I need to uphold the planning commissions and the staff recommendation.
 Okay Who else anybody? Okay, well this is a resolution We need a motion in a second to approve the appeal and mayor I'd like to make the motion to approve the appeal. I second it. Okay. We have a motion to approve the appeal Any final comments from the council? I
 I had the opportunity of visiting out there and safety is a concern and I really appreciate how the citizens have come forth to express their concern and.
 I appreciate how the business owners have come out as well and wanting to do something that's going to make Fayetteville nicer, but safety is a concern. I had the opportunity of being there, and I saw exactly what the residents were referring to. Okay. Anybody else?
 All right, Kara, would you please call the roll? A vote in favor. Yes. Did you have something else there?
 No, I was just thinking that, you know, just because we don't vote, you know, if we vote down this appeal, we still have what can go in there without the variances. And I think the variances dramatically improve the possibility of this property. And I'm kind of concerned that this idea that some council members may have that if we take
 Deny. I'm losing my words right now. If we agree with the appeal, then nothing goes in or it won't, you know, it won't be densely developed because that's not necessarily true. And it could be even more, you know, dangerous or present, you know, more adverse situations, you know, conditions than we have with the variances. I think the variances make it safer. Sorry. Yeah.
 I will add one more comment. So there's a street that I'm thinking of specifically in South Fayetteville.
 and it's on 15th Street. If you go from the roundabout and you go west, and there's parallel parking on both sides. It's very dense housing. It's where Razorback and 15th, and I hope you guys know what I'm talking about. There's parallel parking on both sides. I use that street quite a bit so I can avoid MLK,
 And it does make you slow down. And it's actually a little bit curvy, which also helps to slow down people. There's bus stops. And it's actually really, really pleasant. And there is a lot of traffic there. But I'll tell you that, you know, the idea that the...
 The parallel parking is bad, and it's going to make people go faster. I don't know, the opposite is the true, is what I find on 15th Street. Anyways, I just want to kill that myth because I use that street every day and that have parallel parking on both sides, and I'm very careful because there's a lot of students that live in that area.
 So I love the idea that potentially there could be a neighborhood pub there or neighborhood cafe. And I think removing the parking is going to just put more parking into the neighborhood. So that's something that I'm thinking about. I was approached by the neighbors to deny this because.
 They felt like it was too dense. And so I do want to, I didn't realize that the North part had not been approved yet. So what I'm hoping is there could be a conversation, a better conversation with that North part.
 with the neighbors. So Mr. Rodriguez, I would love it if you can get with the neighbors and find out what it is they want there, what is their vision, and have more communication and collaboration. Because the 75 people who signed to be against this
 I, you know, that's a concern for me. I want to hear those 75 people, but I also don't want to add extra parking back over there to me that relieves the parking. So this is a hard one for me because I want the neighbors to know that I support them, but I also have lived in dense areas and no dense areas.
 We have them in Fayetteville that exist that work really well, but it's hard because it's changed, right? So we haven't seen how it works. We don't know. We imagine the worst. So I'm having a hard time deciding which way to vote, but I feel like I want to support the extra parking just to relieve space. So that's all I've got now. Thanks. Okay. Any other final comments?
 Okay, now a vote yes is a vote for the appeal, correct? Yes mayor and that would deny the the large-side improvement plan that has been submitted by mr. Teague and his team Okay. All right care would you please call the roll? Scroggins, no bench no third. Yes Hertzberg. Yes Gutierrez no
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. That's four to four. Mayor, you may vote yes if you wish to pass the resolution. I'm not going to vote. Then the resolution fails. Okay, let's go on to number three.
 an ordinance rezoned that property describing zoning petition rzn 21-064 located at 1287 north 54th street for approximately 12.18 acres from r.a residential agricultural to ri 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre blake
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RI-12, Residential Intermediate, 12 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in West Fayetteville, about two miles west of the Interstate 49 interchange with Weddington, a little bit up there at the farthest north end of 54th Avenue on the north side of Weddington Drive. The property was recently annexed into the city of Fayetteville. As you can see in the map here, the portion that's not shown in green was the area that the council elected to annex recently.
 Upon annexation, it was rezoned to RA, residential agricultural.
 and does include some agricultural and residential buildings and some outbuildings as well on it. The request that came following the annexation, it was to rezone the property from its default RA residential agriculture upon annexation to RI 12, residential intermediate 12 units per acre. This is an appeal of the planning commission's denial of the request.
 This property straddles a somewhat unusual place in terms of existing land uses and existing zoning entitlements. To the west is an existing subdivision, and to the east is a piece of property that was also annexed somewhat recently, early in 2020, at which time it was rezoned to RU, residential intermediate urban, anticipating a mixture of housing types.
 but it is currently still being used agriculturally, similar to the property to the north, which remains in the county, with the properties between this one and Weddington also remain agricultural and zoning and residential use. As a result, it does have a somewhat mixed finding in terms of land use compatibility.
 One unique aspect of it is that there is a planned residential link street in our Master Street plan, which comes in from the east and would, in the future, ideally connect to 54th Avenue and then possibly with development of this site, also connect to Fountain Street further to the west, beginning to create a degree of street grid in the area. We're looking at the requests in terms of our long-range plans and our adopted land use plans.
 Staffers look to the future land use map, which does call this area out as residential neighborhood. That indicates an anticipated or anticipation of a mixed use or mixed diversity of housing types, which the residential intermediate zoning district certainly allow. It allows single, two, three and four family housing all by right.
 Looking at the request in terms of city plan 2040 and its six goals, similar to land use compatibility, the request is not fully consistent with those goals. This is a difficult part of the city. I think the council and commission and staff have often wrestled with what is appropriate and what is not.
 There are a large number of services and amenities along Weddington. Most of those, however, are further to the east as you get near Weddington and Salem at the interchange. And as you head further west towards this area, it is beginning to extend a little bit further beyond the feasible area to walk and more readily get to the services. This is reflected in the infill.
 The infill attributes for the property. This includes it is doesn't include many of these. It is near the fire station on Ruple. It does have access to water and sewer through the subdivisions of the West. It does have access to Munder Park also in that subdivision. And there is trail along the north side of Weddington.
 That said, some other conditions or issues that staff considered with the request were particularly 54th Avenue, which is a fairly unimproved road. It's very narrow. It's basically as it was when we inherited it from the county when the overall area was annexed. So this is a concern and something that would need to be upgraded as a part of any development of the property, and it is worth noting that right now there is a proposal for the construction
 the cobblestone property, cobblestone farms property to the east where they do anticipate improving that frontage to some extent heading towards this one. And then also the other issue which I touched on earlier is the constant philosophical discussion
 about whether you're creating density without services or density before services. And it's a chicken and egg conversation of, of course you need residential uses to attract non-residential services. But at what point are you just creating basically a dense sprawl that's having negative impacts?
 With all that said, staff was fairly mixed on our findings, but ultimately came down to support of the request. The Planning Commission was similarly conflicted. If you had a chance to look at their minutes or anything like that, you saw that they went back and forth in their dialogue before ultimately voting to deny the request six to one.
 Those supporting the denial did speak to concerns that this was not appropriate as infill and that if anything, it was contributing to sprawl. The low dissenting vote did feel that it was important to support this request in order to promote some more diverse housing along Weddington. To date, staff has not received any public comment on the request and I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Okay. Is the applicant...
 Would they like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. There is an applicant, correct? Yes, Mayor. J.R. Carroll, legal counsel for the applicant. As the staff noted, they did approve this project. You have 10 minutes. I won't need it. Okay.
 If it would be too much trouble, I had an exhibit attached to the... Well, okay, before we do any exhibits, I need a motion from the council and a second to allow the exhibits. And if we allow the exhibit? Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to allow an exhibit. Kerr, would you please call the roll? I've got a question first. I thought applicants were basically always allowed exhibits.
 With without a bow. Okay fine. Go ahead and show me your exhibit. It's the exhibit attached to the appeal letter So you probably already have it in your package Thank you. If you could post it, that'd be great Super One of the one of the reasons why the staff recommended this is for the simple purpose of this is a narrow strip of property um
 It's okay. Yeah, we were just trying to decide who had the exhibit. We'll get it for you. Okay, no problem. It's a narrow strip of property that's in between 60 acres of either RI-12 or RU, which is basically the highest density that you can go. And quite honestly,
 It's unlawful under Arkansas law to have what's considered spot or down zoning. And if it when it comes up, you'll see you have 20 acres on of RU on one piece of property. And then to the other side of the piece of property, you have R.I. 12, which amounts to 40 acres.
 So if the city were to not allow RI-12 and would require a less dense zoning, it would be a classic example of down zoning which is not allowed under Arkansas law. You have RU, if you didn't allow R-12, it would drop down, and then right next to it you would go back up for another 40 acres and go to RI-12.
 The RI-12 was rezoned 18 years ago. RU was rezoned last year. And I think that the principles show that at least in this area, there is a history by the city that they approve this type of zoning. As you also note from the staff, there have been zero complaints with regard to this rezoning from anyone in the area.
 i received one phone call from an adjacent property owner and he only asked is this going to be our riu because i do not want riu next to my property i informed it would be ri12 he said fantastic
 You know, literally if you're following the zoning principles, you would expect to see some type of transitioning zoning between the RIU and the R-12, which would be RMF 18, RMF 24, RMF 40. You all constantly get requests for rezoning from RMF 24, RMF 40 to RU because they want something more dense.
 The applicant has chose not to do transition zoning, but to basically do the minimum, which is the exact same zoning, which is the 40 acres right next to it. I will also note that plans have been submitted with regard to the R.I.U. and the R.I.U. is extremely dense and the City Council needs to ask itself,
 what is going to be developed next to that R.I.U. And as to the infill score, if you look on the map, the property next to it has also already designed, already been zoned for community services. So when that project gets built, not only is the infill score going to rocket up because of the density of it, but also part of that R.I.U. is the same property owner as the community services.
 So the services are going to come along with that RIU project. And as staff already noted, as part of that RIU project, 54th Street's going to be developed and maintained.
 With all that said, I will take any questions that anyone from the council may have. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or staff? So it sounds like that it's going to create connections between neighborhoods, right? Correct. Okay. And it would be zoned exactly the same way that the zoning to the west is.
 So that would allow...
 citizens to have an alternate route to 51st Street and then to Mount Comfort when Weddington is backed up because it often is. Correct. And that's part of the staff mentioned that that's part of by enhancing because this was in the county until last month. And by annexing this piece of property into the county, it allows the city to make those connections that are on its master street plan. Thank you. Anything else? Yes.
 Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic, which is the appeal. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those that are on Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Okay.
 No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Who in the council chamber would like to speak to this issue? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, by the way. It's on the first reading. And so what discussion and action does the council want to take? I make the motion that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second? Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Gutierrez. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-064, located at 1287 North 54th Street for approximately 12.18 acres from RA, residential agricultural, to RI-12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre. I would like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I have a question before we, could you hold off for just a moment, Councilmember Jones?
 Thank you. Blake, the applicant spoke to Arkansas law about not allowing down zoning or denying the zoning type when there was adjacent properties next door that had that zoning type or higher density. Could you enlighten us on those statements, if that's accurate or not? Sure. So, yeah.
 Yes, the Supreme Court has said that spot zoning is illegal. I would not say that this is a down zone. Our code provides that when property is annexed into the city, it is zoned RA, and it is up to the City Council whether that property gets rezoned. There are factors that you need to consider when you are considering a rezoning. The primary factor is compatibility with adjacent zones.
 And as far as spot zoning is concerned, if you were to leave it RA, I don't believe that that would be spot zoning because you have RA to the northeast and also to the south between this property and Weddington. But it is certainly, you know, the RI-12 is certainly compatible with the property to the west and the property to the east.
 So I think you do have discretion and if this was challenged in court the Standard the court would look at is whether your decision was arbitrary and capricious Thank you so much Well, what would y'all like to do I Would like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Second we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final reason care which police call the roll Scroggins yes bench. Oh
 Yes. Dirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-064 located at 1287 North 54th Street for approximately 12.18 acres from RA, residential agricultural, to RI-12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move on to number four.
 An ordinance to rezone that property, inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 21-065, located at 481 South Happy Hollow Road for approximately 0.51 acres.
 From RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre to RSF18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Collect. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre. Collect.
 to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre. Section two that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Okay, Jonathan.
 thank you mayor this property is getting towards the southeast part of town it's on the southeast slope of mount sequoia coming north off the intersection of happy hollow and huntsville road more specifically and as you can see in the aerial image here it's on the northwest corner of happy hollow road fifth street
 The property is currently developed with a single family home that slopes somewhat gradually from the northwest corner to the southeast corner. However, unlike other parts of Sequoia, this one is not within the hilltop hillside overlay district.
 The request before the council tonight is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RSF18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. The land uses in the area are largely residential once you get away from Huntsville Road and Happy Hollow. That said, there are some varying lot widths and lot sizes.
 Also, as you can see on the zoning map here, there's also instances of some non-single family homes in the area. It's not suggesting there. It's showing that there is a mixture of housing types in fairly close proximity. But by and large, it is single family in nature. Accordingly, staff does find the request to be consistent or compatible from a land use perspective.
 From a land use plan perspective, staff finds it to be similarly compatible. It is designated as a residential neighborhood area, although RSF 18 does not allow a by right, a mixture of housing types that is purely single family and allowance. It does allow a fair amount of flexibility of lot sizes down to 35 feet in width.
 and even allow some other homes to be built with a zero lot line to allow an arrangement where they can have a wider side yard in some instances
 When it comes to City Plan 2040, staff did find this to be an appropriate info location. There are increasing amounts of services and amenities located in fairly close proximity. There is transit in the wider area, and as one of the public members have noted, there is a bus stop in this area and Happy Hollow is just down the slope a little bit further to the east.
 The infill matrix for the property does indicate several attributes that do contribute to appropriate infill, although not a lot. Again, Happy Hollow Elementary is to the east. There's an Ozark Regional Transit bus stop further to the south. Of course, Sequoia Woods is nearby, easily accessible. There's water and sewer access, and fire service is provided by the nearby Happy Hollow Station immediately to the south.
 As a little bit of background on the request, it originally came to the city as a request to RIEU, Residential Intermediate Urban. Staff did have some concerns about this and the Planning Commission shared those. Ultimately the applicant requested that the item be tabled and they came back with the request before you tonight, which is RSF 18.
 And as for public comment, I do appreciate Council Member Turk brought up at agenda session that she felt that some of the public comment was underrepresented. And I did have an opportunity to go back through and actually speak with at least one of the neighbors in person. And it does appear that two pieces of public comments did not get included in your report, which were sent out today. Part of that was.
 Not trying to make an excuse, part of that was a result of one coming in after the planning commission meeting had already ended. Also another that came in between the requests, but either way I apologize for not having this to you with the staff report. And just to have those included in the record,
 One was from Alex Marino who lives along Happy Hollow Road. He expresses himself as a proponent of infill, but he does have concerns about the potential of the density on the project. He would advocate no more than four single family homes or two duplexes, basically four units on the property. Also had concerns about the impact potentially of the development of the tree canopy as there are some larger trees on the property and some that...
 He's seen taken down in the neighborhood that they give him cause for concern.
 uh also and as the council hears on a lot of properties on slopes there are some concerns from alex marino about drainage as well not all of this area has curb and gutter while fifth street does have curb and gutter on both the north and south sides of the street happy holler road does not have curb and gutter on its east side it's just an open ditch there that was exposing some concern for
 for that resident. A second resident, Crystal Johnson, was another one that submitted to you that we were not able to get to you.
 She had expressed a preference to keep the neighborhood single family in character and had concerns also about flooding. She also shared that there was a bus stop in the area and was worried that if there was too much additional traffic, it could pose a risk to the children waiting for the buses. And she did describe some of the cut-through traffic that she's experienced coming from the Cliffs Apartments to the north.
 And with that, there were some other public comments. Those were able to make it to the packet. They were largely on the same theme. A lot of concerns about too much density, negative impacts associated with drainage in particular, and potentially adverse amounts of increased traffic. All that said,
 Staff does recommend in favor of the request, that is the revised request to RSF 18. The Planning Commission concurred and forwarded it to the council by unanimous vote of seven to zero. Ultimately they felt in considering everything and hearing the applicant's comments about how they would like to lay out the site,
 that it appropriately the the current request encourages uh appropriate site design um i'll certainly defer to the applicant to speak to it more but generally uh this is similar to request a request the council saw on saying where the rezoning request is more about being able to orient all of the properties facing one street having one driveway serve all of them more than necessarily trying to
 have all the, or having to maximize the site with its density allowance. With that said, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Do we have an applicant or? Mayor, I believe the applicant is Jay Young. I believe he's attendance virtually, sir. Okay, would the applicant like to speak? I see Alan Young's hand is raised. Hello. Are you the applicant?
 This is Jay Young with Development Consultants. I am the representative for the developer. Can you hear me? Yes, you have 10 minutes. All right, very good. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and council members. With your permission, Mr. Mayor, I do have some slides that I've prepared that I would like to show that gives an idea of the type of development that we're wanting to do and steps we're taking to move forward. Yeah, go ahead and show them. This seems to be the evening for it.
 Okay, so as Jonathan had mentioned, you know, we approached the city and talked about what the owner's intent was. The owner would like to build four units on this property, four single family residential units. They've done similar development on MLK in Fayetteville and had some success with it and thought this to be an appropriate site.
 The existing zoning of that property is RSF4, you know, would not allow that. In fact, once we dedicate the right-of-way for the master plan on Happy Hollow Road and East Fifth Street, we're left with less than, slightly less than a half acre of land. And in an RSF4 zone with less than a half acre of land, we would only be allowed one, potentially two units on there.
 So we, upon review with staff, it seemed like RAU was appropriate for the type of development, and we pursued that.
 Upon hearing concerns about the, you know, what if this developer doesn't do what they say they do and RAU will allow unlimited density. And so there was a lot of negativity to that. So, again, we met with staff and it appeared that RSF 18 to be the most appropriate zone for my client to do the development he wants to do.
 It allows the lot sizes and the configuration that he desires that we also think is a good fit for the neighborhood. This first slide here shows the proposed four lots superimposed over the existing survey. If you could please go to the next slide. This shows with the survey removed.
 Just the configuration of the lot. So what I'd like to point out is on the west side of the property, we have a 25 foot dedicated access and utility easement. That is going to be the only access for all four units. So we will not have driveways and vehicles parked along Happy Hollow Road or entering and leaving Happy Hollow Road.
 Uh, where there's been a lot of concern by the neighbors and staff about about traffic and and discussion of kids going to the bus down the street. They will only be entering and leaving through that one entry point on the West side of the property off of 5th Ave 5th St. Next slide, please.
 This is an architectural elevation view of the type of structures that this owner wants to build. They're a couple stories tall. They do have an attached garage on the back.
 What's shown on here as a siding material, there's wood grain type material on part of the building. And then the other one that says stucco is actually going to be buried. All four of these units are going to be buried in material and colors that they stand apart from each other. They're going to use wood, brick, stucco, wood.
 and some hardy board type materials on these buildings. Next slide, please.
 This slide here and the one to follow is an idea of what these structures will look like. This is a very similar floor plan of building. These buildings were just completed on MLK. And the difference being on these buildings, you see that they have a shared drive between them, and they've got side-loaded garages.
 where our buildings will this will be the front of the building but the back of the building is where the vehicles will enter and there will not be a paid drive between the buildings so it'll be a little bit cleaner and a more pleasant view from the front
 So those are the slides that I've got and a little bit of a discussion of what we're doing moving forward. I do realize that this is a vote for zoning, which is why these materials really weren't in the packet before because the development of the property, the split of the property, all that follows the zoning.
 But listening to the concerns and the what-if scenarios and that, I thought that it would be appropriate to let the neighbors and staff and yourself understand the vision of the owner. And also so you all understand, he's already engaged us. We've already submitted the property line adjustment plan or the lot split plan to the city. It is...
 on their desk now waiting for tonight's vote. And then once the zoning is approved, then they will review that lot split for approval. He's already engaged in architect and he's designed the buildings. And so, you know, we are not going to pursue trying to do a higher density or change our mind after a vote tonight. We're already quite a ways along trying to get this to be developed as we would envision it.
 So with that, I'll turn it back over to you guys and I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have. Okay, what questions do we have for the staff or the applicant from the city council? Mayor, if I may, I have a procedural comment to make, if I may please.
 Yeah. I just wanted to share, I meant to include this in my presentation. I apologize for not doing so. I wanted to point out, if you'll see here, this is Exhibit A from the packet. When the applicant's amended change or amended request changed, we did not note that on Exhibit A that it was supposed to be RSF18 instead of RIU. So as the council moves forward with this request, if you'd like to consider the amended one.
 Please substitute this exhibit A I'm showing here with RSF 18 noted on it. I'll get that to the city clerk right now. I apologize for that oversight. So let me get this straight. We got to change what we were presented to something else, right?
 What was presented was correct. The Exhibit A that staff and I included in the packet still noted the previous request prior to the applicant's request to amend it. So this would amend Exhibit A to reflect what the Planning Commission considered, what staff is supporting.
 Okay, so we need an amendment, right? Yes, Mayor. So when it comes back to the council for discussion, I would suggest making a motion first to replace the Exhibit A in the packet with the corrected version. All right. We need a motion and a second to do that. I move we replace Exhibit A. I second. All right. We have a motion and a second to replace Exhibit A. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Terk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Petty. The motion passes. Thank you. Okay. Now, what questions do we have for the applicant or the staff from the City Council? Everybody good? All right. Let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic, which is a rezoning. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then everyone inside the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Susanna Brennan. Okay, go ahead.
 Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Susanna Brennan, I live at 528 Happy Hollow Road, Caddy Corner from this property.
 Hi, if I may, Mayor Jordan, I'd like to ask Ms. Coniston to show the slides, three slides that will show so we can get a vision of this corner property while I talk. Is that all right? I'm sorry, I'm not getting any of that. Participant asked if she could show a slide while she talks.
 Yes. I'm going to put this before the council. Would the council like to allow a slide? Mayor, I would like to allow the slides. I'm not sure who has a slide. Do what? We don't have a slide from this participant. We don't have a slide. I have those available, Mayor. Okay. If the council would like to see them. Lay those slides on us. I'm in the mood for slides tonight. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, ma'am, your time starts right now. Thank you. So this is Happy Hollow Road to the right. It's going north. You see down at the left side the corner. So this is the corner lot. The traffic on Happy Hollow Road is an average of 45 miles an hour. Can you hear me all right now, by the way? Yes, we can hear you.
 Thank you. The Transportation Department told me that about eight years ago when they put the speed tables on Happy Hollow, that in a 25-mile zone from this little country road that used to be Happy Hollow, used to be, the folks speed along at 45 miles an hour.
 It is very dangerous backing out into Happy Hollow, so it's really good that the developer is not doing what it used to be on this house. They have it rear-loaded the driveway onto Fifth Street around the corner. So that's good. And by the way, I appreciate seeing the developer's designs. That helps us a lot.
 So there is quite a bit of traffic on Happy Hollow, especially at Ruck or Shower. There is no parking at all on Happy Hollow. As you heard, there's no curb on the bottom left corner. That's the east side of Happy Hollow. There is a curb and a sidewalk, which you can just barely see on the west side of Happy Hollow. So there is absolutely no street parking there.
 I didn't hear the developer say if the parking, well now I guess, excuse me, I am in that he did say there would be parking areas. So there should not be any on-street parking except for visitors. And so we don't know about that. But we are quite concerned about the street being very narrow. And there's no parking, of course, right at the corner.
 and I'll show you the corner in just a second. Right behind where I was standing to take this photo, there's a water main that breaks about every year, couple of years. I'm told by planning that there's another water main that the developer can use on Fifth Street. So would you show the next slide, please?
 So this is the corner looking north, that's Happy Hollow, and the street going to the left. Right there at the corner you see a stormwater drain, but it might as well not be there. It's totally stuck. No water ever goes down it. And so we're hoping something can be done about that. The rainwater comes across and fills our yards. It's flooded when it rains heavy.
 So this is where there cannot be any parking, obviously. And this is an even narrower street than Happy Hollow. We are concerned about visitors parking and maybe the developer can speak to that. This is a beautiful redwood tree right on the corner and we assume under RSF 18 it will be taken down. And you see the other trees that are kind of yellow looking in the sunlight.
 are very old, big trees that you shade to the street, and we'd be very sorry to lose those. But I have a feeling we would under RSF 18. The Planning Commission went back and forth between RSF 8 instead of RSF 4, which it is now,
 and RSF 18, they felt that on the half acre, nine units would be too much, but three would be too few. So I'm understanding now from Jonathan and Ryan that there can be four units, and that's what the developer just now said. So that's something we were waiting for, so it's good to hear that.
 Would you show the next slide, please? So this is streets going back behind us, and that is where I believe the driveway would be. And unfortunately, that's also right where the school bus is. And Crystal Johnson's comment was about her children waiting right there for the school bus. So cars coming in and out of that driveway in the morning.
 would obviously be a problem for the children waiting there. So we're wondering what can be done about that. Emergency vehicles on this street, getting through if there was any emergency at all, if there was any parking on the street at all, it would be impassable. So there are just quite a few issues that have to do with more density. And then we finally want to...
 to or I finally want to speak to the compatible design and those are nice looking buildings. I recognize those buildings on MLK Huntsville Road. They're quite different from the neighborhood. So we're not exactly compatible, but they're good looking. We feel that...
 If the issues are too like storm water drain not working. Time, time, everybody gets five minutes. Thank you. Okay, who's next? Alina Kelly. Okay, go ahead. Can y'all hear? Yes.
 Okay, good evening. My name is Veronica Huff and me and my partner, Lena Kelly, we own the property 455 South Happy Hollow and it's connected to the property that's being rezoned and also there's a lot behind it that's potentially a part of this. It's not a property yet, but it's 3.3 anchor. Anyway, we don't approve
 the style of the homes and the rezoning like we heard that it was four units and up to 18 um i asked that y'all allowed to stay whether it be like a complex or a single family home um so it matches with the neighborhood and the atmosphere and aesthetic um and the neighborhood and the residential area um
 I've seen some of these developments that this, the developer has created, especially in the historic black neighborhoods. And, you know, if I like the style of the homes, but they don't quite fit with the atmosphere in these areas and they don't necessarily flow with the neighborhood. So, you know, more of a,
 Modern century duplex or single family style home that flows more in that area, keeps the traffic low. There's a lot of children in the neighborhood and wildlife, the mature trees. I expect you listen to the public and not allow large units and all these townhomes that just are plopped there. They don't really fit with the neighborhoods and let the public, you know, please listen to the public and people in the neighborhoods.
 I believe that's all. And hold on, Alina's here. Okay, so I was teaching, so I didn't know if I was going to be able to make this, but I just got done. So, see, I've got a minute left. I know this is unrelated, but I feel like it's related in a way, but...
 So the lot behind that is unrelated to the current thing we're talking about is 3.3 acres. I had reached out when I found out that it was for sale, seeking if I could buy a portion of it just to retain some of the woods behind our property. Because when we purchased this, you know, it's an acre. The idea was that, you know, there's not many homes around. We have, you know, these mature trees and, you know, not just congestion of development. And so what are the implications if we allow up to 18 units?
 what are the implications for this lot then that's going to be behind our property? It's, you know, we're going to be completely surrounded by the potential for significant development, which is not what...
 It has been when we purchased this, you know, we're planning on building on it in a few years. We're wanting to build a property that also includes, you know, residents for my mom and my sister to be there or within the same household, but kind of enough space. Anyway, we just urge you to consider limitations on that. And, you know, even though the developer may be saying 40 units, what are the implications of allowing that flexibility of up to 18? That's just concerning. Yeah.
 Thank you all. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Who else do we have? We have no one else on Zoom to raise their hand. Do we have anybody in the chamber that would like to speak to us about the rezoning? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. So what action or what discussion would the council like to have?
 Mayor, I would, this was my oversight. I wish that I'd requested this at agenda session, but I think a tour in this neighborhood would be really helpful for us to get the scale down and to understand.
 if this is compatible with the current style and massing within the neighborhood. And so I would just ask that we hold this or at least not make a final decision today and maybe have a tour next week if my colleagues were interested in actually visiting this site. Well, I think that would be the council members from that ward. That's in yours, isn't it, DeAndre? Yes, sir. Okay.
 So what's your thought? Yes, I totally support that. Okay. Well, shall we just hold it right here until we have a tour then next week sometime? Okay, let's move along to number five. All right.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-067 located at 4143 North Shallow Drive for approximately 7.42 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to CS Community Services. Blake.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C2, Thoroughfare Commercial, to CS, Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section
 Okay, Jonathan.
 thank you mayor this property is in north fayetteville as you can see in the aerial image here it's just about the northernmost extent of the city that is the northwest arkansas mall immediately abutting this property to the north it may also be recognizable as the former location of the hooters restaurant which is on the easternmost extent of the property along shiloh drive which is the property's only current uh public street access
 Georgetown Square Drive to the south is a private drive as it exists today. The remaining of the property outside the former restaurant and its parking lot are undeveloped. They are crisscrossed by a few utilities today, including the main sanitary sewer line that serves the Arkansas Mall. The request before the council is to rezone the property from C2 thoroughfare commercial to CS community services.
 Staff finds the request to be very compatible with the surrounding land uses in the area. The C2 zoning district is just about our most intense commercial zoning district. CES allows a step below that in terms of non-residential uses, but also interjects some residential uses that can be complementary to and supportive of non-residential uses.
 As you can see in the larger one-mile map of this, which is indicated by the black circle outline of a circle there, this area is abundant in services and retail and restaurants, but it is distinctly lacking in residential uses, which could afford residents to live in the area and be within walkable distances or even if they are vehicle-dependent, shorter driving distances from their daily needs.
 From a long-term plan perspective, staff finds the request to be similarly consistent with our goals. This area is designated in our future land use map as an urban center area. That's anticipated to be our most intense and dense development areas. Similarly, in City Plan 2040, this is the kind of area that allows appropriate infill.
 by putting residents where our services are. We usually struggle to find things going the other direction, where we're putting services near our residents who are often very far from them. The property is already, or can already access existing infrastructure. Again, it accesses Shiloh, Georgetown Square, despite being a private drive, can be used to access Shiloh or Mall to the West.
 It has water and sewer. It can readily access the wider trail system through the Northwest Arkansas Mall parking lot to the northwest, both Ozark Regional Transit and Razorback Transit service area. And it is an area in our 71B corridor plan where we would like to see more residences, again, to leverage all the existing services that currently many people do have to drive to reach today.
 That said, a concern was brought up, well, I guess I brought up the concern in agenda session that was expressed by neighboring business owner. And Council Member Turk asked that I elaborate more on that.
 The neighboring business owner to the south had concerns. They expressed they were unequivocally in favor of the request, but they did want to ensure that they weren't going to be at a loss for water sewer service during the construction. I did reach back out to our utilities department, and they did confirm they've been working with the developer, although we've not seen a detailed utility plan at this point, which is not unusual given it's a rezoning request. They had outlines, our basic procedure,
 uh where we uh the requirement is that you that's if a utility line is to be moved or shifted or vacated a new one has to be brought back online tested and accepted by the city before an existing one is taken out of service so our utility department representatives felt confident that there were enough protections for that property owner to not pose any concern
 Sorry, I should have pulled that up a moment ago. This is a map. I described the utilities crisscrossing the site. The tenants who remain, I think, running north-south through the middle of the property is the one that concerns our utility department the most. That's the main sanitary line for the Northwest Arkansas Mall. And I believe it was the property owner here south of the existing, our former restaurant, was concerned about his access to a water line.
 Both of those have been considered by our Utilities Department and they're prepared to work with the developer to make sure those are accounted for once detailed plans are submitted.
 And with that, staff is in favor of the request. The Planning Commission concurred, forwarding it unanimously and recommending approval by the Council. The general consensus by the Commissioners was that the request is complementary to surrounding uses and there was a lot of hope that this would be a catalyst to redevelop a lot of the underutilized properties, particularly surface parking lots in the area to afford more opportunities for housing.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions from the council. And again, the only public comment we've received to date was that neighboring business owner. Thanks. Oh, and I'm sorry, I believe Robert Goldtraman is the applicant on this one, but I'm not sure if he's in person or online. Yes, please. Would you like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Hi, my name is Rob Goulterman. I'm president of DCM Group and I'm also owner of RGMS Investments, which is the applicant for the site. Yeah, I just wanted to reiterate, obviously, the main intent here is the entire site's under C2. The main intent of going to CS is to include residential housing there.
 Um, we view that the site's been underutilized for multiple years. The one parcel of land has never been developed, which is the large field. And then the Hooters building is obviously dilapidated at this point. And we would like to obviously demo it as soon as possible for another retail building that we potentially have in place going there. And then we have.
 hopefully if staff approves it, we have residential units that would be going in the back side as well. And the other thing I just want to address since it was brought up, the gentleman that did give comment, um,
 the last time we were here for the PNZ meeting last month, we've been in dialogue with him, we've emailed with him, we talked to him after the meeting as well, and he is for the development. And then staff will also see in our plan, utilities were brought up, but we've actually come up with a design that will not disrupt anything when it comes to the utilities when it comes to relocation or anything of that as well. So I think everyone will be happy with the plan that we have in place if this zoning does reoccur.
 um and if you have any questions i'm here in person thank you okay what questions do we have from the council to the staff or the applicant okay well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and those that are participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person in the chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one. Okay. Is there anyone here in the chamber that would like to speak to this item? Alrighty. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a rezoning. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What action
 our discussion would the council like to take or have i think that this uh reasonably rezoning can only make this area better um it would be great if we had a residential here maybe kind of save them all people could walk there and use the restaurants or maybe there'll be a new restaurant here so i'll be in complete support of this well i've got to get it through the readings too so
 What other action items or discussion would the council like to have? I move we suspend the rules and go to this next reading, the second reading. Second. Thank you all. We have a motion to second, go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-067 located at 4143 north shiloh drive for approximately 7.42 acres from c2 thoroughfare commercial to cs community services and so spend rolls and go to third rate second we have a motion to say and go third and final read care would you please call the rough scroggin yes bench yes turd
 Yes. Herzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-067 located at 4143 North Shallow Drive for approximately 7.42 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to CS Community Services. What final comments do we have in the council? All right. Kerwood, would you please call the roll? Scroggin?
 Fudge? Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. Let's see, number six.
 An ordinance rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-069 located at 1471 South Shiloh Drive for approximately 2.09 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services.
 Like be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section one that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from our a residential agricultural to CS community services section two that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 John. Go ahead, John. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry, I didn't get my screen shared there. This is, I think as I put it out in the agenda session, about the furthest opposite end of Shiloh Drive, as you could possibly be in Fayetteville from the last item. We are now down south of the I-49 interchange in Markleford King. If you're familiar with the satellite emergency room property that was developed previously where Clarion Inn was, this is immediately south of that
 The property is currently undeveloped.
 It is fairly sloped going up from Shiloh Drive to the northwest. There is a private drive, as you can see on the aerial here, labeled as Brute Lane. It's not a public street. It is a private drive serving some residences that are further up the hill above this property. Otherwise it fronts Shiloh Drive. That's the only public street access. And beyond that's the interstate and then large areas of student housing to the east.
 Looking at it from a request before the city council tonight as a mayor and Mr. Pennington noted is to rezone the property from RA residential agricultural to CS community services.
 From a land use perspective, this property is something somewhat on a border between areas of the city that are developed fairly intensely. Again, those areas east of the interstate with large amounts of housing and again, that satellite emergency room, the services along MLK immediately segueing to the south, the areas of very low intensity and very low demand.
 very much a more rural state of things. As you can see here, one of the, as I noted, the slope on the side is also mirrored by some significant hillside hilltop overlay district application on the property, extending all the way to Shiloh Drive, parts of the site.
 And sorry, doubling back on that, looking at it from a land use or compatibility perspective, this gives some mixed findings between the properties, the north and the south. Again it is, to use or not overuse the word, hopefully this meeting, it's kind of straddling two different types of development in the city. It's definitely more of an edge property.
 This is reflected also in the city's long-range plans. The very northernmost portion of the property is designated as urban center area in our future land use plan. Again, to remind you, as noted in the last item, urban center areas are intended to be very high intensity and density. This is completely juxtaposed with the southern reaches of the property, which our future land use map shows as a natural area.
 which is intended to be left in as natural a state as possible or to be conserved where possible.
 somewhat mixing those two land uses is reflected in the infill score makes it a somewhat even more mixed consideration the property does have access to water and sewer finger park is not too far away similarly there's trail access in the area as well the fire department on Hollywood provides adequate response times
 Groceries are available at both the nearby Walmart, Aldi, albeit further west along MLK, Ramey Jr. High is to the northeast, again, though it is on the other side of the interstate, and Razorback Transit serves the nearby area.
 Other considerations with the property, one I've already mentioned a couple times, is the topography of the site. When looking at this in terms of the request, staff feels that a zoning district that mandates a build-to zone is certainly more appropriate here. The flattest portions of the property are those next to Shiloh Drive.
 The CS zoning district does require that for as buildings to be located towards the street, hopefully reducing the amount of cut or grading that would be necessary on that hill. Another consideration and a very significant one from staff's perspective is that the Arkansas Department of Transportation has proposed an overpass for 15th Street to connect Shiloh Drive back to 15th Street.
 If you've not had a chance to see these plans, this is one of the more recent iterations. I believe it's not the most recent one though, but this definitely gets the themes. We connect 15th Street where it ends today at the Cottages of Hollywood housing on the other side of the interstate, tie into the frontage roads on both sides and create that connecting overpass and a trail system that would run along Shiloh by this property.
 which you can see the subject property here and the bold red triangle northwest of the roundabout, which will represent the west side of the overpass there.
 um in terms of public comment staff has not received a significant amount there were some inquiries leading up to the meeting at the meeting itself someone did speak a resident from a nearby neighborhood expressed that he often liked to bike and walk down shiloh in this area but we didn't want to make sure and hoped and aspired that it would be developed in a sensitive way as he uh felt it looked like a very sensitive hillside from his passing by the site
 That said, with the mixed findings, staff definitely felt that the proposed overpass represented a significant finding in this discussion, perhaps, and did merit reconsidering some of our long-range plans for the property. When our future land use map was created a few years ago, it did not anticipate such a significant connection that could tie this part of the town with all the housing east of the interstate.
 And ultimately that guided us to recommend approval. The Planning Commission had similar sentiments, feeling that the overpass construction also justified that reconsideration too of some of our longer-range plans. And they forwarded the request to the City Council seven to zero recommending approval. And I'm happy to take questions the Council has. Thank you. What questions do we have for Jonathan?
 Mayor, I have a question. Jonathan, thank you for updating us with the RDoP plans. Are those finalized or are those in development? Or how sure can we be that they actually are going to build an overpass here and a couple of roundabouts? And then finally, what year would you anticipate something like that being built?
 certainly that's a great question the council or the planning commission asked something similar if it was going to have such a bearing on the conversation in talking to our city engineer he shared that it was in the work plan for rdot which is basically his confirmation as much as can be offered that it will happen however the exact timeline of it is not as assured my understanding is the earliest would be mid to late 2022 before it would begin
 Okay, so that's relatively soon. It's not 10 years out. It's two or three years out. Okay, thank you very much for that. Teresa, I've been working on this project for quite a while, so we're moving that along as quickly as we can. The double roundabout is going to open up that whole south end area.
 in many, many different ways. I mean, for one thing, it will address a lot of that four-way stop business we've got down there by the railroad track. And it will promote better access to the hospital we have down there. It will also give us better access to our regional park that we have down on the other end. And it's a, you know, it will, we're gonna be close to the trail system, so
 gives another way into the regional park. So there's a lot of different, it's a lot of different things going on with this one particular project. And Mayor, I don't see the applicant's name online. I'm not sure if they're there in person, but the George Duquesne has been my contact with the group. Yes. Would you like to address the council? You have 10 minutes. George Duquesne here if you have any questions. Okay. Do we have any other questions for the council or for the staff?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the council chamber. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody on Zoom. Okay, do we have anybody in the chamber that would like to address us on this? Yes.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What action or discussion would you like to have? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerry, would you please call the roll? Draw the end. Draw the end. Kerry, I don't think your mic's on. We're trying to advance the reading. Can you hear us, Sloan? Okay.
 I can't. I don't think Kara's mic is on. Yeah. Can you hear me better now? Barely. But I'm a yes. Is that better? I'm a yes. OK. Thanks, Sloan. Here, apparently we are having trouble with your mic. Maybe turn it off and on. I'm not sure. Still having trouble with the mic. I can use my audio to present . But? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-069 located at 1471 south shallow drive for approximately 2.09 acres from ra residential agricultural to cs community services i may push to spin the rules and go to the next reading second final reading we have a second do we have a second second thank you deandre we have a motion a second to go to third and final
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-069 located at 1471 South Shiloh Drive for approximately 2.09 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services.
 any final comments from the council care which please call the role scroggin yes bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes jones yes kenyon yes petty yes thank you council very much in time this is going to be a major project for this city all right number seven
 an ordinance to approve vacation 20-05 property located at 2020 south client avenue to vacate portions of existing street right away and portions of a general utility easement like whereas the city council has the authority under aca 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 And whereas the city council has determined that the following described portions of a street right of way and a general utility easement are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council of the city fable Arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable Arkansas hereby vacates portions of a general utility easement and a street right of way is described in exhibit B attached to the planning department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit A to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Section 3 this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions One the city shall retain a portion of the utility easement along the western boundary of lots 8 through 10 through for overhead electric facilities to serve adjacent property and number two any Relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner slash developers expense Okay, Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is located in South Fayetteville, about halfway between School Avenue to the east and Garland to the west. It represents the southwesternmost corner of the University of Arkansas's Research and Technology Park. The particular right-of-way in question represents the northernmost extents of Klein Avenue, and the utility easement in question borders the remainder of the subdivision.
 To put those in a little bit more clear terms, when looking at the flat of the subdivision, the portion shown here in red represents the utility easement that the applicant is proposing to vacate, and the portion in yellow is the right-of-way proposed to vacate.
 When looking at vacation requests, one of the first considerations staff has is whether it's in the public interest to vacate the property. And one of the most specific parameters or most overriding parameters there is whether it can serve a larger community benefit in terms of connectivity and access
 This right away, being the northern extent of Klein Avenue and all the adjacent properties to it are currently owned by the University of Arkansas, including anywhere that this street could potentially be extended to into the future. With that, staff doesn't see there being any benefit to the public interest to preserve it nor any potential for future connectivity. Additionally, all the franchise utilities within the city have agreed to vacate it.
 And thirdly, as I noted at agenda session, this item was submitted last year, the middle of the year, and there were some delays in getting the
 University's Board of Trustees sign offs and so construction on a building did go forward there and that is currently in place if you happen to visit the property or see that aerial exhibit and with that staff does recommend the approval again we find that the right we doesn't serve a public interest moving into the future and the Planning Commission concurred placing the item on their consent agenda affording it to the council unanimously and I'm available for questions you have
 And I believe Gary Denzer is here as the applicant for the item or possibly I believe Jay Young may also be in it. No, I'm sorry. Yeah, I believe Gary Denzer is the applicant. Excuse me. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Mayor and council, my name is Gary Denzer. I work for Olsen Engineers.
 where the university asked us to submit the application to vacate this street right of way and easement. They own all the property surrounding this portion of the street, and that was where they planned to build their new structural slab. All the existing utilities that were in the utility easement were abandoned.
 there was no longer a need and they ran new utilities in new easements to serve the structural lab and so they just wanted to go through the process to vacate this street right away i'll be glad to answer any questions thank you gary what questions do we have for the staff or the applicant all right let's take some public comment
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those entering the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this? All right.
 So, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Council this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What action would you like to take? What conversation would you like to have? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I second. We have a motion to second go to the second reading. Karen would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terp? Yes.
 Hertzberg yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Petty yes an ordinance to approve the AC 20-05 for property located at 2020 South Cline Avenue to vacate portions of existing street right-of-way and portions of a general utility easement and so and maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading I second motion second to go to the third and final read care which please call the roll
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 20-05 for property located at 2020 South Cline Avenue to vacate portions of existing street right-of-way and portions of a general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. All right, thank you all. It's good seeing you again, Gary. Okay, number eight.
 an ordinance to amend 161.22 community services by removing use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants from permitted uses and adding it to conditional uses
 click whereas on february 2nd 2021 city council approved ordinance 6409 amending the cs community services zoning district to remove use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive through restaurants from permitted uses and to add use unit 18 to conditional uses and we're
 And whereas during the same period, another ordinance was under consideration with a series of exhibits regarding zoning ordinance amendments to add short term rentals. And whereas an exhibit of the short term rentals predated the proposal to shift use unit 18 from a permitted to a conditional use of community services and continued to list use unit 18 as a permitted use and not as a conditional use.
 and whereas staff mistakenly did not update that exhibit following approval of ordinance 6409 so that the city council unintentionally returned use unit 18 as a permitted use rather than as a conditional use for community services by adopting the out-of-date exhibit associated with short-term rentals
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 161.22, Community Services, by removing Unit 18, Gasoline Service Stations and Drive-In Drive-Thru Restaurants from Subsection B1, Permitted Uses, and adding it to Conditional Uses. Okay. Jonathan? Okay.
 thank you mayor uh frankly the ordinance probably explained it just as well as i possibly could uh i'll do it very briefly uh the the walk-on item that did propose moving use unit 18 gas leads gas stations and drive-throughs came through in the midst of the short-term rental conversations at council unfortunately there was an exhibit in the short-term rentals ordinance that was not updated when use unit 18 was moved from a permitted to a conditional use
 so when the short-term rental ordinances were adopted it had the unintended effect of moving you shoot at 18 back to a permitted use so we'd like to undo staff's error i apologize for that and move it back to you see at 18 as council indicated was their preference in february of this year i'm happy to take questions thank you okay what questions do we have for jonathan on this okay let's take some public comment everybody has
 One turn to speak, you have five minute duration, both in seconds of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic.
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. All right. Well, with that, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion would you like to have, or what action would you like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Scroggin yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Eddie yes an ordinance to amend section 161 point 22 community services by removing use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants from permitted uses and adding it to conditional uses
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Terz. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty.
 an ordinance to amend section 161.22 community services by removing use unit 18 gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants from permitted uses and adding it to conditional uses what final comments do we have in the council on this do we want to do an emergency clause to make this immediate because it would have already taken effect by now correct
 I don't know. It would, I think it would be difficult to justify it from a health and safety standpoint, which is what the Supreme Court requires for an emergency clause. So I would, I would say probably not. Okay. Anything else? Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg?
 Jones yes Indian yes heavy yes, okay number nine an ordinance to amend 31.16 Alderman compensation of the city code to allow council members to participate in participant paid dental and vision insurance plans and to receive city paid life insurance of fifteen thousand dollars for
 and the ad and the municipal league insurance uh blake whereas section 31.16 alderman compensation of the city code now authorizes monthly compensation of council members and their participation in the city health insurance plan as a separate class and whereas council members should also be authorized to participate in the employee paid dental and vision insurance plans on the same terms as all participants and whereas
 And whereas council members should also be entitled to receive the municipal league's AD&D coverage paid for by the city and the city paid life insurance in the amount of $15,000. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal subsection A in section 31.16 Alderman compensation and enacts a new title and a new A as follows.
 Section 31.16, City Councilmember Compensation and Benefits. A. Monthly compensation to be paid biweekly to each City Councilmember shall be $1,299.26 without normal regular City subsidized employee benefits, except that Councilmembers shall receive the Municipal League's AD&D coverage and City paid life insurance coverage in the amount of $15,000.00
 and may elect to participate in the city's group dental and group vision plan and the city subsidized health insurance on the same terms as full-time employees and may elect to participate in any other city offered insurance for which they are eligible by paying the full amount of the cost of such supplemental product. Okay, Mark. Well, I brought this forward. It does give a benefit to, uh,
 elected city council members at no cost to the city as far as the elected dental and vision. We currently already have the amount there. It's not changing the amount that we're compensated. So I feel like since it really didn't cost much, that it would at least be a benefit that we could offer to all city council members paid by the city council member.
 Sounds good. What questions do we have for Mark on this? Is the $15,000 life insurance already included? I don't know. Missy is on if we need any comments from HR. We already have a minute. Sorry, the $15,000 is not included. That's being added. Okay, what does that cost the city? It's very nominal. It's $2.40 per month per council member. Okay. We need to forward it.
 All righty, that's what we've got. I'm gonna move that we move forward on this. Let me get some public comment, Mark, and then we'll just move this right along. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. To have five minutes to race and broken into segments of three and two minutes.
 don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in the chamber after that who do we have on zoom susan nobody okay is there anybody in the chamber no all right i'm going to bring it back to the council go ahead mark and make your motion i move that we adopted this as read this ordinance
 I'll take that as a go to the second reading. Is that a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Yes, I believe it is. Okay. Isn't that correct, Mark? That works for me. Okay. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Maybe she's good. Bench? Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. An ordinance to amend section 31.16 Alderman Compensation of the City Code to allow council members to participate in participant paid dental and vision insurance plans and to receive city paid life insurance of $15,000 and the AD&D Municipal League Insurance.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes.
 An ordinance to amend section 31.16 Alderman compensation of the city code to allow council members to participate in participant paid dental and vision insurance plans and to receive city paid life insurance of $15,000 and the AD&D Municipal League insurance. What final comments do we have in the council? Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have, Susan? Mayor, could I make a statement, please? Sure.
 I just want to thank Councilmember Petty for his dedication and service to the city. I've learned a great deal from you, Matthew, and I wish you the best in your new ventures, but thank you so much for your service of 13 years. I know that's a lot of dedication and love for this city. Thank you, Teresa.
 Okay, I would like to make a final statement myself. And as you all know that this will be Matthew Petty's last evening with us as council member, which will be effective October the 25th. But tonight I want to share a few words of appreciation about Matthew's work on behalf of this city. Matthew Petty served this city and represented Ward 2 for nearly 13 years. He and I became a mayor and he became a council member the same year.
 And during that time, he's made many contributions. And I think of all the, I was trying to think of everything that Matthew had done, which is numerous. But a few things that really stood out in my mind was his work on the Civil Rights Ordinance, his work on funding for the mobility and 71B master plans, his work on the COVID health and safety measures, his work on...
 helping with the economic vitality department, his work on expansion of our recycling trash program, his work on climate change and green space protection, his leadership on the A&P Commission, and his advocacy for affordable housing and public transit. He also was instrumental in his support of the city's 2019 bond initiative. There are too many contributions for me to list here tonight.
 but his service over the past 13 years has helped make federal a great place to live and work matthew i want to thank you for your service and your dedication to the people of federal it's been my privilege to work with you on making fed on making this city a better place for everyone thank you again thank you mayor all right we're adjourned thank you all