I would like to call the City Council meeting October the 20th, 2020 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Guterres? Here. Here. Can't hear you. Here. I can hear her. I can hear her. By language, she's here. Marsh? Here. Kenyon? Petty? Scroggin? Present. Budge? Here. Turk? Here. Smith? Here.
 mayor jordan i'm here but uh we need to get them we can hear them though yes we're going to have to get everything working here okay can the council hear me good yes yes we can we need to have them do voice checks or anything
 They can hear us. I can hear them. Right, but they are able to hear that. But this group is having all the way wrong. I understand. Well, we'll have to wait because I've got to hear them. I can't. Would one of the council members just please speak? Testing, one, two, three. Testing, one, two, three. No. No.
 Yes. Yeah, there we go. Let's hear from everybody. Yes. Sarah. Got it. That's in connection. Good, good, good. All right. We're ready to roll. Thank you all. Okay.
 We've called the roll, and now it's time for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay, welcome everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall has closed the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan. I'm President of the Council Chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk, Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Keith Macedo, IT Director. Police Chief Mike Reynolds. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. Two representatives from Federal's IT Department.
 council members city staff and the public are participating online or by phone other than those of us you see before you the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers participation remains of utmost importance to the city of federal and we have provided
 many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting including contacting city council members city clerk's office our city staff prior to the meeting viewing through federal government channel online or the city's YouTube channel joining the zoom conference by phone smartphone tablet our computer
 Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment. I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record.
 public comment shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item They may wish to address being open for public comment Each speaker has one turn to speak each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes Which staff will monitor? amendments may receive public comments only if approved and
 by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned-up person to speak by unanimous consent or by majority vote. So now let us begin. The first item of business we have tonight is a walk-on by Councilmember
 and it reads a resolution except a proposal. Oh, I got, well, let me read it. Proposal by the Federal Advertising Promotion Commission for a series of four outdoor events in the downtown area and provide funding any amount of $20,000 and approve budget adjustments. That will have to be added to the agenda. So I will need a motion and a second to add that to the agenda. So moved. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to add this resolution to the agenda. Tara, would you please call the roll? Guterres? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terz? Yes. Smith? Yes. Mayor, it's been added to the agenda. Let me read the body of it.
 be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby accepts the proposal from the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotion Commission for a series of four outdoor events in the downtown area and agrees to provide funding in the amount of $20,000. Thank you.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to this resolution, I think as was presented by Council Member Petty. Okay. All right. We've been working on this a while, so I guess we would start with Devin. Wait. It'd be fine. He's been working on it. Yeah. Devin, you want to explain it? Sure, Mayor. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor, and good evening, Councilmembers. The item before you for your consideration this evening is a resolution funding for events, socially distanced at that, outdoor events, through a proposal from Experience Fayetteville. This idea stemmed from Mayor Jordan's Small Business Resiliency Task Force, and just as a reminder, this is a group that Mayor formed on March 21st of this year and has met weekly since the pandemic started.
 And it was also piloted by the city's long-range planner, Mary McEtrick, who's also on the line, and experienced Fayetteville on August 27th on Block Street. It was a great success. A lot was learned, and it became clear that these benefits could rotate throughout downtown, driving traffic to businesses on slower days of the week when they otherwise would not have had that bump in sales, enabling residents to reengage in downtown during different times of the week when it's not so busy.
 The events would be managed and led by Experience Fayetteville and coordinated with the businesses in the chosen areas. Other infrastructure, such as heaters, tents, sanitization practices, lighting, and the outdoor freshman area would be used to pull these events off. Staff is also exploring the acquisition of other funding through private philanthropic efforts so that we can make these even more throughout the year.
 Lastly, the item also provides some funding to keep restrooms open at the town center for lights of the Ozarks and outdoor freshman area patients through the end of the year. Molly Rahn, the executive director of Experience Fayetteville, who's also a member of Mayor's Small Business Task Force, is on the call if there are any questions for her. That concludes my report, Mayor. Thank you, Council. Okay. Molly, do you have anything you want to add?
 Thank you, Mayor. I think Devin presented it well. I'm happy to have this opportunity to bring it to you all. I think it will help our businesses and help our downtown. And I'm happy to answer any questions that you have or that the council has. Okay. What questions do you have, Council? I have a few questions. So you mentioned that you already piloted this on Block Street. Could you describe how many people were there and if social distancing was a problem?
 or if there were any other challenges you encountered. Was that directed at me or Devin or both? Both of you all, either one of you. Okay, well, I'm happy to start and then let Devin and Mary weigh in since they were also involved in the planning. Yes, we did pilot this on August 27th and I don't have a head count for you, though Devin might in terms of who attended. These are outdoor events
 And as part of the social distancing, we did not have any sort of like registration or check-in in place because it is a free open event. So that makes it a little difficult to count. We did have signage indicating that masks were required. We did make sure there was staff there to be able, you know, we hired contract labor to be able to keep the tables sanitized, sanitized.
 and to walk around and remind people to stay masked. My perception of it was that it felt that most everyone did an excellent job of maintaining social distance, and we definitely pushed that as part of the marketing of it, that this was to be a socially distant event where masks would be required, and that we wouldn't tolerate it otherwise.
 I'm happy to add in, though I'd be remiss if I didn't say that the execution of that event was not me. That was Mary McGinn who put a lot of work into that. So Mary, feel free to add in. I would say we had over 100 people at this event. It was spaced out down block, a very elongated event, and that's kind of something that we're seeing with the outdoor freshman area. We've had a few events take place now.
 And while there may be a specific event area, the nature of that ordinance and what it allows, allows people to spread out throughout the district. You can go walking, etc. Another thing that was observed that night that we continue to observe in our downtown and Block Street is no different, is the businesses really being ambassadors and driving that social distancing. They take this extremely seriously.
 those directives especially. So we noticed that that night, but what I noticed was good adherence to social distancing. It was very well attended. I was an attendee that night. And I can add, you know, we had signs like this
 this so encouraging small groups less than 10 I would say there were about 100 people there it was definitely a flowing event so we didn't have a lot of people congregating we had people stopping in getting a drink and kind of moving on and we did have city staff and experienced Fayetteville staff there the entire event to kind of monitor that along with
 the business owners so that they weren't fully responsible for that to kind of encourage people to keep their mask on when they weren't eating or drinking. And so I'd say adherence was good. And we tried our best to stay to meet the health department guidelines and make sure people were being responsible and safe while having fun.
 That's great. That's really good to hear. And do you anticipate with these new with the four new events that you're requesting to have about the same number of people or you anticipate it being a much larger crowd and then having adequate staffing to be able to encourage people to social distance and also to wear the mask?
 I will speak to the staffing aspect of that. One of the reasons that we are seeking funding for this is so that we can make sure that we do have paid staff there and we aren't relying fully on volunteers. I also want to bring up the point that this is...
 a pilot and this is something we need the businesses to really embrace and adopt. So we can go a long way towards making this a success, but we also need buy-in and support from the businesses in these areas to help make it a go because it won't work if they're not
 they aren't bought in. But every business that we've talked to is excited and is eager for this to move forward. The funding comes in and is really key because volunteers are great and wonderful. And I can't say enough good things about having dedicated volunteers. But when you have paid staff that can make sure that these events are done well, you can go a lot further. And so we want to do two things. One, be able to...
 employ some people that, some of our contract labor team from the town center that we haven't been able, they're in a gig economy and they haven't had worked for quite a while. So this is an exciting opportunity for them.
 and also we want to make sure that it's staffed enough that we can keep it safe and that we can watch it and that we can have signage um i do think that the attendance that we saw last time it'll be it'll be interesting to see right this is in a different month this isn't august um and i think one of the reasons you see us trying a couple of different days of the week is because we want to see what works um it it sounds counterintuitive but there are two goals and they can they can both be achieved one is
 How do we sort of thin out the crowd on those busy times to give them a safe place to go so they're not crammed into these businesses? And another is how to on these days that are just dead days where businesses downtown are dark, how do we draw people out that do so in a safe way? I believe you can do both. Mary or Devin, do you have anything that I left out?
 No, you covered it great, Molly. Thank you. Yeah, I think so. I think so, too. We've been working on this a while, and I really appreciate the work everybody's done on it. I know that there was some question about the funding. Paul, you want to address any of that? Yes, this should be eligible for CARES Act reimbursement.
 However, we do have to file for the reimbursement, but I feel confident that we should be reimbursed from CARES Act funding for this. That's what the budget adjustment indicates. Yeah, that was one of the first things I checked with Paul on in the last week or so was CARES Act funding to cover that and I appreciate you work on that, Paul. What other questions do we have in the council?
 I'd just like to say I think this is a fantastic idea and I really thank everyone in the city for working on this and especially for Matthew Petty for walking this on today. I'm really grateful for that because I think the sooner we can get this done the better. Thank you.
 Yes, go ahead. I just wanted to take the opportunity to thank staff. I appreciate getting a little credit from Councilmember Bunch, but walking this on was the only thing I had to do with this at all. This has been all staff at the city and at A&P, Devin, Mary, and Molly in the team supporting them, and of course the mayor supporting this as well coming on tonight, so potentially we could take advantage of this opportunity even sooner. Yep, yep.
 What else do we have? Is this an ordinance or a resolution? I think it's a resolution. It's a resolution? Yeah. Then I move we pass the resolution. Well, I'm going to take, that's fine. I need a second on that. Second. Second. Okay, I got to take some public comment now.
 Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. It's five minutes broken in segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic, which in this case is the funding for the entertainment program.
 events with the amp uh no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents first and who would like to address us on this okay i'll bring back to the council we have a motion in a second to pass the resolution correct okay any final comments from the council i have a quick comment yep i was able to attend the event and i found it very uh a successful event people were definitely uh
 going with the rules and it helped quite a few of the businesses there on Block Street and just created a really nice opportunity for people to get out of their houses and feel good in an outdoor safe place, especially for them to be able to go and support these businesses and otherwise having to be indoors. So I think it's a great idea. I hope you support it.
 Okay, any other final comments? All right, can you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Now let's go on to the consent agenda.
 number one approval of the september 29 2020 special city council meeting minutes in the october 6 2020 city council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of 22 238 dollars representing donation revenue to the two animal services number three
 A resolution to award bid number 20-50 and to authorize contract with Paladino Painting Company LLC, any amount of $147,160 for construction related to the rehabilitation of four concrete clarifier troughs at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment any amount of $400,000 for the purchase of water,
 purchase water account due to increased water usage number five a resolution to award bid number 20-68 and authorized contract with
 food loops llc for a term of one year with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms to supply compostable cups for use in the outdoor refreshment area in various sizes quantities and amounts on an as needed basis number six a resolution to approve
 The Lake Federal Boat Dock Operator Contract with Lake Federal Boat and Bike Rental LLC in the amount of $50,900 for services in 2021 with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms. Number seven.
 A resolution to award bid number 20-58 and authorize a contract with Austin King Incorporated, DBA, King Electric Contractors for Electric Services on an on-call basis for an item
 for a term of one year with an automatic renewal for up to four additional one-year terms. Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 20-63 and to authorize the purchase of bulk crushed rock salt from Kansas Salt LLC for $80 per ton for materials picked up and $93.12 per ton for materials delivered as needed and to authorize the use of,
 Central Salt LLC as a secondary supplier. Number nine, a resolution to authorize contract with Convergent Technologies for the purchase of an installation of network conduit and cabling to connect City Hall to the town center in the amount of $50,996.50 per center to a source well cooperative purchasing contract and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000. Number 10,
 A resolution authorized the purchase of facility security equipment system services and supplies from Convergent Technologies pursuant to Soarwell Co-op purchasing contract and an as needed basis through June 30th, 2021 and any future renewal periods. Number 11, a resolution to approve an agreement with Jordan Disposal LLC for the hauling of solid waste in the city of Fayetteville.
 Number 12, a resolution to award bid number 20-69 and authorize the contract with Terra Firma Restorations, LLC, DBA, T.M. Thompson Company, roofing and waterproofing any amount of $46,200 for replacement of the Garland Avenue Head Start building roof and to approve project tenancy in the amount of $6,900. Number 13, a resolution to amend the 2019 Community Development Block Grant
 action plan to reflect CARES Act supplemental funding in the amount of $556,197 to authorize Mayor Jordan to execute the amendment
 when received and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 14, a resolution to approve the contract with Boston Mountain Solid Waste District for environmental education and outreach services in the amount of $60,935 for years one and two and $25,000 for years three through five. Number 15, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2020-20
 Justice Assistance Grant in the total amount of $49,439, which will be used to purchase law enforcement training and equipment for the Federal Police Department
 and the Washington County Sheriff's Office into approval budget adjustment. Number 16, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2021 Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant in the amount of $99,400 and to approve a budget adjustment. I'll entertain a motion to accept consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Kara, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Kateras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith?
 Okay, thank you all. Going on to unfinished business number one, an ordinance to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 20-00006, located at 1278 West Hendrick Street for approximately 0.50 acres from RSF 8 residential single family, eight units per acre, to RSF 18 residential single family, 18 units per acre. I'll entertain a motion and go to the second reading. So moved.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-5076, located at 1278 West Hendricks Street for approximately half an acre, from RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Does the governor have this one tonight? Garner?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I don't have anything else to add. I would mention that with Keith Macedo's help, we did change the Intergov program to economize on those zeros in the future. So just a point of information.
 Do you have an applicant? I have left a message for the applicant Monday and today. I frankly don't know if he's on the line or not. I have not talked to him. His name is Bill Fugin. Okay. Bill, would you like to address the council? Yes, sir. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes, thank you.
 You know, I think the bulk of this street has recently been rezoned to RSF 18, which is what I'm asking for. Originally, when I attempted to rezone this property, RI 12 last year, I know that there was some public opposition towards that, but I don't believe there's been any opposition to RSF 18. I think that this is in line with the city's objective to
 create affordable housing and urban infill. So I appreciate your time. Happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff? I have a question.
 okay for the applicant um you know the pre the other applicant uh i think it's mr marks that got the rezoning done in the other area of of hendrick street he actually reached out and spoke with the neighbors to try and come to some kind of agreement with them that would work for both parties for all parties uh mr fugit have you done something similar um to that have you talked with the neighbors to see how um
 how whatever your development might be could work with the neighbors that have concerns? I did talk to all the neighbors who came to the original meeting and talked to them about my proposed use. I know that my proposed use is essentially the same as Mr. Mark's and definitely the same zoning.
 So to that extent I have spoken with them but not in the last, you know, since the last meeting or anything. And from that meeting were you able to garner their support or resolve any kind of concerns that they had? I'm just wondering if any headway was made recently?
 Yes, my understanding is that they're in support of RSF 18 zoning. The only opposition that I was aware of was to RI12 and RIU. So, you know, this RSF 18, the same thing that Mr. Marks, you know, did to his property as far as rezoning is the same thing here, which they supported. Okay, thank you. That's all the questions I have. Okay, what other questions do we have?
 I have a question. Sure. Yes, this is for Mr. Fugit.
 We visited this property about, I don't know, a year and a half ago. It was about the same time of the year, and the property was incredibly wet. Like the ground was very soaking wet from water that had drained in the area, and I noticed it's very low. So I just wonder, you know, how are you looking into that, or how are you addressing that? Or maybe even Garner can help us with that.
 Well, this is Bill Fugate. Right now I haven't done anything to the property. You know, but I imagine if it's developed, you know, some sort of soil remediation will have to be done and some sort of, you know, stormwater drainage will have to be addressed. This is Garner. This is limited single-family, currently single-family.
 is not subject to our stormwater retention and quality water requirements, but the building permit process does work on making sure that the drainage goes to the street. So, but they would just simply be subject to the building permit process, assuming a single family will be constructed. Thank you. Well, the question is to the council.
 okay let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak um you're limited to five minutes in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on the topic in this case it's the rezoning um from ra to uh rsf 18
 um no rude behavior please give us your name and address and uh residents of federal will speak first who would like to address us okay I'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinate it is on the second reading
 I recently attended a talk by Mervin Jebaraj at the Walton College of Business about housing trends in northwest Arkansas. And he said that unlike the other communities in our region, housing prices in Fayetteville are starting to stabilize at much more affordable rates. And he drew in his expert opinion, he directly attributed that to our
 allowance of increased zoning and smaller housing. I think that this is another opportunity to continue with that trend and create more opportunities for attainable housing that are within a quarter of a mile of our largest employer. So with that, I would move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith?
 An ordinance to rezone that properly described and rezoning petition RZN 20-506, located at 1278 West Hendrick Street for approximately half an acre, from RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Okay. All right. What final comments do we have in the council? I'd like to say a few words. First of all,
 I'm going to stand by my previous votes because in this specific property, it is very low. And the water from the neighboring properties do run directly onto it. I'm sure there could be some engineering to help with that. I'm sure there will be if it is developed. But at the same time, the water has to go somewhere. And this area is more and more prone to flooding, according to the neighbors that live there.
 I don't know why we're not hearing from the neighbors. It's puzzling to me, but I am gonna stand by my previous votes and not support this. Okay, who else? I'd like to see a few words. You know, that street is extremely narrow.
 And Mr. Marks actually provided a bill of assurance and worked directly and quite frequently with the neighbors to come to an agreement. We have had one letter that was against this that was recently submitted. And even though we haven't received any more than that one letter, I've heard quite a bit of rumbling that the neighbors are not supportive of this.
 So I'm going to continue to not support this. The street is very narrow. There are drainage issues. And unfortunately, our code right now does not require any drainage other than what Garner mentioned, drainage review for single-family homes or duplexes. So I will not be supporting this. What are the final comments we have in the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? No. Smith? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go on to number two.
 An ordinance to amend 130.01 adoption of the state criminal code of the federal code to include a hate crime component within city prosecutions of certain state criminal misdemeanors. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? I have a note that says Sarah Bunch had to leave the meeting. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 An ordinance amends section 130.01 adoption of state criminal code of the Fayetteville code to include a hate crime component within the city prosecutions of certain state criminal misdemeanors. Okay, Tracy. As we discussed a couple of weeks ago this this proposal this ordinance is very modest this would only apply to misdemeanor charges because we are restricted by state law
 So this would allow, if the prosecutor wanted to, if their crime was really egregious and he or she determined that there was a hate component associated with it, he could actually prosecute that offense using this ordinance if we pass it. I feel like we should really send a strong message that we don't tolerate this kind of activity, this kind of behavior. And we're
 We tout ourselves as an inclusive and welcoming city. Arkansas is only one of three states that currently does not have a state hate crime law.
 The others are South Carolina and Wyoming. And I know there's been discussion at the state level, but we've seen that things can happen at the state level where they are not able to follow through, don't have the votes. And it seems like we should do as much as we can here locally to dissuade people from engaging in that kind of hateful behavior.
 We've had several recent examples that have happened, and I think it's time that we enacted something like this. Little Rock has already gone ahead and done a similar ordinance, and I know that there are other cities that are looking at similar ordinances to pass. I'd be happy to take any questions that you all may have. Okay. What questions do we have for Teresa on this? Yes.
 Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minutes that will be broken up into segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. And as the adoption of the state, an amendment, the adoption of the state criminal code or the federal code to include a hate crime component within the city process
 of certain state criminal misdemeanors. That is the topic. So please no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and citizens of federal will be first who would like to address us. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, it's on the second reading. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. We're sorry, did I hear a second? Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Kenyon?
 And the ordinance amends section 130.01, adoption of state criminal code or the Fayetteville Code to include a hate crime component within city prosecutions of certain state criminal misdemeanors. Okay, any final comments from the council? Okay, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay.
 Thank you all. Let's move on. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yes. Smith. Yes. And that did pass, Mayor. All right. Thank you all. All right. Let's move on to new business. Number one, a resolution to encourage all landlords and federal to ensure the habitability and safety of their rental properties and to request that the mayor research potential.
 changes to the city code to provide greater protections to tenants. Sloan, I believe this is yours. Yeah, thank you. About a year ago, I wanted to start looking at actually applying an ordinance and starting to –
 actually define some habitability standards in Fayetteville. About the time that that happened, COVID hit. So this got pushed back and then some other issues have kind of pushed back doing an ordinance, but I'm kind of ready to move forward on getting it out there that Fayetteville would like landlords to do a better job of supplying habitability.
 to the rentals and then also to allow staff to go ahead and research doing stuff, hopefully that has some teeth. If you just kind of look around, there are definitely some places that aren't really habitable.
 Fayetteville is almost half renters and we really need to protect our residents. So that's why I brought this forward and I'll answer any questions you'll have. Okay. What questions do we have for Shulman on this?
 I just have a comment. I'd really like to thank Councilmember Scroggins for bringing this forward. Again, Arkansas is one of the few states, maybe the only states, that does not have habitability standards for renters. And so I think this is long overdue, and I appreciate his leadership in bringing this issue to the Council. Thank you.
 Sloan, can you talk a little bit about, will this address mold issues? That's a frequently occurring problem in rental properties in Fayetteville is the presence of black mold and poor air quality. Will that be touched on here?
 Currently, it's encouraging. And then I do have kind of a list that we wanted to put in the ordinance that I haven't brought that forward today. But when we hopefully can bring forward an ordinance, we'll actually look at things that do have teeth, obviously, potentially.
 landlords are encouraged to make sure, and there's kind of a list of things, and making sure that your rental isn't slowly killing your tenants should definitely fall under the category of something that we encourage to not have that happen. I'm just wondering if, actually, never mind. I'm seeing now that that's in the narrative and not in the ordinance. Thank you.
 Okay. Yes, I definitely look forward to bringing forward an ordinance. But right now this is what I think would get that ball rolling. Okay. Any other questions? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. We have five minutes. We're up into three and two segments.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or the city council. Our city council members stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and federal residents will go first. Who would like to address the council? All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I move we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council?
 I would like to make a short comment. A couple of weeks ago, the Board of Realtors asked me about this exact issue. I got the sense that they were not a fan of any sort of regulation on rental properties at all. My initial answer to them was that I didn't really know if this was in our jurisdiction or not.
 If it seemed like it was and somebody brought it up, I was definitely interested in being part of the conversation. So I appreciate Council Member Scoggin for bringing this up a little earlier than I expected. This one clearly is within our power to do as a resolution, but I hope that we will see something more substantial in the future because like I told them, habitability standards aren't just about
 you know, aesthetics or comfort. They are about health and safety, but they're also about long-term preservation of property values and maintaining the housing stock in our neighborhood is better for everybody around it. A lot of folks don't understand why we would need this. It seems absolutely reasonable that you wouldn't go live in a place that has black mold or bedrooms without windows, but we don't always know what
 place in life folks are at. And sometimes, you know, when you're in a hard place, you take what you can get. And we owe it to our community to make sure that whatever they can get is safe so that we don't have things like children living in a house or an apartment with
 a bedroom that they can't get out of in a fire like happened in West Fork not too long ago. And so I hope that we will move swiftly on this topic and really focus on the core safety issues when we get there. Thank you. And then final comments from the council. Just a quick comment. I've been a renter in Fayetteville my whole life.
 This has been my whole adult life, 30 years, minus a few where I was studying abroad. But I think we really need this. Having experienced the rental situation in Fayetteville, I've had definitely better places than others. But something like this would have been really helpful for me as a renter. And I think it's in the right direction and safe and healthy people means a great
 economy for Fayetteville and when people are uh feel taken care of and feel that their basic needs are met then they can better participate in the community and be um you know great members of the community to make sure that Fayetteville continues to succeed so I'll definitely be supporting this
 I'd like to add that you know I've spent a long time renting in Fayetteville as well and had some I've lived in houses with sewage dripping out of the the walls with holes in the walls
 And the other thing that I think we need to be looking at is energy use and requiring some sort of energy use disclosure on these rental properties, because a lot of times people choose a property because they think they can afford it because the rent is lower. But then once they sign a lease and they move in and they find that the utility bills are exorbitant because there's no insulation, no sheathing holes in the wall.
 I remember when I first moved back to Fayetteville, thinking that I could afford a home, and then the first month getting hit with a $450 gas bill and having frozen pipes and being sick all the time because it wouldn't stay warm. You know, this has a detrimental effect on our health, on our economy, and as well as our environment. So I really hope that we will...
 help people make informed decisions about when they're renting and hold landlords accountable to delivering safe habitable properties. Thank you so much, Sloan, for bringing this forward. I support it wholeheartedly. Okay, anybody else? Okay. Caravage, please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Kurt? Yes.
 Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Moving along to number two. An ordinance rezoning that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 20-005 located at 660 West Willock Street for approximately .80 acres from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RMF12 residential multifamily 12 units per acre.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo from RSF-4, Residential Single-Family, 4 units per acre, to RMF-12, Residential Multi-Family, 12 units per acre.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arch are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor and Council. This request is located east of College on Willock Street. Willock Street is about a block south of the entrance to Fulbright Expressway.
 The parcel is surrounded by RSF4 zoning. The depth of the commercial zoning extends almost to the parcel. Council will recall in 2017, I believe, there was a request for similar zoning for the church immediately to the west, which was approved by council.
 Issues that staff and Planning Commission looked at, the street's very, very narrow. It's 18 feet wide, it has a bar ditch drainage, and it is about a quarter of a mile dead end street that ends kind of going up. The context is that there are scattered houses on the existing street.
 And a portion of this lot starts intruding into the hillside, hilltop, Overly District. Planning Commission did recommend approval of the request. They cited the need for housing and the convenient access to both school and the entrance to Fulbright Expressway, which gives access to points north.
 Staff debated this request extensively and we felt it was a close call. But our recommendation was based on the fact that the infrastructure for this configuration of lot running onto a very narrow street
 And also the fact that we're starting up the steep hill, hilltop hillside over Bay District is in excess of 15%. And a line will need, we think, to be drawn in terms of intense entitlements as we get into the steep part of that hill. So that was the reason we had recommended denial.
 I'd be happy to answer any questions. I do believe, Mayor, that the applicant, Joseph Mistretta, is present, I hope. Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council? Yes, good evening, this is Joseph Mistretta. Can you hear me? Yes, go ahead. Yes, I reside at that property, 660 West Willock.
 We went through this about, I think the concern was that the street was narrow for fire department, any problems with emergency calls. And one of the planning commissioners said that he felt that if there was a situation, it's not that far from college. They could back down into college if they have to. I do have a turnaround there that they could.
 that's pretty wide, about 20 feet that they could turn around there. So that was that issue. And you did, well, the city, I don't know if you did, but the city council back in 2017 approved the property just to the west, changed it to RI-12. So this isn't much different than that zoning change. Okay.
 All right, what questions do we have for the applicant or staff on this from the council? Mayor, I have a question for staff. Okay. Governor, you said that this was debated pretty heavily among staff. You mentioned two things, the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District and also the infrastructure generally. I'm reading the packet, and I noted that there's a letter from the fire department which says they have no issues whatsoever with,
 with the request or the infrastructure that's present. Certainly 18 feet seems wide enough for two passenger cars to pass or the occasional delivery vehicle to navigate the street, especially given it's not a through street or a dead end street. I was wondering if you could be more specific about the infrastructure concerns. Well, what I was referring to, Council Member Petty was that we're starting to get a lot of information
 back into intent, putting intense zoning on the hilltop hillside hilltop overlay district, which is only mapped when there's a slope of in excess of 15%. We were concerned about can we sustain that and where is that line drawn? Does it continue on this narrow street lot by lot?
 I understand that the fire department could get to this particular lot, but the depth of the C2 commercial zoning ends before this lot, which was kind of a rationale for the RI-12 in 2017. So it's drawing a line. In the final analysis, that's council's call, what you're comfortable with, but I'm just telling you we feel that
 we wouldn't recommend zoning the hillside, hilltop overlay district into the intense zones. That's not the concept that's in the 2040 plan. I'm glad we're having this conversation. Personally, I don't perceive 12 units of strictly residential property to be exceedingly intense. That seems pretty middle of the road to me, especially considering the more stringent requirements we have
 in hillside hilltop overlay developments with respect to tree preservation. I believe there's a separate standard for hillside hilltop overlay districts. And there might be a couple other separate standards. I guess what I'm pondering as we talk about this is, first, it seems clear that the infrastructure is sufficient. It seems like perhaps that has been lumped in
 with other reasons, but perhaps should not have been included. With respect to the Hillside Overlay District itself, I'm wondering if staff feels that the regulations we have for the Hillside and Hilltop Overlay District today are insufficient. Councilman Petty, the Hillside Hilltop Overlay requirements actually cut both ways. There are additional requirements like tree preservation,
 And then there are other requirements that allow narrow streets. So, a lighter touch in terms of infrastructure. And sidewalks only on one side rather than two sides. But I think a good zoning policy should not just look at one lot, but should look at all the parcels that are in similar locations and whether that is sustainable to zone those more intensely.
 Okay, I think I understand what the decision is for myself. And I guess it's coming back to a question we've begun to talk about in a couple of prior meetings, which is how assertive do we want to be in establishing these growth centers? And that's what I'll be thinking of. I have a question for, I don't know if Tim Nyander is available or maybe Mark could tell us. I know in the past I've received a lot of feedback about the poor population.
 Water infrastructure on Skelton Street, and I'm wondering if Willock Street is in a similar state of distress from a water, sewer, solid waste perspective. Does anyone know? I'm afraid Tim is most likely not on the call tonight. He didn't have any items. Councilmember Kenyon, do you have a comment? Well, I know that this was, when we were doing the long-term plan, the 20-year plan, this was mentioned in this area of town to be...
 one of the issues that would be handled, but I don't know off the top of my head exactly how far along that is or where we have it in our long-term plan.
 I wish I knew. I just know I know it was evident. I know that we talked about it because we all of it you were on the committee I think then. Yeah that's that's why I'm remembering it. Right. I'm just yeah I'm just wondering if this is an opportunity to get a developer to pay for a significant portion of the cost of upgrading the water sewer infrastructure in that area. If so that that does make a compelling case for
 for considering an EPSOAN. Thanks. Anything else? Gardner, you mentioned something about a 15 degree slope or something like that and kind of that informing the decision that staff has made. Can you can you expound on that a little bit more?
 The hillside hilltop overlay district is mapped when our hillsides are in excess of 15 degrees
 So it also, if a mountain top, the flat part of a mountain is completely surrounded by 15 degree or greater slope, it is also subject to being mapped as the hilltop over Lady Street. Okay, thank you. Gardiner, am I reading the map right or the exhibit right that only the, I guess that's the site,
 southeast corner of the property is actually in the hillside, hilltop district. Just looks like it's a very small slice. Your microphone is off. Can you unmute? Yes, that is correct. But the entire parcel across the street is in the much steeper part. It really starts ascending to the south. The slope is south to north.
 So the question here is if you zone this, then what do you do with the parts across the street and the points east? I'm just wondering if, you know, looking at the satellite imagery, it appears over 50% of the site is already impervious surface area, including that area that's in the hillside hilltop protection area. How much more or how...
 I guess I'm just curious as to if it's already impervious surface area, how much worse could it get? Well, I'm not pretending that that's a definitive criteria. I'm saying it's part of our thinking. And you're correct. It didn't have a house on it. Yeah, it has an existing structure in very poor condition and a lot of impervious surface area already. Thanks.
 i'm somewhat familiar with this area and i'm wondering if it wouldn't be helpful if the council took a tour because that street is extremely narrow and um maybe i'm missing something here but all i see on this property from the image is the house i don't really see much impervious surface so um maybe i'm on the wrong spot but it it doesn't look like there's it looks like there's only a house in a small kind of driveway area
 You have to look at the satellite imagery on Google Earth to see it. And I was just there the other day. That's how I know. I was looking at another property next door. Okay, great. Thanks. So I think it would be helpful if we took a tour. I haven't been there in six months or so. So thanks. I would support a tour. Okay. What other questions do we have from the council to the applicant or the staff? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Then we'll decide what we want to do here.
 Everyone has one turn to speak. You have five minutes broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wish of the council? Do you want to hold it here, have a turn,
 What do you all want to do? That's what I would like to do. Hold it here, have a tour, and revisit it in two weeks. I would like to do that as well. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Since that's what we hear, then that's what we'll do. We'll hold it right here, and we'll come back in two weeks. All right. Let's move on to the next one, number three. An ordinance rezoned that property described in the zoning petition 20-10.
 008 located at 1038 South Hollywood Avenue for approximately 0.58 acres from RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre to CS community services kit. Being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A,
 and the legal description exhibit being both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 Residential Single-Family Four-Uniers Breaker to ECS Community Services. Section 2 is at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner, do you have this? Yes, sir. Here we go.
 Okay, this parcel is located on Hollywood Avenue at Best Way Street. It's located in an area that is rapidly developing primarily for student housing. You see the large parking lot that the University has immediately to the east. It does have immediate trail access and it has transit service.
 The adjacent zoning is community services on two sides. It is designated urban center area, which is intended for dense mixed use development where existing infrastructure is present. It has a relatively high infill score of eight and transit service primarily to campus is available
 No issues were identified and no public comments were received to date. And the Planning Commission staff does recommend approval of the request. I'd be happy to answer any questions. And I believe Payne Phillips is representing the applicant. Okay. Would you have to like speak to the council? Okay.
 Okay. I see Payne Phillips is on, but he has not raised his, there he is. Okay, Mayor Payne Phillips has raised his hand. Okay. Go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah. I'm just here to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minutes.
 in three and two segments uh don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member please stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first who would like to be first okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what's the wishes of the council i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second
 We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yes.
 In ordinance, rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-008, located at 1038 South Hollywood Avenue for approximately 0.58 acres. From RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to CS community services. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll. Torres? Yes. Mars? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe in rezoning petition RZN 20-008 located at 1038 South Hollywood Avenue for approximately 0.58 acres from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to CS community services.
 what final comments do we have in the council on this i'm just really excited to see this uh come before us we really need some trail oriented development and services in this area it's a very popular segment of the trail um so i look forward to see what happens with the property definitely in support any other final comments from council all right carol would you please call the row guitaras yes ours yes kenyan
 Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. In order to rezone that property, we're going to be describing a rezoning petition, RZN 20-010, located at 257 East Township Street for approximately 1.4 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial, UT Urban Thoroughfare. Mike?
 did you read the title already or am i on the wrong i think i think we just voted on that okay well it passed so okay now i'm about to get what i just read okay good enough
 You really almost pulled that off. Sorry, Mayor. Got a little ahead of myself. I'm confused here. I've missed something. But anyway, number four. An ordinance to zone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-010 located at 257 East Township Street for approximately 1.40 acres. C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Okay. Now, let me read the body now. Okay. Here we go.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of properties shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C2, Thoroughfare Commercial, to UT, Urban Thoroughfare. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner.
 uh yes mayor this parcel is located uh west of a college uh south of township it is hard surface almost entire lot from a former parking lot and buildings it is surrounded by c2 commercial zoning and as you'll recall
 The requested zoning is similar to C2, except it has a build two line rather than a setback. And it allows mixed use in the form of residential development.
 um adopted plans it's designated in the neighbor city neighborhood area infield score is high seven to ten it's part of the 71b corridor plan and if you recall the market study that was done for that plan it had modest prospects for additional retail service and office
 but felt that it was right for residential development, which this would allow. Since then, of course, we've experienced the pandemic. And I think the outlook for non-residential development in Fayetteville is probably even less potential than it was then.
 No issues were identified. Planning Commission staff do recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. And I believe Tom Henley is representing the applicant. Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council? Okay, go ahead, Tom.
 There we go. There's my microphone. Yeah, Mayor, I appreciate the opportunity. Council as well, we're representing ERC on this rezoning. We appreciate the opportunity. I think that Planning Commission was enthusiastic
 about this rezoning more so than any other that I've ever brought through. And the intent of the rezoning is specifically to bring a residential component to this part of township, which I think the commercial businesses in the area would appreciate. I can answer any questions you may have. Okay, what questions do we have in council for the staff or the applicant?
 Okay. Let's get some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minutes. Broken into segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address us? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It is on the first reading.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith?
 Adnorance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-010 located at 257 East Township Street for approximately 1.4 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? It's Harris. Yes. Second.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. In order to rezone that property as cried in the rezoning petition RZN 20-010 located at 257 East Township Street for approximately 1.4 acres from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Budge? Budge? Yes. Turk? Turk. Smith? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number five. An ordinance to approve Vacation 20-003 for property located southeast of Razorback Road and 15th Street to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement. Kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes.
 Whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a water and sewer easement is not required for corporate purposes Now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of water and sewer easement as described in exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo section 2
 A copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1.
 Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense, and number two, the owner shall dedicate a general utility easement at least 10 feet in width along the path of the proposed realigned water line. Okay. Garner? Yes, Mayor. There's a residential project under construction on this narrow strip of land between the railroad track and Razorback.
 They have relocated the water line to parallel Razorback Road. So this part of the former East is no longer needed. Planning Commission staff recommend vacation. Okay. What questions do we have?
 It looks like when I was there the other day that they've already poured slabs on this. Are they already building on top of this easement or is that just slightly to the side of it? I believe that Andy Hooper is online representing the applicant. He might be able to answer that question. Yes, go ahead. I'm sorry. The applicant is here. Would you like to speak for the council? I want to answer that question. Andy Hooper with Bates & Associates.
 Go ahead. We can hear you. Oh, okay. Sorry about that. To my knowledge, I haven't made any official job visits or site visits or anything like that. I've just been working on vacating the easement. I'm more on the survey side of the department. But I know that they have actually started to do dirt work out there, as far as my knowledge is.
 Yeah, there are slabs already poured and plumbing roughed out. So I suspect they're building on top of it, which I guess expedites the urgency with which we need to deal with it. So thanks. Any other questions from the council? Okay, let's hear from the public. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minutes broken into three and two segments. Don't.
 Engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on the topic. No rude behavior Please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to speak before the council? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes
 Marsh? Yes. Kedion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. An ordinance to approve DAC 20-003 for a property located southeast of Razorback Road and 15th Street to vacate a portion of a water and sewer easement. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second.
 We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Carowinds, please call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 That in order to approve the AC 20-003 for property located southeast of Razorback Road and 15th Street to vacate a portion of the water and sewer easements. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, let's move on to number six, a resolution pursuant to 166.04 of the federal Unified Development Code to approve the applicant's request not to dedicate additional right of way for five lot splits in Park Meadows subdivision phases one and two. Garner, you have this one. No. Yes, Mayor. Does Kent need to read anything?
 that's a resolution oh i'm sorry i'm sorry i'm so used to his voice um this is an administrative item um it's a very very simple request although it uh it's associated with complicated issues and i'll try to make it uh really straightforward
 um this park metals was uh platted when our street uh width right away width was 50 feet and now is 52 feet due to the increased width of the sidewalks that we now require but uh the parcels that are in question were all plotted as unbillable lots
 because they were mapped in the floodplain and were undergoing a remapping process, which has now been accomplished and the fill has been also done. So they're now asking to use the administrative process of lot splits
 All these lots are very, very similar to the other lots in Park Meadows under the same neighborhood conservation zoning. They're primarily 50 feet wide. They're going through the administrative process, but since it hadn't been platted, they're now subject to the wider right of way, which doesn't make any sense since the rest of the street and sidewalks are all built. So Planning Commission staff recommend approval of lesser dedication, which is one foot less right of way.
 Okay. Yeah. All right. What questions do we have for the staff? Mayor, I think Taylor Lindley is the applicant's representative. All right. Is that the applicant? Would you like to speak to the council?
 Yes, sir. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is Taylor Lindley with Craft and Toll. We submitted a LOMER request to FEMA to remap the floodplain through this property. As Garner described, all of these lots were affected by that floodplain initially. All the improvements have been done. The LOMER has been approved and will become effective this December. That will allow these lots to be
 uh plotted uh and not be in the floodplain any longer uh but as garner mentioned uh there is the issue with uh the new requirement for additional right-of-way when we when we split these lots and so um hopefully it is a simple request and i and i am available to answer any further questions you may have okay what okay what questions do we have for the applicant or the staff um
 I have a question, I think for staff. So right now the sidewalks are built and those were built to the previous code, not the 52-foot right-of-way but the 50-foot right-of-way, is that correct? The adjacent sidewalks have. The adjacent sidewalks are built to the previous code, yes.
 So what the applicant is seeking and what staff thinks makes sense is continuity. Thank you for that clarification. Any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comments then. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute.
 Duration broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to speak before the council? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. It needs a motion and a second. I move we pass the resolution. Second. Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and second to pass resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Budge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Okay, thank you all, moving along to C7.
 What you have in your packet has been replaced with this resolution. This is a resolution to grant the appeal of Councilmember Sarah Bunch, Teresa Turk, and Mark Kenyon and deny the conditional use permit CUP 2020-003 for a cluster housing development and limited business.
 with associated parking at 1629 North Crossover Road. Kitsch, you want to explain that? Yes, Mayor. That's how the resolution should be worded. I sent out a little memo this afternoon, and in that I explained that the burden of persuasion normally rests upon an applicant seeking development approval. However, if the applicant has received the Planning Commission's approval for land development,
 including approval of the conditional use permit, which is then appealed to the City Council. Those who have appealed to Planning Commission's approval must have the majority support of the City Council to win their appeal and deny the conditional use permit. Therefore, I would ask the Council to amend the currently proposed resolution to the one that the Mayor just read the title of, which would be granting the appeal rather than approving the conditional use permit. I attach that to my memo so that you have seen it
 I will read the body if you, well, maybe I'll just read the body now so you'll know what the body would say and then see if you'll amend to it. The mayor read the title. The body would be, whereas the Planning Commission approved conditional use permit CUP 2020-003,
 On September 14, 2020, for a proposed cluster housing development with 10 single-family units and approximately 4,576 square feet of limited business with associated parking, and whereas Council Members Sarah Bunch, Teresa Turk, and Mark Kinion have properly appealed the decision of the Planning Commission pursuant to Section 15505A3 of the Unified Development Code,
 Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby denies conditional use permit CUP 2020-003 for a proposed cluster housing development with limited business uses with associated parking at 1629 North Crossover Road, or, and this is what you'd have to decide if you're voting to approve this, or approves the conditional use permit,
 CUP 2020-003 with the following additional or changed conditions. Since we submitted the resolution, which is really not correct in this time because it put the burden on the applicant and he already won at the Planning Commission level and that was improper, so I would request that you go ahead and amend the resolution to what I have, the Mayor and I have just read and what I supplied to you this afternoon.
 Okay. So Kit, if we make, if we amend the resolution since you've already read everything, do I have to phrase it that way or just, can I just say to amend the resolution to what you have described? Yes, you can just do that. You can just say you amended to what was just been described. I would like to amend that to what has been described by Kit. I'll second that. Okay, we have a motion and a second.
 Carol Michoud, police, call the roll. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kittian? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith?
 Mayor, I'd like to advise the council that you really at this point have three options. You can vote against and defeat the resolution. This would affirm the Planning Commission's decision to grant the conditional use permit.
 or you can vote for and pass the resolution, which would grant the appeal and either, A, invalidate the conditional use permit, it's gone, or B, pass an amended conditional use permit with additional or changed conditions. So those are your three options that you have, and I'll leave the rest to you. Okay, let me get this all in my little head here. First, you can just vote against what we just put
 to read, correct? The resolution that you just read. They can vote against that. Yeah, they can turn down the resolution. They can turn down the resolution, then the conditional use will be sustained, affirmed, and will be still in effect. Okay. Or they can vote for it, or they can change it to whatever they want to by the majority vote, I would say. So what's the pleasure of the council on this? Who'd like to be first? All right.
 Don't we need to take public comment? Well, I kind of... Have we heard from the applicant? Sorry. Mayor, Mayor, I do have a short presentation that describes what the Planning Commission approved. All right, let's do it. Okay. So this 1.8 acre parcel is completely vacant with the exception of a historic house.
 It's located on the west side of crossover across the street from Ripawool Lane and Inwood Lane. It is surrounded by homes backing onto this parcel both north and south and to the west there is a swimming pool and a clubhouse and a tennis court. The ordinance requires for the conditional use permit
 to show that you meet the requirements of the ordinance. And there are specific requirements in order to get a conditional use permit for a cluster housing. There has to be 250 feet of private open space, 500 square feet of public open space,
 per unit, the architecture has to be varied. So this is not a development approval, but it is an illustration, it's conceptual plan that shows how the applicant plans to meet the conditions of the cluster housing ordinance. So the open common open space is met in the middle through a recreational open space area and the private open spaces adjacent to the 10 units.
 And the architecture, first let me show you the historic house, which is proposed to be maintained, which was built, I believe, in 1876 and is on the National Register, with the exception of the slightly deteriorated porch, which the rest of the house was supposed to be maintained.
 The architecture, again, these are conceptual elevations to show variety in order to meet the requirements of the cluster housing ordinance. These homes are from 1,100 square feet to about 1,600 square feet, so they're small homes.
 And I'm just showing the, it has a common parking arrangement. It has carports on the south side of the site plan and a common parking area to serve the remaining of the homes and the proposed commercial development. There are two, it proposes to allow ten residential units
 And use unit 12A, which is a very restrictive commercial use in the historic building and in a new building facing crossover. So the issues that we looked at were compatibility, public private access, the shared parking and the screening debuffer from the adjacent homes. The planning commission,
 approved the condition you submit with the 12 staff recommended conditions and then they added three additional conditions and they said that and these are my summaries of those conditions the dwelling shall be subject to the exterior lighting standards and the preservation of the Peter Smith House is required
 uh and screening shall be also provided uh some of the public input was that uh there's a need for screening and in this case it's both the fence and vegetation screening should be provided on the west edge of the property and not just the north and south where the homes back onto the existing halls so the council's reasons for the appeal were
 potential whether there's a possibility of adverse effect of public interest safe ingress and egress off off street parking and loading refuse and service areas screening and buffering and general compatibility with adjacent property we looked at these these are part of the ordinance requirements for conditional use permits when we did our recommendations to the planning commission
 And since council specifically brought these back into attention, we again looked at these conditions, these requirements, and we feel that these issues have all been substantially addressed. And we recommend that you sustain the Planning Commission's approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe Richard, Richie Lamb is representing the applicant. Okay, Richie, go ahead.
 Yes, good evening Mayor Jordan and good evening council members. This is Richie Lamb. I'm also here with Baxter Smith. We are broadcasting live from downtown Fayetteville tonight. Thank you all for hearing, or thank you all for the opportunity to share our project with you. I'll start with the history about our project, which will give you all a sense of how we got here today. I started working on this project in March of 2018.
 And we organized a meeting with the Boardwalk POA, which was held at their clubhouse adjacent to our property on April 9th of 2018. That night, there was at least 35 members of the Boardwalk community who came to visit with us. It did not turn out to be the kind of meeting that we had all hoped for.
 Braxton Baxter had brought his family with him his wife and they brought a son and a daughter with them. We also brought Terry who's the owner of a local pizza restaurant who at that time was considering moving her restaurant over there and Terry even brought her son who works with her.
 We thought that the neighborhood would be thrilled to hear that they could get one of our local favorite restaurants within walking distance of their neighborhood. But what happened, you know, really was embarrassing for me. We had to sit through a couple hours of some really negative comments directed, you know, not just at me, but at Baxter and his family too.
 And in hindsight, we really probably should have not spoken to them anymore after that first meeting. But, you know, with Baxter, you know, having grown up here in Fayetteville and with his wife being a business owner there at Mission and Crossover, we decided that we would keep working with them.
 we at that time had a plan for a request of rezoning to community services, which would allow for the pizza restaurant. And, you know, after that meeting and after some more discussions with the planning staff, we did change that request to NSG, which is Neighborhood Services General. And I presented that to the planning commission on April 23rd of 2018. And we got a lot of
 feedback from the community that night. We got a lot of feedback from the commissioners that night. Ultimately that request was denied. And that was really the starting point for when this plan started to come together. We brought all that information back to the planning commission in the form of a concept plat on May 29th of 2018.
 And again, we heard from the community and we heard from the commissioners and we were assured that night that we were on the right track with this plan. We took a few months to analyze all that data and we met with the Boardwalk POA again on November 19th of 2018. And at that time they had formed what they called a liaison committee, which was, you know, the purpose was to communicate with our team.
 And we continue meeting with their committee on several occasions. We met with them again on January 10th of 19, October 8th of 19, and then again on March 2nd of 2020. And finally, on June 15th of 2020, as a follow-up to our March meeting, we received an email from them stating that they were not interested in any concept other than the 2,250 square foot plus facility.
 estate homes that complied with the boardwalk covenants. And so we had to come to grips with that. We ultimately decided that that wasn't what the market would bear. It wasn't what the community was asking for. That wasn't what we wanted to build. And it didn't follow any of the feedback that we had received from the planning commission. And further, it went against our city plan 2030 guidelines.
 2040 and against our future land use plans. And so we finally just had to part ways with them. So we took all the information that was available to us and develop the concept that you see tonight. It is 10 single family homes. They range from, you know, 1100 up to almost 1700 square feet
 So they are going to be much more affordable than the large estate type homes that you're going to see in Boardwalk. And they're two stories, which is typical of the area. But let me interrupt you a minute. The applicant only has 10 minutes to give their presentation. So you're you're into five minutes now. So you're telling me I'm on track. Thank you very much. OK, well, yeah.
 I've lost my place here in my narrative. Go ahead. We'll give you another five minutes. Yeah. Okay. You were talking about two-story homes being typical for the area.
 Yeah, so, but we made sure that we had the master bedroom and bathroom down on the ground floor so it's going to work good for people of all different abilities. You know, we've got our own clubhouse we've got our own swimming pool so people aren't going to feel like they need to go over to the boardwalk amenities that was one of their major concerns.
 And we have plans for mixed use spaces along the frontage, which provides a buffer from the highway and a place for some small businesses. It's a good place for a professional office, you know, an insurance agent or a realtor's office would fit in really nice there. And last but not least, our plan allows for the adaptive reuse of the historic Peter Smith house.
 and the type of care and maintenance that that property merits, which will become feasible once we have provided a long-term useful life for that structure. So this plan was overwhelmingly accepted and approved by the Planning Commission in September. And so that brings us here tonight. We do concur with Garner's assessment of the Planning Commission's decision on,
 And so, you know, lastly, you know, I'm asking you, Baxter is asking you, our family's asking you, the rest of the community is asking you, please do not overturn the planning commission's approval of this project. And Mayor Jordan, that concludes my proposal. We will both be here to answer any questions that you have. Sure, thank you. Okay. What questions do we have?
 from the council for the applicant our staff i have a question um i think for the applicant um mr lamb thank you so much for incorporating the historic smith house my question is i wonder what kind of shape it is in and if you're planning it for adaptive reuse does a considerable amount of of money have to be invested in that to be able to
 get it up to code or up to standard where it actually could be a commercial property and uh and who would be making that investment if it is in disrepair okay yes the home is very much in disrepair as you can see from the photos of the latest edition which is under the shed portions will will need to be removed it doesn't follow along with the historic uh nature of the property
 And yes, we do expect that a significant investment will need to be made into that property in order to receive an occupancy permit from the city. You know, we will have to be applying for building permits and such. But, you know, it really is critical that we have the limited business use approved for that property. It is not sustainable as a single family home.
 And that's how it's ended up in the condition that it's in right now. Exactly, because
 you know, it could just remain the way it is. And that's my concern that nobody takes that on to actually be able to maintain it or, or restore it to where it doesn't just disintegrate and degrade. So. Yeah. So while we're talking about that house, one thing that I was hoping would be in the staff report, but, but it was not. I do have a letter from preserve Arkansas that I'd like to read to you if I'd be allowed to.
 Sure, go ahead. Okay, and this letter comes from Rachel Patton. She is the Executive Director of Preserve Arkansas. Dear Mayor Jordan, Mr. Williams, and City Council members, I hope this finds you safe and well. Let me begin by introducing myself. I am Rachel Patton, Executive Director of Preserve Arkansas, a statewide nonprofit advocate for historic preservation.
 and I'm writing today in reference to the proposed development 1629 North Crossover Road. Preserve Arkansas supports the proposed conditional use permit for this property and that it requires the owners to preserve the 1886 Peter Smith House with minimal allowances made for regular maintenance and continued use of the structure and provides a viable plan for the historic building's rehabilitation and adaptive reuse.
 Although the Smith House is listed in the National Register of Historic Places with statewide significance as a rare example of a stone constructed vernacular cottage in the Arkansas Ozarks, that listing is honorary and does not protect the house from demolition. This stipulates, the stipulations of this conditional use permit ensure the preservation of the Smith House.
 which we support. If the property was sold to another developer, the historic homes preservation is not guaranteed and the current zoning would allow approximately eight homes on the nearby two acre parcel. Furthermore, a historic property in use
 will fare much better than a vacant one. To that end, the current proposal provides a compatible plan for the Smith House's reuse as a commercial property, given its location on a major thoroughfare. Thank you for your careful consideration of this proposal, Rachel Patton. And so there is one item of correction that I did discuss with staff earlier today.
 It does state in the letter that if the property were to transfer to another developer, that the preservation allowance would go away. And that's not correct. Once the conditional use permit is enacted through the request of a building permit, that would then preserve that forever. And it wouldn't matter if it got sold to another developer.
 that aspect would still remain in place. Garner, is that correct? Yes, sir. It goes with the use permit. It is a condition of the use permit. This conditional use permit expires in a year. But there's nothing about, there's nothing that requires the developer to build the 10 units, but if they're built,
 The house has to be preserved. It stays with the land, not the owner. So let me ask a question. So if this does not happen, then that historic building could be torn down or not preserved or what happens?
 Well, it's on the National Register, but the National Register does not, Mayor, require preservation. It provides some tax credits, it has some incentives, it provides recognition and tax credit, but not preservation. Oh, okay. Thank you. If we had a local landmark, which we've been diligently trying to work on,
 it could require preservation. Okay. I have another question, Garner. So do I understand you correctly that, for example, if the CUP is passed tonight, is agreed to, and it expires at one year, so those 10 houses are not built, then all the protections for the Smith house would go away. Is that accurate?
 Well, it gives the applicant a year to start. But if they don't start in a year or get an extension, then the CUP goes away. It reverts back to just an SF-4 with no conditional use. Is that right? That is correct. Okay. Thank you. I also have a question probably for Kit.
 What is going to make them not change their mind about upgrading that building? So, I mean, would we deny certificates of occupancy for the buildings if, say, they haven't started on rehabbing the old building but had finished building the 10 units? What mechanisms do we have? Were you asking Garner that or?
 I think it'd be more, I mean, Garner or Kitt, like what legal, what can the city do to guarantee that the building gets rehabbed instead of them building 10 buildings, getting their certificate of occupancy and then go, never mind, we're not going to do. No, no, they can't do that. Go ahead, Kitt.
 Well, you sat with the Planning Commission yourself, Council Member Scroggins, as well as Sarah March, I mean, Sarah Bunch also. And occasionally a conditional use permit is brought back in to be revoked because...
 the person hasn't been doing the right thing following the conditions that were required by the Planning Commission. And if that would happen, and the planning and the condition would be revoked, then nothing could happen on that land in pursuant to the authority that this conditional use permit allowed. So yes, construction would be stopped, certificate of bankruptcy would not be granted,
 And so I think there's a big hammer that the city would have to ensure that the conditions that will have been approved by the Planning Commission and possibly later approved here or at least having the conditional use continued, that those conditions will be followed. And if they're not followed, then the entire development that's based upon them would be stopped.
 And certainly no one would want that, especially not the developer. So I think that there is a real strong impetus to get this done properly. And if there is a failure,
 then the city certainly has very strong remedies to stop the development if, in fact, the historic building is not being taken care of properly and being remodeled and put back into proper shape so that it could, in fact, be rented.
 So I think, yes, there's strong measures that the city has, and I'm sure that we would do that because we enforce our conditional use permits. Thank you. I just wanted the denial of occupancy or certificate of occupancy kind of on the record. So thanks. What other questions do we have from the council? Okay. All right. Well, I suppose we'll take some public comment now, and everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes to speak.
 They'll be in three and two minute segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will go first. Who would like to address the council tonight? Mayor Duncan Johnson is first. Okay. Go ahead. Mr. Johnson, can you unmute? Mr. Johnson, here you go. Go ahead.
 We're good. Thank you for hearing me. I live at 2732 East London Dairy Drive. I live in that community and we have profusely as a community gone against this infill
 I understand infill but this neighborhood was derived in 26 years ago and I understand you want to do infill but this will hurt our lake that we have. It will harm light and other things.
 you know, it will bother our whole community. And we did not sign up for an infill situation. So turning left out of Londonderry or meandering way in Fayetteville, I've lived in Fayetteville my whole life and it's one of the worst left turns known to man.
 So I would ask that this not be put in place. It will make things worse. And thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Carlton Holt. Go ahead. I'm afraid we can't hear you, Carlton. We'll come back to you when you get your audio fixed. Wiley Hood. Yes, ma'am. Can you hear me?
 Yes. Thank you. We feel, my name is Wiley Hood. I live at 1643 North Arfish Court. We've been here several years.
 And we bought into this neighborhood for many reasons. And we don't feel that this infeed, this building project is going to match our neighborhood. So rezoning the property will hurt us in many ways. One, it's going to reduce or negatively impact the value of our homes. And we've been told that that won't be considered when you're looking at a comparable, when you're looking at comparables from real estate agents. That's simply not true.
 If a house is 1,100 square feet and it's right next to mine that's 2,200 square feet, it most certainly will. And so that's one impact it's going to have. Another that was mentioned earlier is the traffic. Crossover is a major artery north to south on the east side, and it's very difficult to get in and out as it is. Adding just another group of traffic coming in and out or coming on and off the crossover is going to make it even worse.
 And lastly, I think it brings things such as dumpsters and commercial properties to our neighborhood, which we just simply don't want. Development doesn't match our neighborhood. It'll bring problems for the residents boardwalk, including safety, congestion, and lowering of property value. So we ask that you preserve our neighborhood and not allow this to go forward. Thank you. Back to Carlton Holt, are you there? I'm sorry, Carlton, we cannot hear you.
 I'm sorry, it's just a high-pitched squeal. We're going to move on to Kim Patron. Go ahead. Kim, can you unmute your mic? Kim, we'll come back to you. Let's see, Matthew Robinson. Hi, I hope you can hear me. My name is Matthew Robinson. Go ahead, I can hear you.
 Perfect. My name is Matt Robinson. I live at 2654 East Meandering Way, right next, right close to where this property is being developed. I have three main concerns with the CUP and the development. The first involves traffic. Where this entrance is proposed is directly across from Inwood. It's it's.
 Couple hundred feet down from meandering way and then boardwalk Turning turning left across crossover from there is already a nightmare tons of traffic in the morning tons of traffic coming back in the evening With that commercial development that they're wanting to do on the front side of that. That's only increasing the traffic Right there it for those those morning commutes and
 My second concern is the drainage that this will create into our pond. The pond that the POA owns is actually part of Fayetteville City drainage plan. And...
 previous developments have have put lots of sediment into that pond we're having to maintain that and take care of it and it just keeps getting worse and worse and so we we're very concerned about that we're also concerned about the uh the effect that uh this development right right there will have on our poa amenities
 We're putting these homes with not a whole lot of buffer right next to a family area. There's not any traffic on that private road. Kids are riding their bikes there. Development means they pretty much can't go over there during the development time. It's a big family area and that's affecting that.
 there are some other concerns that i had those those were the three main um the two others that that i'm thinking of offhand are putting a road right in somebody's backyard to their traffic driving right behind them you know people when they moved into these uh homes in our subdivision didn't intend to have a road in their backyard um um the
 you know preservation um that that house could still be preserved as a clubhouse so it doesn't need to be commercial space but that commercial space really um concerns me um bringing extra traffic right there especially when the city council previously just denied a rezoning because this is a heavy residential space right across the street there on whippoorwill thank you
 Let's try Carlton Holt again. Carlton? Sorry, Carlton. It's just not working. Kathleen Hood? Can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Hi, this is Kathleen Hood. I live at 1643 North Arthur's Court. Everything that's been said, I just second it. This is a residential neighborhood. There are families that live here in just homes. The thought of having a commercial property in the middle, just smack in the middle of residential homes, just doesn't make any sense.
 There are multiple children on our streets and on behind where this development is going to go into. They're riding their bikes. There will be 10 or 12 amount of time. It's a major safety issue for our neighborhood. I also want to bring...
 to the point there are so many wrecks right outside of our neighborhood. I have not been able to do the research, but I would love to know how many wrecks have happened there in the last three years. When my 16 year old learned to drive, she herself had to cross over just by trying to get turned left and, and moving into the turn lane, adding that many more properties there and commercial, it just makes it super unsafe because,
 I feel like that evidence is out there. There has to be record of all the wrecks that have happened there.
 like he said before, our neighborhood pool and our green space is right behind where they're talking about developing a property with so many homes and commercial property. And it just doesn't line up. It's not the same. These are residential homes. I know Richie Lamb used the term estate homes. We are not estate homes. We're just a residential neighborhood. My home is 2,200 square feet. That's not a stay home. It's just a home, but they're homes. They're single family homes, not commercial.
 So I would just ask that the city council really look out for us as a neighborhood and look out for our kids in this neighborhood and really just general safety on crossover. Even if people, you know, were to move in there, it'd be unsafe for the new residents there to try to wait and turning left in the morning. I mean, until you do it, it's just unbelievable in the morning and at five o'clock. So adding a bunch more homes makes no more sense. So I just asked that you would preserve our neighborhood. I also want to say that historic home could be preserved.
 by anyone who buys that property. It doesn't have to be this particular development or developer that could protect that home. That could be protected by other people. So thank you for protecting our neighborhood. Appreciate it. Who else would like to address? We'll try Kim Patron again. Kim, can you unmute? We'll come back to you. Mike Paisley, Mike Paisley. Go ahead. Can you hear, excuse me, can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, my name is Mike Pasley. My wife, Pam, and I live at 2692 East Meandering Way. We moved there about six years ago. Our house is on the southwest corner of the private drive that gives access for our neighborhood to the pool, the lake, the tennis courts, and so forth. One of my major concerns, and I do think that...
 Mr. Lamb has worked diligently to try to hear the things that we have said. Some of these things are probably not resolvable. But my concern is for the well-being of the community that will live in what he is developing, as well, particularly the five of my neighbors who live adjacent to that property. As I look at what he's planned, I see that there are carport-covered parking spaces, two per unit.
 And then there are 26, I think, parking spaces along the front of the cluster housing divided evenly. There's 13 on that side and 13 on the back side of the commercial property to be built and the Peter Smith house that's going to be preserved and changed into commercial property. Yeah.
 I recognize the need for varied housing all across Fayetteville, and I appreciate that. I can't remember which gentleman on the planning council spoke to the reality that the survey revealed that that's what citizens want, except they don't want it in their neighborhood. And I would certainly agree with that. I really don't want this in my neighborhood. If it's going to pass, I could really hope that.
 that these homes that are disproportionately, and I realize it's cluster homes, but some of the designs that we saw stand in stark contrast in their aesthetic compared to what Mr. Lamb calls our estate homes. And I really kind of resent that. This is a home I've worked all of my life to move into. I'm 68 years old. I hope to finish out my days there.
 It does not represent a state home. It represents the home of my dreams and my wife's dreams. And I think that that's unfortunate that he would call my house an estate home. It's a relatively modest home compared to the neighborhood adjacent to us, Somersby. But nonetheless, I would want the people to enjoy what I enjoy that move into the community that he's going to develop.
 I'm not convinced that the parking issue is good for that community. Two parking places for a three-bedroom house, if you've got a couple that has a teenager that's driving, where are they going to park their car? And I know this is limited-use commercial property, but if those properties were to have business dealings on Saturday, and these people intend to have any guests at their home ever, I think the congestion would be –
 Amazing. Beyond that, his plan that we have been able to see, which we were not afforded to look at until just before this went to the Planning Commission the last time, there's no indication of where I assumed that that commercial property would have to have a dumpster and either the cluster housing has to have individual bins as our neighborhood does, or else it would have to have a collective dumpster similar to the commercial.
 And I hope the city will look very carefully. I struggle to understand how what I see going along our streets, collecting our bins, could easily maneuver there. Then one other concern I have for the quality of life of the people who live in that community is his plan calls for a gate on the southwest corner of that property that would only be accessible to emergency vehicles.
 An ambulance or a police car could easily access that property off of crossover. But if they do have a fire, I recently watched one of our fire trucks go to an emergency call at our clubhouse. And when they had finished their call, they had to back out. They could not turn around. And I have very grave doubts about that.
 that a fire truck could make its way, make a sharp right turn from our private drive, and I stress that it's a private drive. It's between my property and the person immediately to my east. It is private property, and it's a private drive. I have trouble believing that a fire truck could make that turn and answer a call to one of those residences, particularly if it's on the backside next to the Patron's property. Okay.
 I believe that this is too densely settled, particularly in the area of parking, in the area of trash collection, and in the area of emergency personnel in case there was a fire. And I would say that has absolutely nothing to do with me. That's notwithstanding the drainage issue to our pond that has already been addressed. And I appreciate your listening to me. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Lou Patron. Lou, can you unmute? Well, may we have both Lou and Kim? There you go. Okay, thank you. My husband is so sweet. He gave me his phone and he'll log on later under mine if that's okay.
 I would like to thank the City Council and the City for having such great materials posted on the website. That has been of great use to me as I process this proposal. I've looked at the City Plan 2040 and found it useful. The plan repeatedly speaks of appropriate infill and acknowledges that not all infill is appropriate.
 There is extensive discussion of appropriate infill, including walkability, proximity to transportation, and employment clusters, none of which exist with this proposal. And now I'm going to raise some problems with the CUP that directly relate to the not appropriate nature of this infill.
 First, I did study the infill assessment map where the city tries to look out there and kind of forecast where is there possible suitability for infill. And it's a map with shading. We are very lightly shaded in that map with darker shading indicated suitability. Thus, we are indicated on the city's own map as more likely not suitable for infill.
 And why is that? It exacerbates existing problems. I think Matt spoke earlier about the drainage into the pond. Storm drains from Summersbee and elsewhere have just filled our pond with dirt from other developments. So it's quite shallow. A huge percentage of the CUP proposal is impervious surface area. It's going to generate significant runoff across our POA property.
 You know, we have a pool that's 25 years old. What will happen when that soil becomes so saturated or flooding around it? And we have not had any problems in the history of that pool.
 Traffic, I mean, I'll just briefly touch on that because Kathleen and others have mentioned how dangerous it is around here. The data presented at the Planning Commission meeting just looked at this tiny little sliver of land where the cars would be pulling out. If you expand that search, as Kathleen alluded to, to 200 meters down, and that's reasonable because cars are flying on this stretch at 50 miles an hour easily. It's 45 is the speed limit.
 And so 50, 55, that is very easy to see. And so the accidents happen 200 yards down, but they're started by this area right here with meandering way, Inwood, Whippoorwill and Boardwalk all feeding in there.
 Also, we already have so many empty commercial spaces for lease and sale at the Mission Crossover area, which is designated for commercial use. There are multiple lots for sale. There's a big development going in with the Eureka Pizza expansion and several office spaces there. I logged on to Lindsay and looked at commercial spaces, and I would say there's over a dozen empty lots or spaces for rent based on the Lindsay listing and also my driving around.
 Now it creates new problems in addition to exacerbating those old problems. I read the 2018 comments of the survey from the citizens, and many of them noted the difficulty of putting infill in small spaces, and that's exactly what's proposed here. Ten homes in roughly a one-acre plot.
 The entire lot is 1.88 acres, I believe, but they have to have a road running down the middle, and these cluster homes are bunched on the back. It's very dense. It comes within a few feet of my property line as well as the POA property line. It disrupts a cohesive neighborhood. The plan speaks of community character. These older neighborhoods like ours and the Oaks, we have a character worth protecting.
 All along, we had a committee communicating with the developer and we said, we are glad to work with you. If you can develop, you know, in align with what we have in our covenants, you know, we would advocate for the neighbors to vote to bring that in. You know, we have so many children playing on that street. In conclusion, 101 people in the Boardwalk neighborhood signed a petition opposing the CUP. Okay.
 And there's just one person opposed to us. And they just disparaged all of us in their opening comments, which I found so unproductive, but illuminative as to how this process has been for my neighborhood. They never brought a plan to us. We had to see the plan by downloading it from the city's website. They would speak with us and ask for us to make concessions, but never tell us what exactly they were planning.
 He paid a bit over $300,000 for this about two years ago when Richie said he got involved in 2018. The lot is now listed as commercial and over $675,000. So this real estate speculation is just hurting our neighborhood. And so I ask you to pass a resolution invalidating fully this CUP. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? We'll try Carlton Holt again.
 Hello, testing. Yes. Can you hear me? Yeah, both of you. It's echoing. Okay, just a minute. Just a minute. Okay, I'm on. You hearing me now? Yes, I believe I can hear you. Okay, here we go. Boy, this has been something else.
 Good evening. My name is Dr. Carlton R. Holt. My wife Judy and I have lived at 2498 East Meandering Way for over 20 years. The homes are predominantly brick with front and backyards where children play. The 10 proposed two-story cluster housing units with a very modern design are incompatible with our neighborhood.
 The location of this proposed project is of significance since it rests directly between Meandering Way and Boardwalk.
 Nowhere do the plans show a ground level view of the surrounding properties, nor the proximity to the property owners' backyards, nor to the neighborhood clubhouse, pool, tennis courts, pond, and picnic area. This is a genuine concern."
 No part of this proposal acknowledges any compliance with the POA use guidelines for these areas. Then there's the very real traffic safety issue. The current plan shows some 40-plus parking spaces, which translates into more vehicles entering, exiting, and already very congested crossovers.
 The turning lane helps, of course. However, crossing traffic remains a very real challenge. This would only enhance the issue. Also, business this far south of the Mission Crossover Interchange would generate, however, more traffic challenges. There is also the question of emergency vehicles, fire trucks.
 how would they maneuver in and out of the area? This is a significant safety issue for all of us. This for all of us.
 And the question is, has the fire department okayed this? I know it takes a fire truck about a turn of 20 feet, but that road on the south side is really narrow for even two cars to pass. And when the cars are parked at the clubhouse, it is really tight. The developer originally wanted to demolish the Smithstone house.
 As of the okay by the planning commission, he would still be allowed to demolish parts of the home and since nothing was mentioned about the small existing structure beside it, has it been okayed for demolition as well? This developer is not a resident of our community.
 we request you consider the residents of our neighborhood and our city and the 100 plus signatures on the petition against this proposal. Once it's built, the rest of us have to live with it. Now, I don't know what happened with the change tonight, but we don't think this needs to be on that location. I wanna thank you for your time and listening to me.
 about this concern. Thank you. Thank you. You have no more public comments, Mayor. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Well. Mayor. Yes, go ahead. Thank you. I had a couple of questions just to make sure I had all my facts straight. Maybe Garner would be the best person to answer these questions. Although if it's the applicant, feel free to jump in or if it's somebody else.
 My first question is the property under question a part of any adjacent property or homeowners association? I'm not aware that there's any relationship between the this property and the adjacent POA, but Richie might have some more information. Yes, I'll answer that. No, there's no POA involved in this property at any point in its history.
 Okay. It seemed like from the way some of the comments were going that it seemed like some people thought that this was supposed to be subject to those standards, so I had to ask. Mr. Lamb, I heard you, I listened carefully during your presentation, and I heard you talk a little bit about home prices, and we heard a little bit of public comments that speculated about home values. I wanted to ask you, in your estimation, would the
 Sales price of the homes you build on a per square foot basis, do you think those would be higher or lower than the historic sale prices on a per square foot basis of the adjacent subdivisions? Well, undoubtedly they would be higher. You still have the most expensive elements of a home being your kitchens and your bathrooms and your mechanical systems. You just don't have
 the quantity of square foot in other spaces like bedrooms and living areas. And so, yes, undoubtedly they will be more, they'll be priced higher per square foot than any of the homes in the existing subdivisions. And another point that I'll make is that in standard appraisal practice,
 you would never use a home of this size that we're proposing being less than 1700 square feet in appraisal practice you would never use that as a comparable sale for a home that's 2250 square feet or greater so they would never become a factor in the value of any of those homes
 I appreciate you explaining that because it seems like if an appraiser did use these homes and looked at the per square foot basis, they might even inflate the value of adjacent properties relative to what their true value is. The last question I had is certainly for Garner. Garner, I wanted to ask you if you would explain
 Briefly, I know you covered a lot of ground before, but what are the top reasons the planning staff is recommending we uphold the CUP? We, just from a policy standpoint, it brings a lot to the table in terms of the comprehensive plan housing, affordable housing, mixed use
 But we also looked at the specific reasons for appeal and we feel that this application addresses all those reasons that are already addressed. I might add another fact which is that the application
 This, the cluster housing is subject to all our storm drainage requirements, which means total retentions of increased flow as well as water quality. If it were developed under the single family district, assuming it wouldn't be a large subdivision, which it couldn't be, it wouldn't be subject to those standards.
 I'm sorry, I might ask you to repeat yourself. I want to ask just a different way, so I'll make sure that's as plain as possible. Okay. Did you just say that if this property were developed to its maximum extent under an RSF district like it's currently zoned, that it would not be subject to those standards whatsoever? No, I...
 The most likely, under the existing zoning, if they use the lot split method, they would not. I can't imagine getting, it's four units per acre, it's 1.8, I don't think you would see a substantial subdivision, so I would expect a couple homes. Theoretically, Council Member, it could come under it if they propose a subdivision.
 water retention and water quality could come under it but what i was pointing out with this cup it does come under it and it may very well not come under it without it okay thank you you've given me much to think about is um mayor is chief hardin terrible yep
 Chief, could you help us understand about the fire truck situation and the use of private property driveways, or how does that usually go? That was mentioned by someone. So we did review this plan, and due to it being greater than 150 foot, the fire code does require that we have a secondary access, which would be a fire access, emergency access, and that private lane, the fire code,
 Broadway or boardwalk, they do or it does meet the needed. I mean, it's 20 foot wide. It's supposed to have a gate there that we can access in case of emergency. The other options, I mean, if that was not available, we also give the option of a, you know, a cul-de-sac or a hammerhead. Some means for us to be able to turn our fire apparatus around.
 So you're saying you all were okay with this particular? Oh yes, yes. What we have in front of us, I mean the design that was presented to us, yes, we were okay with it. Okay. Providing that gate is there, we can have secondary means of access. It meets the fire code. Okay. Thank you, Chair. You bet. I might also point out, Mayor and Council, that,
 We're dealing with a conceptual plan and the next step would be a development approval process which would be either small improvement plan but more likely a large-scale improvement plan approved by the Planning Commission where storm drainage and fire access and all the other issues would be tied down. I do have another question. Thanks, Garner.
 Is there any plan for a light or what kind of traffic measures? Is that what you're talking about? That would be decided or determined later at a later date? Or what do we have short-term plan for traffic situation? Maybe that's a Chris Brown question. I'm not sure. If Chris is on it, I'd be happy to allow him to answer it. But Council Member, this parcel does have access, legal access. It's a 1.8-acre parcel.
 They're showing it as a divided entrance in the conceptual plan. But my point is the parcel can't be landlocked. I guess more I meant like, you know, many people just were asking about a left turn and how dangerous that is there. Is there any way that we can, you know,
 And I have also tried to turn out, you know, on to crossover at a very busy time, and that is a valid point. So I guess I'm just trying to understand kind of what measures or evaluation the, you know, plan goes through to help ensure safety. Ms. Mike's muted. Thank you.
 governor i can't hear you i'm sorry mayor okay can you hear me now yeah yep the large-scale development process will look at ingress and egress the conceptual plan shows a divided one way in with a median in the middle one way out whether or not something can be done to facilitate a left turn
 I don't know. But it is identical to the other access points along this stretch of crossover. Okay, great. Thank you. And I don't know, I know I have seen certain places, definitely on MLK, which I don't think that crossover is as busy as MLK, but I have seen places where you can't make a left turn and you can't make a left turn maybe just, you know,
 especially during certain traffic times. I know near the university because of games probably, but I think that we're looking at crossover as a similar type way, obviously not as busy, but I do wonder if we're going to be looking at developments that we might consider that definitely want people's safety in mind. So maybe if that's the case that we need to look at it. I think those are all my questions for now.
 I've got two things. One, I don't think we should vote on this tonight. Definitely want more readings. And then two, I would like to see the, I guess, traffic study and, well, not a study, the rec data around there. So that was my two things. Thank you.
 So I understand the concern about traffic. I've worked in this corridor and needed to turn left, and it is bad. But it's bad because people are having to drive everywhere they need to go because we don't have enough services or jobs or active transportation connections or transit.
 providers down there. And I think the answer to the traffic issue along that corridor is to densify to the point that we can actually support viable public transit, as well as to diversify the employment and service offerings in that area. Crossover Road is part of the mayor's box around the city. And if commercial development is not appropriate on the mayor's box around the city, I'm not sure where else it should go. So that seems very appropriate.
 And in thinking about this property, trying to envision what would be a better development scenario to go there, because it is private property that does have development rights, and it's in a key, highly desirable area, so it will be developed.
 And honestly, you know, my priority number one for that property is preserving that historic home. I had the opportunity to tour that home with the Historic and Heritage Resources Action Group. And it is very significant and unique, and we as a community must prioritize saving that, and this is a great plan that will enable that.
 As far as the neighbors assertion that it should be used as a clubhouse, well then that has to be supported with POA dues, which further increases the cost of housing. We already have a housing crisis in this community and a critical shortage of smaller homes.
 I'm not sure where the assertion is that these are not family homes. I see all of them have three bedrooms. And besides that, families come in all different sizes and at all different income levels and with different needs. So I think that this is really doing a lot to help us with that diversity of housing types. It seems like the site plan has been designed with a lot of those considerations in mind. Now, I agree that the architecture is...
 I'd rather see something that was more compatible with what is existing, but we don't regulate design in this community where we regulate use and density and environmental impacts, but we do not regulate design for better or for worse. You know, I was just looking at, I just ran some comps as a realtor. I like to do that when we're talking about these projects and see kind of what these,
 what these areas go for. And the average home price per square foot within a quarter mile radius of that site is $141 a square foot, which at the size of the homes that they're proposing that we mirror, that puts us at over $360,000, which is far out of reach of the average wage earner in the city of Fayetteville.
 And meanwhile, you know, if you're looking at homes that are in the $200,000 range, we've only got 13 of those on the market and they averaged sitting there 33 days, which a balanced market is about 90 days on the market. So we clearly, the data shows that we have.
 have a shortage of these smaller, less expensive properties and a critical need for them. And I think that this plan does a really good job addressing that. And I agree with the concerns about light pollution. I think we need to take that very seriously. And I hope this neighborhood would advocate for retrofitting the Cliffs Apartments, which is right down the road and one of the most egregious offenders of light pollution in that corridor.
 But we have dark sky standards. I think we've got this written into the CUP process so that that will be addressed. So I'm ready to support. I want to support continuing the planning commission's finding and allowing this development to move ahead and building some much needed smaller housing and more services and job opportunities in that neighborhood. Thanks. Thanks.
 Okay, so I'm one of the people that brought this forward for a revisit. And I did this at the request, and I guess my fellow council members Mark Kenyon and Theresa Turk also did this at the request of several people in the neighborhood back behind this. And I would like to say that, you know, as a council, we try.
 try to, you know, we're always trying to do what we think is the right thing to do. But we also have to listen to our community as much as we possibly can. And I think there's been some comments that we, you know, this is planning has gone through and how could we even revisit this at all and have an appeal of it, but
 My, let me first start with the things that that that speak to me as a development as this is a development, and why you know some of the things that may sound counterintuitive here but some of the things that I think are appropriate about this development are, you know, National Association of Realtors.
 has their statistics say that houses are getting smaller. There's a lot of reasons for that. Now that's cost. That's people just can't, the cost of development, the cost of buying a home is so high that a lot of houses are smaller now. A lot of people just want to start out with a little bit smaller house. So at our peak,
 When we were in the early 2000s, you know, 26 years ago when boardwalk was built, a lot of houses were larger. Those are wonderful houses over there. But to say that this might not be compatible because it's a little bit different, I would like, you know, I would love if it was, if it had a similar look to the other properties in that area. But there is also a higher density property.
 I believe they are condos at the entrance of Park Place subdivision. I think it's called St. James Court. It is very dense there, much smaller units. And that has been there, I believe, since the subdivision was built, Park Place, which is just around the corner from this. So it's not uncommon to see condos.
 When you start out in an area, you have smaller houses up closer to the main highway. And as you get back into one subdivision and another subdivision that are further away from the highway, sometimes the houses get bigger. That is not uncommon at all. But the things that concern me about this are the traffic. And that is one thing that we absolutely can look at when we're looking at traffic.
 a rezoning or something of this nature is the traffic of the area.
 And I do not think this is a safe area to pile more higher density in. There are a lot of wrecks on Crossover and there's not any way it is a state highway. It has the same problems when we look at maybe not quite as much traffic as certainly not as much as MLK, but not as much as Weddington, but some of the same problems.
 It's a state highway. We can't just slap a turn signal or a stoplight down somewhere. And it seems like we have this between 265 and Mission Boulevard, Crossover and Mission Boulevard, and Crossover and Huntsville Road. There's only two stoplights there.
 And it really is a fast moving area and it's designed to move traffic along fast. And I think it's a little unsafe as it is. It's very congested through there. And that's a big concern of mine is the traffic. Now, as far as the walkability of this neighborhood, yes, there are amenities close by.
 But no one really wants to walk along crossover road if they have a choice, because if you're not protected from the traffic that's going 50 miles an hour, and there are not very good crosswalks when you get to the intersection of Mission and crossover, it's, if you've ever tried to walk that, it
 people are always turning into pedestrians there. I don't know that they're literally hitting them, but you're always seeing people stopping in the crosswalk because a car has turned in front of them. And it's a long crosswalk too to get across crossover, like if you were going to the neighborhood market. Similarly, if you were crossing and going over to the Harp store. So while there are amenities there,
 It's not a, you know, it's unfortunate that it's not a pleasant or safe feeling walk. And I have actually walked in this area before. So it's much, it's very similar to what you have on Weddington Drive, where in transportation committee, we've talked about what do we do first? You know, do we have the sidewalks first? Do we wait till someone gets hit before we make it safer? It's a lot of issues there with traffic and walkability that I have concerns with. Okay.
 And I'm also a little bit concerned about the screening that we talked about. Is there going to be sufficient screening between the back of this property and the houses that are next to it?
 True, it is a, it does belong, the property does belong to someone else. And they have, you know, I'm a real proponent of your right to develop your property. And I often, you know, we have the statement that if you wanted to protect that property and keep anyone from building on it.
 You know, you should have bought it yourself. I mean, we've heard that before, but I do worry that the screening might not be sufficient for the homes that are already there. You know, so there's some issues like that that I have a lot of concern with, but my main concern is the traffic, and that's what I'm going to close with.
 I have some comments. I don't think we should vote on this tonight because I'd like a little bit more information. I'd really like to see if there's any kind of traffic study that was done. And if there wasn't, could we just get a list of accidents in the last five years in that area? I'd like to see if there were any pedestrian accidents because...
 As Sarah just pointed out, that is not a Walker-friendly area, unfortunately. I think it's got great potential, but it's not there right now. I think right now you would really definitely be taking your life at hand to walk across 265.
 The other thing that I'd really like to find out, and I realize that this is a conceptual plan that we've seen tonight and it's not the final plan, but the amount of impermeable surface that is planned in that area. That would be very helpful to get an idea or to know about and also being able to scale it with the gradient.
 I didn't get a chance to go over there and drive around this week, but I will do that. I don't know if we would like to have a tour or not. That would be something that we might want to consider to get a better idea about the change in elevation. If there is one and just a better feel about that, that property, that area. Um,
 But I am extremely concerned about the traffic. That is just a really, that area is just so congested all the time. So I would hope that we could get a little bit more information and not vote on it tonight. Thank you. What else do we, comments do we have?
 I'd just like to ask the question that are we really going to let poor roadway design be a barrier to building more diversity of housing, which our community desperately needs? You know, I feel that the issue here isn't that this housing development or mixed-use development is inappropriate. It's that we have done a terrible job with that transportation corridor. Right.
 And that that is the problem we need to be solving because people need housing that they can afford and that suits their family and household size. And that's a critical shortage that we have. So how do we improve this transportation corridor to enable the type of housing that our community needs? And I'd just like to leave us with that question, thanks.
 That is a very good question there because it, you know, it's, but one of the things we do consider with any development is the traffic potential and the danger of the traffic there. So we have had, we've had a request from Sloan that we potentially table this.
 I would like to move to table this item because I think to adequately give it the time and attention that it's due. I know it's already been through planning and all of that, but I think we need to table this item and would maybe possibly have a site visit. It, you know, actually I've been on that site before.
 sometime back there I've showed that that old house or something like that a property it's been years ago but I think I might benefit from a site visit myself if you guys would be in favor of that um you know whenever we bring something forward like this I always reserve the right to change my mind uh you know so site visit might change my mind it might not so but I'd love to have a site visit is anyone else is anyone else interested in that yes I would like to see it
 Okay. For them. So I would like to make a motion to table this item for possibly at least until our next meeting. Which would be on the 1st. Yes, but it's just the next meeting. Yeah. The first meeting in November. It's going to be November 5th, 2020, Mayor. Okay. Thank you. I'll second that. Okay. So we have a motion and a second to table to the first meeting of...
 November, correct? Yes. All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turr? Yes. Mint? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. That's a lot of information in that.
 particular item. I'd like to do a little research on it myself. All right, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Well, Mayor, it's time to celebrate.
 You guys might have already seen the announcement, but for the fifth year in a row, Fayetteville did receive in the top 10 best places to live in the U.S. News and World Report rankings of 150 cities based on the indices of job market, housing affordability, quality of life, desirability, and net migration placed us again in the top 10. So congratulations.
 We're all very proud to be having that recognition. Great accomplishment. Also, I wanted to let everybody know that our City Board of Health has discussed a number of different,
 protocols and safety guidelines as we look toward the Halloween season and in media release dr. Marty Sharkey thank you for our City Board of Health officer and who put out an announcement about some really good and
 interesting alternative alternative and safe ways for trick-or-treating this information is on the city's website and also an important announcement about safe mask wearing when you have when you double up a face mask or the pandemic with a costume you want to be careful how you do that
 Our Celebration of Trees giveaway, one of the reasons our city is great, in recognition of Arbor Day and helping grow our city's urban forest. The annual Celebration of Trees giveaway will be this Saturday, October 24th at 7 a.m. at the Spring Street parking deck. A number of species will be available, first come, first serve. A reminder that everyone who has a business in Fayetteville, the business license renewal program,
 window will close on October 31st. Please feel free to use the self-service business portal. And finally, the last bulky waste drop-off of the season will be an award for bulky waste drop-off this Saturday, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Holcomb Elementary and also at the Recycling Trash Center on Happy Hollow Road. Thank you.
 Okay. Mayor, I want to say it was my honor and privilege today to vote early, and the polling place was very calm, very full. It took about 30 minutes for me to get through, and by the time I got out, it was probably longer than that.
 everybody was wearing face masks it was all handled very professionally and courteously and so I encourage anybody that wants to vote early to go ahead and do it it was you know the hallmark of our country is voting so I hope everybody goes out and votes I did an interview on that very thing today so all right well that concludes our business we are adjourned