I would like to call the City Council meeting of October the 20th, 2015 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Here. Schottmeyer. Here. Loutere. Present. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? Pledge of allegiance of the United States of America.
 for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, free, and justice for all. First order of business we have tonight is, number one, public facilities board appointment. I'm appointing... Ethan Cosby? Yes. To the board of the public facilities board. Is there any questions on that? You might want to tell them what they do, Kent. Okay.
 Well, this is a board that has helped build the Butterfield Trail Village by issuing bonds, which we're not responsible for, but which we look at. Mr. Cosby has been on that board quite a while, serves as one of the officers. His term expired and no one applied for it, and so he's graciously agreed to continue to serve on that board.
 And the ordinance in the state law says that the mayor shall appoint upon confirmation by the city council. So I would ask the city council to have a motion to confirm the appointment of Stephen Cosby. So moved. Second. The motion is seconded. I point Stephen Cosby to the Public Facilities Board. Any discussion on that? Yes, John. What does Mr. Cosby do for a living? Nothing.
 He might actually be a competitor of yours. I'm not sure though. But I do know he's a well respected and long time Fayetteville citizen, has been on this board for a long time. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Any other discussion?
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmutter? Yes. Loutier? Yes. OK. Number two, Ozark Regional Transit presentation. I believe, Joel, you have that for us?
 Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, my name is Joel Gardner. I am the executive director of Ozark Regional Transit. And first and foremost, I want to apologize for not being here at the last city council meeting. Too many wires got crossed, and this is one of the items that got missed, and I regret that.
 I wanted to just bring you quickly up to date on Ozark Regional Transit. Over the last eight months through the month of August, Ozark Regional Transit continues to grow in northwest Arkansas. One of the things that are of significance is that 43% of our ridership comes from Fayetteville. We are on task to have 2015 be another record year of ridership within northwest Arkansas, expecting well over 320,000 rides.
 uh... on the fixed route and paratransit systems
 One of the things to also note is that as ridership on the fixed route continues to grow, there is a slight decrease in our demand response and paratransit in Fayetteville, and that is by design. Our goal is to move people from the demand response door-to-door, curb-to-curb service to the fixed route so that they have a little bit more freedom, they can come and go as they please, and we don't have to worry about so many scheduling difficulties.
 As we have rolled into 2015, some of our significant challenges have been a loss of, over the last two months, 66% of my financial staff. I did have a death in my chief financial officer, and then, of course, my newly promoted chief financial officer went off on maternity leave. So we have been, over the last two months, been spending quite a bit of time burning the candle at all ends,
 to go ahead and achieve everything from procurement uh... to financial records to payroll uh... everything else that we've been that has been going on what is used to be done by four is now being done by two uh... myself pitching in and assisting but really karen eckles is uh... taking the brunt of everything and just doing a stellar job
 We have seen a significant change in our automated vehicle locator systems over the last year. Those are the systems that when you get on our website, you can see where the vehicle is from point to point. The company that provides that for us, their hardware was bought out by their competitor. So we've been slowly switching over throughout this year to their new hardware that allows them to go ahead and communicate with the triangulation of the cellular locators.
 Another thing is updating of software. We've had our payroll software, along with our time card software, along with our accounts payable software, all get updates this year, probably in the last four months.
 those softwares all don't match at this point in time. So we're still doing a lot of day-to-day work to make sure that everything that gets plugged in gets plugged in where it's supposed to be. So it's been a lot of significant challenges this year, but we are plugging on. We are still looking at another stellar year as far as ridership in northwest Arkansas, and we couldn't be doing this without the city of Fayetteville, and I thank you very much. Are there any questions? We have a question for Joe. Yes, Joe. Yes, sir.
 Mr. Garten, I'm very pleased to hear that your advance and your technology, you can triangulate and know where your buses are and know where your transits are. Yes, sir. I'm concerned with public safety right here in downtown area. Many days when I leave my office traveling west on Center Street, there is an indention in the street that was made to accommodate your buses. But many times there are more buses present than can be accommodated by that indention, that parking area. And your buses park right in the street.
 and people trying to get around your buses are taking risk to life and limb to do that. Is there some way your buses could coordinate so if the parking place is made for two buses, only two buses there at one time? Are we talking right in front of Hillcrest Towers, I believe it is? Yes, sir. We've looked at that. We've looked at it and looked at it, and the best thing that we can come up with, and I always call it shifting the clocks.
 So that if we're supposed to be at a location and let's call it the 00 mark of the hour, we shift it back a little bit so that it is, let's call it at the 45 mark of the hour. And we can shift it one way or another. And the difficulty that starts throwing into play is, okay, which schedules do we not match? And this is where...
 Time in planning, time in, and I don't want to say time in study because I don't like studying things just for the sake of studying things, but developing a way so that when somebody's coming from the east side of town and they're going to the west side of town, do they miss their bus by 15 minutes or do they have to wait by 15, wait 15 minutes for the next bus to come in? So it is a, it's a clock scheduling change.
 And it's just a matter of us figuring out how to do that because in that location right there We've got three of our buses plus a Razorback bus that comes in there And I know that we are creating an issue at this point in time, but how to best solve that issue I haven't come up with that yet. Let me suggest something. Yes, sir I will take it as a failsafe you can instruct your drivers if you get at that location and there's not a safe place to park you simply make the block until there is a safe place to park and
 I would think that a bus could load and unload probably in a minute or two. By the time you make the block, there would probably be an available parking place. Yes, sir. That would be a fail-safe. The drivers would be our last resort to ensure public safety. Yes, sir. And if you can't get into the designated spot, you don't park in the street, you make the block. Drop off on the...
 on the intersecting street of Central, and then that way it loops around until it's ready to go ahead and pull into a spot. Sure. Very good. That's a fail-safe. The driver would be your remedy of last resort. Yes, sir. If your schedules don't mesh or whatever, the triangulation is off, the driver, the human element, can make the final call. Yes, sir. Keep the public safe. That'd be a great idea. Well, I think it's a great idea. I will take that, sir. I will definitely take that. Great. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Any other questions for Mr. Cohn? All right. Ladies and gentlemen, again, thank you very much. Thank you, Joe. Thank you for all the work that you do. Yes, sir. Okay. The next order of business is consent agenda. Number one, approval of September 29, 2015, special city council meeting minutes. And number two.
 a resolution to approve federal police department policies and disciplinary and award procedures and professional standards and to eliminate federal policies no longer needed on jailer duty, jail emergency plan, prisoner care, and suicide identification. I'll entertain the motion to accept the consent agenda as read.
 We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Kennedy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Kottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. An unfinished business. Number one. An ordinance transferring administration of the retirement coverage for eligible members of the Federal Fire Pension and Relief Fund into...
 To the Arkansas local police and retirement system lofty and authorizing the mayor to enter into an irrevocable agreement opting and appointing an emergency approving an emergency clause. I'm going to entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. A motion to second to go to the second meeting. It's left on the first. Okay.
 Saunders, would you please call the roll? Long. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. An ordinance transferring administration of the retirement coverage for eligible members of the Fayetteville Fire Pension and Relief Fund to the Arkansas Local Police and Fire Retirement System, LOTFI, authorizing the mayor to enter into an irrevocable agreement with LOTFI and approving an emergency clause.
 Okay, at this time would Pete would you like to David Clark not like to make a presentation to the council? However, you wish to do it and then we'll just ask all the questions we want to all right Thank You mayor David Clark the executive director of Lopi and really tonight I'm just here to answer any follow-up questions that the council may have I think that we talked about
 through a lot of details back on the 29th of September. If there's questions regarding any of the scenarios that the mayor's office had asked for, the actuaries to run additional projections, we have Lawrence Watts, one of the actuaries, with the PRB side of the business, is available to answer any questions in that regard as well.
 But I think that we do have a good proposal for you from the LOPPE's actuarial report to show certainly in the near term that there would not be any out-of-pocket or additional cost to the city to consolidate the pension fund with LOPPE. Obviously, the question becomes what happens several years out, and I understand that that's the concern that the council currently has at this point.
 But with that, if there's any questions for me at this point, I can certainly answer them or wait until you guys have questions after other speakers are here. Okay. What questions? Yes, John. Mr. Clark, thank you again for coming and being interested in our questions. Yes, sir. We feel a bit of reluctance to sign onto a blank check. We're talking about an obligation in the future, but we can't get our minds around exactly what that is.
 and what we're committing our citizens to fund. Can you, through your actuarial services, maybe you ran a couple different scenarios, I'm not privy to everything you discussed with the administration, but could the benefits being paid out as a percentage of ending salary, could that be adjusted from 90% to something else that would make the fund solvent by itself? And if so, what would that rate be? Short answer is there's not a legal mechanism to reduce benefits.
 So that the 90% level of the benefits, those are the benefits that need to continue to be paid. So it would be against the law to reduce benefits? It would be against the law, that's correct. And that's the reason why there was a proposal in this last legislative session to actually enact the provision of law to permit a benefit reduction. But that did not make it out of the legislature.
 And who was lobbying for or against that law? Were you there? Actually, I was not there, but the system that I worked for, the PRB, did not support that proposal. And so, it actually made it out of the Joint Retirement Committee at the Capitol, then out of the House, and it was stopped in the Senate.
 And quite frankly, I think that that was a right outcome for that proposal legislation to be stopped. Because to try to reduce benefits now at this stage for these retirees, I mentioned this at the September meeting, that the PRB has taken the position that that would not be a moral action. These people have retired and in this case been retired for a number of years. Survivors have been retired for many years after they've lost their spouse and they're living on the benefit levels that they now have.
 To ask them to make an adjustment because the fund has not been properly funded for decades of time Is really not the correct way to attack this Yes, so
 But it was raised recently to 90%, correct? 2001. Okay. So it wasn't against the law to raise it, but it would be against the law to drop it back down. That's correct, because there's actually a provision in code that has the benefit increase process that has to be followed. And that's an excellent question that allows me to actually step into that territory, is
 is that the projected insolvent report or the special report that the PRB's actuaries produced show that there was three benefit increases that were enacted, 1996, 2001, and 2003. The law requires that at least three-fourths of the membership of the local board of trustees has to pass a resolution in order for the PRB to take action on that resolution.
 Now, there are seven trustees, so to have three-fourths, you can't have five and a quarter people, so you end up with six trustees actually pass the resolution. In all of the cases where those benefit increase resolutions were passed, it was a unanimous passing by the local board of trustees, which includes the mayor, not this mayor.
 and then the city clerk and only one resolution was Ms. Smith part of with the benefit increase process. It was predecessors. So my point is is that every benefit increase could have been stopped if one of the trust or two of the trustees had not actually passed the resolution. But as I've outlined in all cases except for one, and that had to do with the extension of drop from five years to ten years, it was seven trustees voted for the increase.
 Thank you for the clarification. So it was a unanimous vote? Absolutely, yes. Okay. Any other questions? John. Mr. Clark, I guess I would have an easier time agreeing to transfer this fund to LOPI if it wasn't firemen themselves sitting on that trustee board. In my mind, that's a conflict of interest. On that board, their charges are both fiduciary responsibilities. If I'm a trustee...
 My fiduciary responsibilities are enormous. If I'm walking down the street and I have $100,000 in the trust account and I have $100,000 in my personal account and I see a piece of land that I can buy and turn over in 30 days and double my money and I do it with my money and not the trust account, I will be disgorged of those profits because I should have done it for the trust because my duty is so strong.
 Here we have firemen who are beneficiaries of the fund sitting as fiduciaries, as trustees, managing that fund. And I think it was somewhat reckless of them to vote to increase their percentage of salary percentages without a good actuarial report. And I realize they have to vote for it, then you guys approve it, then some actuary approves it. But if the actuary, apparently the actuary was wrong. We're $9 million in a hole now. So apparently the actuary,
 I made a mistake. A couple of things. One, I have to agree with you up to a point as far as the example of the fiduciary responsibilities. You are correct. All seven of the trustees, which includes the city officials, are fiduciaries of the pension fund. However, when the benefit increases were enacted,
 when they were first passed on the resolution and that the PRB's actuary costed the request and then the PRB said yes or no. And in this case, for the three that I've outlined, it was always yes because the valuations came back showing that the requested changes could be afforded at that time. Obviously we now have the benefit of looking backwards.
 But my point is that the fiduciaries of the plan, they weren't just passing increases for themselves. It was for 60-some people at that time. So they weren't just changing benefits for themselves. It was for the entire population of the pension plan. I understand that.
 Our country is in $18 trillion worth of debt. I don't know how much that is. I can't get my mind around that number. Maybe you can. Maybe you can't either. People around here know how big that is.
 But I think we got there because nobody had the courage to stand up and say, this is good, this is good, this is good, but some things we just can't afford. My children would spend money on good things all the time, but I'm sorry, in our family budget, we have to budget. And we have to reserve funds for those things like clothing and shelter and hospital care and those essentials of life.
 Silver Dollar City doesn't quite make up for that level in my mind, although it would be good and fun. You see, and I think that's how we arrived at our 18 trillion dollars worth of debt. I've said on other occasions, I will give the maximum political contribution to the first politician who stands up and says, sorry folks, Social Security's broke. We stole the money and we bought votes with it and we did everything, all the other good things with it, but it's not there for you, so we just need to call a spade a spade and let it go by the wayside.
 But nobody will ever do that, I don't think. I think I'm pretty safe on my maximum political contribution. I would agree. But that's the courage I long for, is someone to call a spade a spade and say, this is what's happened, I'm sorry we took advantage of you, we stole your money, you know, whatever.
 On the national level, I have to completely agree with your comments. On the pension fund level, we have actually a bigger issue and that is the actuarially required contribution or what the pension fund needed to have in employer contributions coming in for decades of time was not made. That does not mean, let me follow this up really quickly, that does not mean the city violated law because they did not. The law was flawed in that it only required a matching contribution.
 The members had to contribute 6%. The city was only required to contribute 6%. I understand that the city had contributed 12% after a certain point in time, which was certainly a huge increase in employer contributions, but it still was not what the pension fund needed. And this was year after year, decade after decade. So the insolvency has been a confluence not just of benefit increases, which clearly put pressure on the funded level.
 But when there's not enough money coming in to begin with, that the valuations show need to be occurring, that too makes for, quite frankly, where we're at today. And that is a severely underfunded pension fund.
 Are we unique within the state of Arkansas? Are there other cities that are having this kind of problem? There are other cities. The one that was the largest pension fund that was in a similar situation was the Little Rock Police Pension Fund. And they consolidated or assigned the administration of their plan to Lopi in 2013.
 Now, they were able to do that. They used the 25-year amortization period, but they also had already gone to the voters and asked for a sales tax increase, and the premise of the increase was a portion of the revenue would come in for the police pension fund, and it also happens to be for the fire pension fund as well for Little Rock.
 They have a huge injection of cash coming in to help defray their costs. Now they're still having to dig into general fund because the pension fund was grossly underfunded, much worse than the Fayetteville plan. How close are we to our maximum millage rate for the farm and pension fund? Aren't we running up against a limit? No. When the pension plans were begun,
 the Constitution allows up to one mil for each plan. The voters approved one mil to be split between the two plans, so five-tenths of a mil. Then in 2001, Amendment 59 rollback required that all of the entities that had millage had to roll back their millage a little bit, and so both the funds were rolled back to four-tenths of a mil, five-tenths to four-tenths.
 At this point, there's still six-tenths of a mil available for each fund if the voters would vote to do that. It would be hard to make that dog hunt, I'm afraid. Six-tenths of a mil more, so they could each go up to one. Just last council meeting, we voted to increase the tax on our citizens. I'm not sure this would be the time to come back and ask them for more tax. That might be a political impossibility or unlikelihood anyway. Alan, you had a question?
 I did. Thank you for being here. Yes, sir. You said that the fund wasn't properly funded. Can you just basically say in what way you think the fund was not funded properly? You bet. The annual valuations, and I don't believe I pulled that sheet out of the latest valuation, the annual valuations, meaning that it's one that's produced every year. Lawrence?
 is that the computed contribution that was produced was, I'm gonna round this off for you, just over $3.2 million that was needed to come in, and that's over and above investment earnings. And what was actually put in by the employer, by the city, was just over $756,000, almost $757,000. So we went from 3.2 that needed to be put in, and $757,000 was actually what flowed into the pension fund.
 And that would have been needed to be put in that extra amount for five years in order to pay off the indebtedness or the actuarial indebtedness of the fund. The city has done everything that it is legally required to do on this. We continue to do that by paying the millage in there. There was not a requirement for us to match non-existent salary now because we have no active workers in here, so we're not required to make any kind of donations into this plan. In fact, I have a
 constitutional concerns about making donations of general fund revenue into the pension plan. I do have one question. Our finance director, Paul Becker, said that he talked to you about the agreement when I questioned about the fact that
 There was a fee in the agreement in paragraph 5 that says the annual fee paid to Lotfi for administration of the fire pension fund shall not exceed one-half of 1% of the annual payroll and 1% of the annual fire pension assets.
 And if 1% of the assets, which would be the pension fund, so then in order to get 8% return, you actually have to get 9% return. And he said that he had spoken to you and you didn't really charge this and you would submit an agreement that did not have those amounts in there. Do you have that agreement? Yeah, I brought the agreement with me. I had not seen it and I just wondered if you had that. Certainly. And you were correct. The law states that the administrative fee shall not be greater than the amounts that you cited.
 Obviously payroll for the local plan members, as you already pointed out, is zero. Right. So any fee that would be attached to that would be zero. This would be the 1% of the system assets.
 But the law fee system has not needed to levy that charge even though it's available in law. And so we just simply don't do that. And what I told Paul was that because there have actually been questions that have come up this year with other pension funds that have consolidated, is we were already planning in the 2016 iterations of these agreements to remove that paragraph. But I said for Fayetteville, I have no problem at all removing the paragraph. So I have completed originals with that paragraph removed. Okay, thank you. Yes, sir. Howard.
 Sorry, my next question was about the actuary's advice when they increased the percentage of payout to 90%.
 Didn't the actuary say that the fund, in their opinion, would remain solvent if they increased it to that percentage? At that time, that's correct, back in 2001. Did they give the same advice every time that the increase was done? Yeah, the first one was in 96 and the answer was yes, so that's the reason why the pension fund was able to proceed. In 2001, the answer was yes.
 And then in 2003, it was a temporary cost of living adjustment, so that was put into play. And then also the extension from drop was moved from five years to 10 years. That actually is a cost saver for the plan because assets stay in the pension plan longer.
 when a person participates in drop for a longer period of time. But yes, in each case, the report or the valuation had to show that the pension fund could support with the current revenue streams that were coming in at that time in investment earnings and the valuations show that the client could enact those increases.
 And my last follow-up question, I guess, would be for a combination. Sondra, you were on the board and you were there to vote for one of those increases. Do you remember what the rationale was for that from the perspective of a board member? Well, the first process was for us to get an actuarial study to see if the board could sustain an increase, which we did. And they came back and told us we could.
 Now, the only two increases that I remember voting for is one raising the volunteers to a minimum of $100 a month, which was very small increase, and the 3% temporary COLA for three years. The one thing that I remember doing was raising the volunteers to a minimum of $100 a month, which was very small increase, and the 3% temporary COLA for three years.
 I was concerned about is the benefit increases were done on a cash flow basis instead of an actuarial soundness basis, and PRB can explain the difference in that, but it was more favorable to do a benefit increase on a cash flow basis.
 David, would you like to explain that? Sondra is correct that there is a cash flow model that's used for plans that have more than 50 participants. And it actually looks at all of the revenue streams that are coming in. Let me give you a very simplified explanation of the cash flow versus the traditional model that Sondra referred to.
 And that the other revenues that would come into the pension fund, whether it's millages, there's been a couple of very small gifts that have been reported on the financial reports that have come into the pension fund over the years. And then the investment earnings, and we can all look backwards and know that investment earnings back at that time were pretty strong.
 The evaluation showed that if the investments continued to produce the results that they have produced, then the plan would be able to afford the increases. We know that shortly thereafter, really the balance of the 2000 decade was a very poor performer when it comes to investments. That's what contributed as well then was the underperformance of the investments. Thank you. Yes, Adele.
 I have a few questions. First one is for our city attorney. Now you have opined that you feel that it is actually illegal for us to take this action and that we would be opening ourselves up for lawsuits. I am concerned that a court could determine that this an action of assuming the debt basically is what you would be doing for the taxpayers of Fayetteville.
 of the pension plans would be an extension of credit of the city to a other governmental entity, the pension plan, which is not controlled by the city, but in fact controlled by the Board of Trustees, and with the pensioners having the majority on that board and control of the board. And in fact, the mayor and clerk have twice at least moved to
 request the board to look at potentially reducing the benefit rates and Each time their motion has been voted down by the pensioners. So it's obviously the pensioners who control that they're a separate entity They were on different sides of the city and suits So they are a separate entity the concern I have is that the court could could decide that maybe this was in fact an extension of credit to another governmental entity which is prohibited by the Arkansas Constitution and
 This is the same provision in the Constitution that was violated in the Incinerator case where we extended credit to the Northwest Arkansas Resource Recovery Authority and which led to massive litigation and attorneys fees exceeding probably $5 million that eventually we got to pay. We got to pay both our own private counsel we hired and then we got to pay the counsel that won. So, it, we paid both sides on that and the trustee counsel.
 And it was a very unpleasant situation, if you can remember it, back in the late 80s and early 90s. And in fact, I think led to the change of government where the board of directors were
 out and the new city council and mayor were elected. So there is, I think, a danger which is too much for me to ignore, and so my advice to you has been that I believe you should not approve this consolidation at this time. There is a constitutional way to be able to shore up these pension funds, and that is by a millage vote by the taxpayers, which is specifically authorized in the Constitution for this purpose.
 for the pension plans. That would be up to the taxpayers of Fayetteville, but certainly I think that there's compelling cases amongst the pensioners, especially some of the more elderly one, about not having, you know, not certainly nobody wants to see their benefits cut. And when it's been suggested in the past, and we looked at it in 2010, that there's
 The benefits would only probably had to be cut to about 70% by 70% then. So they would be at 70% instead of 90. And if you remember, they all started at 50. That's where the benefits started, 50% of ending pay. And they were raised up to 90. And in 2010, after the big crash, Jody Correro came up here and he predicted that it would be likely the pension fund could survive if the benefits were reduced by about 20% down to 70%. 20%.
 But that was not agreed to by the Pension Board, and so I would imagine now it would be even more difficult. So the ways I believe that it's constitutionally can be done is the millage could be raised or the pension benefits could be lowered, and I believe they can be lowered legally, even though the Attorney General disagrees with me, or a combination of both.
 But I do have to recommend that you do not consolidate, do not accept this agreement, because I do think it exposes us to litigation. Thank you. No, I have some questions for Mr. Clark. It's okay. Whenever. Mr. Clark, how many retirees are we talking about that this would affect their monthly paycheck? Under the local plan, there are 51 retirees.
 51 retirees, how many being fisheries? That's inclusive, so that's a total number of retirees. So there is 30, if the one person passed away was a member, which I think it was, that would be 35 retirees.
 And then what we have 16 of the, I'm sorry, there's a disabled individual in here too. So I'm not sure which one that person falls into. But we certainly had 14 survivors at one point. So something like 50. Yes, ma'am. Okay. And the other thing that is very significant, I think, is that we're not talking about the check being cut completely, right?
 We're talking about it being lowered significantly and whatever is left would be divided out among those retirees. Is that correct? With a benefit reduction, yes, ma'am. Benefit reduction. Thank you. Thank you. You know, we have, I've had many emails about this. And one today pointed out to me that he is a retiree living in our city.
 on a flat income as all retirees are. Mm-hmm. And for, I think that we as a council, and he was asking that we as a council remember that there are lots of retirees in Fayetteville on a flat income. Certainly. And should we make the decision to raise the taxes again, we're affecting all of those individuals. So I thought that was a real significant fact. You bet.
 Thank you. Appreciate your being here. Thank you. Justin and then Matthew. Can I ask the city attorney something? Just to go back to what your previous comments were about the legal case that we lost where we paid both, well, we paid fees for private attorneys and everything else. That amount estimated was what? I think there's about 16, oh, the amount of money we paid it, I think it was around $5 million or so. And how did the city pay for that?
 Well, we didn't build a lot of infrastructure for quite a while. We didn't raise the number of employees during that period of time because we were concerned, obviously, that we might lose that lawsuit. So legally we had to pay it out of general fund, basically? Well, I think it was. I think it was general funds that we paid out of. I think that's where it came from. Although...
 Possibly some of it might have come out of a wastewater fund because this was incinerated was for a wastewater issue and they had eventually raised the rate on everybody $2 a month to pay for this and that was another thing that Supreme Court said was unconstitutional because it was not a fee. In fact, it was a tax because we were receiving nothing for it.
 I see. Okay. The short answer is we paid for it. Well, no, I mean, you had to find the money. It was the ratepayers, too, and I can't, when we cut the big checks finally, I don't really remember which fund they came out. I'm just curious how we came up with that much money. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yeah. I still, you know, what I said last time about my thoughts that,
 Consolidation was, at least financially, I didn't think was too risky to do. Our city attorney's comments are giving me quite a bit of pause, so I had one question regarding that. Would it change your opinion at all if the people voted for consolidation? Probably not. I think that they're held to the same constitutional standards that you are.
 But if they voted for the millage, that would certainly be within their power and that could prevail. Yes, of course. My concern is that even with the millage, there's a small fund. It's not going to get the kind of investment returns it needs to actually be healthy.
 which is why I am inclined, absent the constitutional concerns, to consolidate because we're pulling our money to get better investment returns. That's my ongoing concern financially, but I'm very weary anytime our lawyer says this is unconstitutional. Sorry, I just have a couple more questions.
 So what happened to Little Rock in 2013 when they consolidated? Were there any challenges to that? No. There's been no legal challenges. And I mentioned in September that Lafayette administers 164 of the local pension funds. Since that time, we've had two more consolidate, in other words, assign administration, and we expect two additional ones before the end of the month.
 Little Rock's plan was also a private pension plan. It was a closed pension fund. Closed pension fund, yes. I know state law lays out how these plans are divided out after they become completely insolvent for the remainder of the funds.
 I guess that's a question that we don't know about as far as consolidation. You may be also alluding to the provision that Mr. Williams talked about at the September meeting too and that's whenever there's fewer than five members of the pension fund, the state law says that then the city shall step in and assign administration lobby. Clearly this fund is not anywhere close to that population count.
 I was actually referring to the other section that you had. Well, there is another section that talks about the fund actually running out of money. Right. And then have it being divided pro rata until it runs out of money again and wait for the next year for more millage to come in and more turn back funds to come in. That's something hopefully we can avoid. I've been asking the pension board for the last nine years to do something because I could see it and I have memos back there from 2006 saying,
 This fund is not going to survive and we must do something and my suggestion was that you must consider reducing pension benefits even though nobody likes that. And I regret that they were raised too high because people get used to receiving
 their money and it's very hard to give it back, but if the pension fund is going to run out of money, if there's not going to be more millage coming in to support it, then there must be something on the other side, a reduction of benefits, so that the fund does not go bankrupt or else eventually it might go bankrupt.
 That was the basis of my question. I actually approached Senator Collins and Representative Whitaker and Letting this week to see since there have been other consolidations in the state, if the Attorney General has already written opinions on this. They've reached out for an AG opinion to see if one exists already, hopefully. You never know when those come back. Yes, Joe.
 Mr. Clark, could you give me an idea of the range of benefits on a monthly basis that this fund is paying out? What's the biggest benefit we pay out? What's the smallest benefit we pay out? I presume since Ms. Smith said they raised the minimum of volunteers to $100 per month, that's probably the minimum. Yes. What's the maximum benefit being paid out right now? You don't have to tell me who received
 What is that amount? Yeah, actually, I can give you an average. All I have is raw dollars here by groups of members. Of the 51 people that we talked about a moment ago, I can give you of the, there's like 1.143 million that's paid out to 36 individuals. This was as December 31, 2014. Let me do that real quick.
 That averages out to an annualized amount of $31,764. Now, that's average. Those are going to be people that are making lower, people making higher, obviously. You gave me the mean. I was trying to figure out what the standard deviation was statistically. Mr. Latour, if you look at, I sent you a memo on October the 1st, 2015, and on there I attached a letter I had sent to Representative Whitaker when we were seeking to,
 have the right given to the pension board members if they wanted to to reduce their benefits if they felt like you really needed to do and My last part of my last sentence. I say the top ten monthly pension benefits go from Pete Reagan's 42,428 annually to Marion Dawson's $73,302 annually and I think that probably there's additional money that comes in beyond just a monthly benefit and
 So those are the top, but of course it's not very evenly distributed among here. There are, I also pointed out in that letter about the fact that we have three regular not volunteer people that receive less than $1,000 a month. So those would be the lowest paid.
 What I figured out when I looked at the average monthly payment, I came down to a lower figure. I thought it was $29,000. Maybe your figures are better than mine. I don't know. Anybody else? I was just trying to get a handle on what's the maximum, what's the minimum. We know the average now. Thank you. Yes, sir. Any other questions? Okay. Thank you. Mr. Clark, I'm sure there'll be some more questions for you before. I'll be here. Okay. Let's take some public comment. Now, here's the rules for everybody.
 Just one turn at the microphone unless the council brings you back up to ask you questions. Give us your name and address. Comments to be addressed to me, not a member of the council or anybody in the public or to the council as a whole. So don't engage council member or anybody in the public. And I will determine whether we're...
 on topic, off topic, whatever. I think this will be pretty straightforward here. So we will start. Pete, would you like to start? Thank you, Mayor and Council. My name is Pete Reagan. I live at 2086 South Malley-Wagnon Road in Fayetteville. Thank you for your time and for allowing me to address you on this very important issue.
 I have compiled some notes and comparisons of both LOPFI and our old fire pension system to share with you all tonight. Currently, failable firefighters can retire after 30 years of service at a salary of 98.1% of their salary with a 3% compounded COLA. Old fire pensioners retired at 90% of salary with no COLA. I do want to point out one individual that I've
 I do know I did not have the opportunity to work with retired in the late 60s maybe the early 70s retired at 330 a month currently the city of Fayetteville is paying 24.5 percent of payroll on each firefighter towards their lot fee retirement this amount is subject to change depending on several factors including investment income employee turnover medical retirements etc this equation
 It's figured into an actuary study performed each year on the Lopfe Pension so that the Lopfe Pension will never be in the shape that the old fire pension plan is in now. The most that the City of Fayetteville ever paid into the old pension system for the firefighters was 12 percent. And I'm not sure of the date, but I think it was late 80s, early 90s when Fred Vorsinger was mayor. I apologize for not having that date.
 The old retired firefighters received a smaller retirement plan than current firefighters. Our retirement dollars continue to shrink because of inflation with no cost of living correction. In contrast, Social Security retirement and the current firefighter plan both have a cost of living correction. To make things worse, we are now faced with financial insecurities that no one should face. It would be morally wrong
 for the city of Fayetteville to walk away from past promises to secure and sound retirement plans. We did the same job as the current firefighters, worked the same 56-hour work week, including holidays and weekends, served the public, and put our lives on the line without the benefit of safety equipment available to modern firefighters of today. I cannot see why we should be treated differently.
 The question has arisen many times, why is the old pension board not reduced benefits to prolong the existence of the pension plan? The answer is simple. It would be illegal to do so. The Attorney General of the state of Arkansas, the highest ranking law official in the state, has given his opinion that it would be illegal to reduce a pensioner's benefit. Mr. Williams, our city attorney, has given an opinion to this on the contrary.
 However, he can point to absolutely no Arkansas appeals court or Supreme Court opinion that supports his opinion. As Mr. Williams knows, his opinion is merely an opinion unsupported by an Arkansas appellate court. As Mr. Williams further knows, an Arkansas Attorney General's opinion is given greater deference by our appeals court than the opinion of any attorney, including a city attorney. We, the old Pension Board members,
 have paid for a special actuarial evaluation, and I believe they have presented you a good plan that at some point in the future, eight to ten years down the road, might cost the city some additional monies. But at some point, your money will be returned, as we will all pass away. On behalf of the retired firefighters,
 We urge you to protect our retirement system no matter what the disaster. We never hesitated to put our lives on the line. We were always there for all of Fayetteville. We will always be there for you. We are asking our council to be there for us. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Reagan? Thank you, Pete. Who else would like to address us? Mayor Jordan, ladies and gentlemen of the city council.
 My name is Buddy Ledford. I reside at 4545 East Huntsville Road in Fedville. I am a resident of Fedville for over 50 years. In addition to that, I served 18 years on the Fedville Civil Service Commission. I think my last term expired in 2006. I'm currently in my second term on the Pension Review Board. I don't want to rehash what Mr. Reagan has stated, so I'm going to abbreviate my remarks.
 somewhat because he's covered much of what I wanted to say. We've heard a lot said about reduction of benefits. I would like to go into that somewhat in that in 2001 this last benefit increase was voted in. Most people like myself accept the standard of living based on your past years or months. You have so much income, you have so much discretionary expense.
 What happens when you reduce that income by 35 to 50 percent? Of the 51 remaining pensioners out there, in my opinion, you're going to create at least 35 bankruptcies. No way around it. The other issue had to do with referring this issue to the voters on a millage increase. That, as I see it, is kicking the can down the road.
 We just recently approved a one mil increase. If you come back to the voter this soon with another on the same thing, chances are it's not going to pass. I urge you to consolidate with LOPFI now. You ask the question, well, how would we fund it? The City of Fayetteville is a pretty good-sized government. They have projects coming on, projects going off every day.
 Why can't we target certain projects that are going to be terminating within the next 10 years when the city of Fayetteville shouldn't have to pay anything on this, earmark those to be used if and when it's needed? Little Rock, Hot Springs, Fort Smith have all chosen to find a way to work around this very complex issue. I think Fayetteville can do the same. First, you have to want to. Second, you have to find a way to fund it.
 I think this finding funding from projects over the next 10 years is a way to do that. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mr. Mayor, Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. You all know I don't always agree with Mr. Williams, but I think his memorandum from September 29th and his memorandum from October 1st were great.
 clear thinking well-written memoranda with excellent advice i think this would be an unconstitutional exaction if you actually become the agent and adopt all these liabilities and
 The statute, the state has clearly spoken, the statute provides its remedy here, which is that these people need to prorate among themselves or just burn out and then get new funding, whatever that may be, and deal with it among themselves. I've been trying to wrap my head around a 90% pension, and I guess I just heard there's a 98% pension at 30 years for current hirees? That's the new plan.
 I just want to put this in perspective. I'm going to be 65 in May. I got a 401k that I saved for myself, and I'm the one who's going to be asked to pay these taxes. I have an uncle who was a fireman in New York and drove a pumper, and a cousin who is a battalion chief in New York. So I'm not unsympathetic towards firemen, particularly New York City firemen.
 But as Mr. Becker points out in his memo, there are a lot of actuarial assumptions to this. I've read all these materials. There's a lot of disclaimers that, well, I can't really say this because I'm having to rely on information provided by LOPFI.
 Mr. Petty said well if it goes to Lopfee it gets 8% That's an assumption of an 8% return versus an assumption of a 4.4% return based on the experience Under the under the the current pension fund that's not a guarantee of an 8% return It may take some of the pressure off the city in terms of its credit rating and its ability to run up even more debt but it doesn't necessarily pay the bill and
 These assumptions are based on 1983 actuarial data. I just looked it up this afternoon. The average lifespan in America since 1983 has gone up five years as of 2012. That's based on CDC data. So that's not even accurate data on which to base these projections. And I could go on and on and on. I know that you don't want me to go on and on and on going through this point by point. But consider this.
 I'm military. A Navy SEAL has to maintain himself in Olympic athletic condition for his entire career, so long as he serves. And at 20 years, he gets 50% of three years, highest three years base pay. He doesn't work a day on and get two days off at home and then get 90%. I mean, in theory, that could start at age 38 and run through age 85. And think about 90%.
 It costs money to go to work. When Ms. Marsh goes to work, when Mr. Long goes to work, I don't know if maybe you walk Ms. Marsh, but those automobile expenses are not deductible. You might have child care expenses. You might have to pay someone to cut your lawn. It costs money to go to work.
 If you can retire and do nothing for 40 years and get 90% of what you used to earn, and what does final pay mean? This is predicated on final pay. Is this base pay? At some points it says base pay, but this ordinance is written so deviously, really, when you read it. It says final pay. Well, if you talk about final pay for Port Authority police in New York,
 I've got a report for you on that. They're earning $300,000 a year by working 56 hours of overtime a week just to increase their final pay and retire based on that. There are a lot of issues with this. Mr. Williams cautioned that in the incinerator case, I think it was, it was a last minute decision on December 31st. It was a rushed decision. There wasn't a lot of thought given to it and it had huge consequences.
 And I would just ask whatever you do, I would hope all eight of you, plus thank you Mr. Mayor and Ms. Smith, apparently you voted against these increases that they voted for themselves in-house. But I would ask you not to lock the citizens of this city into a terrible debt that people who aren't even alive now are going to have to pay.
 And to think about this thing, have a markup where I can take more time and we can go through this. But Mr. Williams has really done a tremendous service to this city with those memoranda. And I would ask all of you to follow his advice. Thank you, Pete. Who else would like to address us on this? Mr. Mayor, thank you. My name is Lorraine O'Neill. I live at 3001 West Weddington, apartment 82 in Fayetteville here. And I understand the dilemma.
 And we'd all like to have guarantees in life, but there's no such thing. I have had to face numerous times reductions that I was unprepared for, but I faced it. You do what you have to do. And it's unpleasant, but you go on.
 And the average that these folks are going to be retiring on is triple what I am dealing with myself right now. And I think it's very inappropriate to allow them to continue at this rate. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address his own question?
 Mr. Mayor and members of the council, I'm sorry I have to be here tonight for this situation but I feel very strongly my husband Darryl Judy was a federal firefighter for 20 years. He gave everything to it. I rarely had a night that we didn't have an alarm go off and him get up and leave and I many times had to do things that I shouldn't a wife shouldn't have to do with repairing cars or whatever
 because he wasn't there. And if we wanted to go to visit our mother, my mother out in Elkins or Durham, we had to get permission from the fire chief before we could leave town, that sort of thing. My husband worked the last five and a half, five to eight years very disabled from trying to lift a body out of a vehicle out on the bypass. And he went ahead and worked those last years. And he retired.
 and he received $800 a month, $853 a month for the whole time. In 2000, my husband was 54 years old and died of a massive heart attack, very unexpectedly. Two years later, my brother, who was a retired federal firefighter, died at 53 with a heart attack. In the five years after my husband died,
 We lost 13 firefighters under the age of, you know, they were like 49, one of them was 49, and the rest of them were in their 50s and early 60s. We lost 13 people. Our firefighters don't live a long age. A lot of them are in their, we're not going to be here very long, even the widows. And for the widow's benefits or the spousal benefits, that's state law. That's part of the state statute that created it.
 the fire and pension fund. That's not something that this fire department board created. Our spousal benefits were part of the state statute. I depend on this. My husband had no Social Security because I was a servant and was in the state legislature for six years. My Social Security is very minimal because it's based on $13,000 a year I earned as a state representative.
 We're hearing that these people are making lots of money. There are very few people, about five people at the top, that retired with 40-something years of service to the Fayetteville or lots of service that are drawing a large amount. Most of us are drawing very low, less than $20,000 a year total. So...
 I just wanted to ask that you really consider this and that we're not out there taking advantage, trying to take advantage of the city and increasing our benefits because most of the people are drawing very small checks. There's just a very few at the top that draw the higher amount. So this is something that's very serious, and I ask that you figure out a way to support the pension fund at its present rate because 
 If you do a percentage and you cut us back to 50%, I'm going to be drawing $800 again, which I cannot support my family with. So just appreciate your really taking this seriously and finding a way to fix it. Thank you. Thank you, Jan. Who else would like to address us on this? Hello, I'm Gail Jenkins. I live at 1238 North Center in Elkins. I would just like to say that
 I'm not sure about what this is all about except for that we're in debt, we're not able to pay what the firefighters were promised at the time. These firefighters, I'm married to a firefighter, an ex-firefighter. As someone said earlier, they do nothing. Most of the time they can't. My husband had a church fall on him and has a...
 a neck problem, they have back problems, they have mental distress, they've pulled bodies out of cars, they gave their lives, they have high divorce rates because their wives can't and their family can't take it. They watch their children cry every day when they didn't get to go to their ball games, their birthdays, their wives' anniversaries. They gave their life to the city of Fayetteville. And I just would hope that you guys would take that into
 to consideration because it's not that they didn't work the average job where they worked nine to five, had weekends off and got to have family time or go to a similar city. They had to work all the time, every day, every night.
 dead babies, dead people every day. Back in the day that they worked, they didn't have all of the equipment they have now. My husband can't hear hardly because of his hearing, but never once did he draw one day of disability. He didn't because they have that code. They had, firefighters are a different, I think a different kind of person. They aren't like, we pay people on welfare,
 Higher than some of our firefighters are making for their you know, free child care free health benefits free everything for people who don't work But yet there's an issue with paying our pensioners and I think you need to keep that into consideration as well Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, i'm gonna bring it back to the council. All right What discussion do we have among the council? Anybody
 I think that we need to leave it on the second and not move to the third because there has to be some more information that I need to get that I'm working on and Alan's got some more information. Okay. Here is where we get in a little bit of a bind here because the decision has to be made if we're going to consolidate or whatever we're going to do by the 31st of October. Now that does not mean I can't call a special city council meeting between now and the 31st of October.
 So, I'm just saying, I mean, it's on the second reading, but if we don't make a decision, I would have to call a special city council meeting. Is that about right, Kat?
 Yes, a decision probably needs to be made before the end of October. Obviously this window is open every year, but this fund is continuing to lose money and lose ground. So I imagine the next report we might get would be based upon the funds balanced at the end of this year, which is going to be somewhat lower, probably substantially lower than what it was in 2014, and therefore the report will be that much lower.
 more difficult. But Mark, I don't mind calling the special city council meeting if I have to. I mean... Well, it was my... I guess my understanding was it is annual and I hate to push it off annually because of the amount of loss in the fund.
 It's not an easy decision and I need more information, I think, from a broad range of sources before I feel like I can make a decision personally. I totally understand. Really, I do. Matthew? Well, I think some things are worth a special session if that's what it takes. I'm personally very interested to see if we can get an AG opinion based on the constitutionality question in that timeframe.
 I would hope that if we had a special meeting we could have it on the 30th, the day before, to give the AG enough time to come back with an opinion. Because hopefully, usually they take anywhere from two weeks to a month, and it's been a
 And what is the reason for needing to make the decision on October 31st? By October 31st, it couldn't be by November 3rd? No, I think it's got to be by October 31st. Yeah.
 Mayor and City Council, the due date of the end of October is so that we can use these evaluation results, because they're actually based on 2014 information, and be able to complete the rest of the paperwork and transfer the assets to LOPI and start benefit payments on January 1. If this valuation expires, then what you do is you start the process anew on or after April 1 of next year.
 So would those two business days set you back? Basically you wouldn't be able to work with those two extra business days from October 30th, which is a Friday, to the Tuesday of November 3rd? No. No, we have the due date for a reason and that's so that we make sure that we treat each plan exactly the same. We give everybody the same due date. This report was pushed out I believe in June of this year, so it's not as though this is a last minute report. Yeah, June 11th is when this report was produced.
 Yes, Sarah. I guess one of the things that's really difficult for me is the disparity between the different benefits amounts. And I know that they're based on a percentage of final pay and 
 Maybe I just don't understand this right, because I'm not of a generation that has things like retirement benefits. But I'm seeing these people that are making $767 a month versus this Marion Doss who's making over $6,000 a month in pension benefits.
 And is there any way within the pension system to kind of equalize these so that if we do require a cut in benefits somehow that we're not cutting from these people who are subsisting on the very low amounts? I mean, how can this be levelized?
 Well, the first thing to talk about reducing benefits in any way, shape or form would require a legislative action. Right. And that too would probably run afoul of the constitutional test as far as the impairment of contracts. That's not even a debate for tonight.
 uh... but with that we have to have a legal mechanism or bill to adjust benefit levels at all but now that the variation and the benefit levels that that you mentioned it has to do with the person's pay so one person it's not necessarily good earn the same as the maybe the next person and uh... then you also have there's different benefits are added such as what's called an eight sixty bonus if an individual work more than twenty five years
 and reached age 60, then there's an additional benefits added to their base benefit when they hit age 60, and then that's payable to them, whereas the neighboring person may have left employment after 20 years of service, and so they would not be entitled to that benefit. That also is a product of state law. So that's part of the reason you have the differences in pay, you have the differences in length of service that drive the ancillary benefits such as the age 60 bonus. Thank you.
 I'm sorry. It was no. Anybody else? Okay. Thank you. David? And what, how do you all have that look? What are you thinking? You want to hold it and we call a special meeting or? Yes. What? I think we all feel it's important enough that we would make time in our schedules to come to a special meeting and be glad to do that. But it's, in my opinion, it's looking like we're going to court.
 You know, if we assume the liability, the taxpayers still flip the bill. If we go directly to the taxpayers and say, give us a millage increase to help make the fund solvent, they're flipping the bill. It looks like the taxpayers are going to pay for this one way or the other. You know, from the taxpayers' perspective, our best course of action is let it go to a court of law, and we might win. And if we win, it doesn't cost taxpayers anything. And the firefighters are left with the constitutional provisions of proration.
 If we lose, well, we'll be out some legal fees, but we're going to pay the same amount we'd have paid in the beginning. You know, it's almost, it's a difficult situation. I mean, we appreciate the firefighters, I mean, and the policemen and everyone who serves us. And we basically agree with everything everybody said, that yes, you did provide service, and we're pleased with that service. And we don't want to just leave you hanging out to dry, but this is the dilemma we're in. This is the pressure we feel. You know, do we assume this big debt for the taxpayers?
 Not everybody on this council feels this way, but I view my position on this council as a sacred duty to guard the public purse. And we're going to be voting on some things later tonight where we're going to spend millions of dollars renovating an office building. It seems like maybe our firefighters are worth more than the office building. Maybe people could put up with some crowded conditions to help the firefighters out. Maybe that would be a good tradeoff. You know, maybe we could be creative to avoid the lawsuit.
 but I don't know that we're willing to make those political choices. And there may be some legalities there. I'm amazed that the state legislature would make it illegal to lower benefits. I wonder how they feel about the law of gravity. Would they like to legislate on that? I mean, at some point, the dollars just don't equal each other. I mean, why would the legislature take a position there? I mean, you can't legislate economic prosperity, even though we think we can so many times.
 So that's the amazing part of this. So we're left with very few options because the state legislature has shut off some of our options. That's kind of the way I see it. I mean, it's a difficult decision. Yes, it is. Okay. So we want to hold it on the second reading. And then the special city council meeting is to discuss this topic and set it for October the 30th. What day of the week is that? I don't know. Friday. Friday. That's the only day I'm available to see it.
 That's the next day I'm available. Is it a year available on Friday? Peter, unless they bring you back up. But I'll let you come up. I'll make that decision tonight. But hang on just a second. Can I say something? I'm really just talking to Alan, if that's alright. And I'm hoping to have the AG opinion. And that was my thing, because I'm supposed to be out of the country, but I can possibly be back that morning. So I could possibly make something.
 Depending on international flights, which are always fun, but I would love to have that opinion I don't know if anybody can help with that or Because that would be huge for me is to get that opinion I just Can I say something real quick? Yeah, this is this is about as bad a position actually, this is the worst I felt about a position and
 since I've been here, and we've had some doozies over the last couple of years. Yes. And this one is by far the worst because I'm having to look at a retiree's or a widower's in their eyes and telling them that I don't want to do something because I know this is not a good business decision. It's not. And I run a hundred plus million dollar business, and this is a bad business decision to send this to Lockheed. It just is.
 Hope is not a strategy. And it looks like a pension group based the future on we hope it works out, and now it's not, and they're looking at us to say, now you guys get to fix it. And we have to base everything we're doing on hope that this thing just will work out okay. That's a horrible position for us to be in, and it's a horrible position to put us in. But that's why we're paid all these heavy, heavy dollars to be up here. And because we do care. Every one of us cares.
 deeply about this city, but this is difficult. So I'll try to make a special meeting. It's worth that. This is a bad spot to be in. Yes, it is. Yes, Peter, what question would you like to ask? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just forgot to. How does this, if, as Mr. Becker says, they've known since 2009 that the fund is insolvent,
 How, and if this gentleman from Lafayette said, basically what expires in October, as I understand it, the end of October is a bunch of assumptions which would have to be reworked, but there's not an asteroid that's gonna hit or anything else. How is this an emergency such that once again
 The council is talking about third readings or expedited action. That was my question. Well, I can probably answer some of that question, Peter, because that was brought to the board and the board voted to bring it here by a four to two vote. We talked about that. We got it in in June. Paul tried to work out trying to get everybody together and everybody couldn't make it or couldn't do this, couldn't do this. So we set it up for September, end of September. We've had our meetings. This is like the...
 2nd 3rd meeting on the issue. No man not going to take any more public comment. And it came to us and then it went to the board board brought to resolution. We had special City Council meeting board made the next morning the board took it in, made the resolution that you're looking voted 42. Is that correct Sandra? And that's how I got where it is now. It can be
 be put off until april but we got to do a new study to do that and the board did not really feel like they wanted to wait till april again because every day it's losing money i would say that that would be a fair assumption and so that's kind of where we are nobody's trying to rush anything through peter it's just that we don't make this decision by the end of october where they consolidate don't take any action to it put it to a vote of the people
 We either make it by October or we wait until next April. Now, my retirement's not hooked up with what their retirement is, so they wanted to get it here before the end of October. You also will be dealing, I'm sure, with the police pension board before this is over. Ellen, am I missing anything there? More than likely. More than likely. So it's two things. Now, let me just tell you this, Council. If you take no action,
 This fund's going to be done in about six years. Is that about right, David? Give me something here. Seven years, six years? Eight to ten. Okay. And the policeman fund will last how long? Don't know. They're in much better shape. I know they are, Kit. I just like an idea. Okay. So if you don't do anything, this fund's eight to ten years. It's gone. Just a minute, John. Let me finish. Okay.
 Now, we can send it to Lofty, and when you send it to Lofty, you lose control of the fund. They will decide what you're going to pay. You can send it to a vote of the people, and if they vote in a mill, that will be split two different ways, and it will be a .9 for each one. And my finance director here, he would probably say that that would probably be enough. But those are your options here.
 Yes, John, what did you want to say? Well, I don't think it'll be done in 8 to 10 years because they're getting the millage rate. They have income each year, so it would go to the constitutional provisions where there's pro-rate. Yeah, well, they're going to get the .4 no matter what. We know that. And we're speculating here how long it's going to last. The last
 The account we had was in 2010, and I think Mr. Carrero stated it would last about 10 years, if I remember that correctly. Anybody remember that? I think that's correct. Right, Senator? Of course, they run a lot of scenarios, but it's all dependent upon earnings in the future. And fortunately, from 2010 to 2014, there was a pretty good rise in the stock market. Right. And so that prolonged a number of years.
 There's just a question about, you know, is that going to be a constant rise in the stock market or not? And that's somewhat questionable. Right. And so at that point in time, they said if we were to reduce the fund by 20 percent, they thought it could remain solvent. We might be able to save the fund. So Sandra made a motion the next meeting that we had. I seconded. We voted. It was a two to four vote, not two.
 So, and I don't, we might have done that another time. I can't remember. But anyway, it ended up at the legislator, and the legislator voted that we couldn't do that. Attorney General said we couldn't do that. The city attorney said we could. But this is one thing that is a fact. This fund is insolvent, and it is going down. And we're going to have to make some hard decisions here. Now, this is not easy. It's not been easy for Sondra and I on that board.
 And I'm sure it's not easy for the board, other board members, because they're trying to protect the people that draw their pension. And I understand that as well. So somewhere in the mix of all this, as my daddy would say, gom, we've got to figure out a pathway. And nobody likes being here. This has been one of the most difficult.
 difficult decisions and it was thrust upon me day one when I came into this office. And I had a meeting the first day I was in this office and said, we got to address these pension funds because they're going down and it's not got any better. So that's kind of your options. You can do nothing, send it to Lofty,
 or to have voted the people, I don't see much other way around it. Mayor? Yes, ma'am. What could I ask? Go ahead. I'm sorry. What are we waiting for the Attorney General to tell us? What are we waiting for, Alan or Kit? Yes.
 My request was to review Kit's opinion and see if that was the Attorney General's opinion and also to see if another opinion has already been written taking into account other consolidations that's happened in the State of Arkansas. Thank you. On the one hand, we have an obligation to the retired pensioners and we also have an obligation to the taxpayers. This is not easy, not an easy decision.
 Okay, so we'll leave it right here and we'll set up a special meeting for October the 30th, correct? What time on October the 30th, ma'am? Well, I was going to pass out Halloween candy, but I guess we will. Halloween's the next day. It's at 5, but I guess I can postpone that. I mean, I guess I'm going to postpone it. Actually, handing out it starts at 3, Mayor. Does it? Yes.
 Well, I can do that. That's where our office is. So let's set it up for 530, and I can pass out Halloween candy. Until then. Until then. Okay. Everybody good? All right, we'll leave it on second reading. All right. Okay. We're on to new business. Okay. Okay. All right, then. Moving on to new business.
 Number one a resolution authorized the acceptance of a USDA farmers market promotion program grant with the USDA agricultural marketing service in the amount of 58,000 856 dollars for the city to expand and promote economic opportunities for producers operating through the federal farmers market to approve an agreement with the rural mountain producers exchange and to approve a budget adjustment and
 Mayor, Council, good evening. In May, the city partnered with the Fayetteville Farmers Market to apply to the USDA for a $59,000 grant to do farmers market promotions in three areas, to do television and other ads with emphasis on promoting their weekend markets, promotion of special events, predominantly supplies for events such as Salsa Fest, National Farmers Market Week, and cooking demonstrations.
 and then to help merchants with merchandising displays and social media marketing training for their vendors so that they could self-promote. We were, we received word last month from the USDA that we did, that we were selected to receive this grant.
 The grant would be administered through the Sustainability Department with assistance from the city's accounting division, and there is no match for the city as a part of this grant. Is there any questions? Any questions? Sure. Peter, how do I become a vendor at the farmers market? I am not intimately familiar with that process, Mr. Latour, but I would invite Leanne Halsey up here, who's the business manager from the market, to help address that question for you.
 Is she present? Yes. Great. Teresa, do you want to? Sure. Teresa. The vendor coordinator, Teresa Maurer, will answer that for you.
 Yes, we have an application process that's open for four months a year from December to March. And during that process people can apply, farmers and artists and bakers and so on. Our board of directors makes a determination after a farm visit or kitchen visit or whatever about admitting you to the market.
 And then at that point, you are able to sell at one of the Fayetteville farmers markets. I forgot to introduce myself. I'm Teresa Maurer, vendor coordinator from the Fayetteville farmers market. Teresa, I was visiting with a constituent this afternoon. She applied to become a vendor at the farmers market, and she was told she had to prove that she'd been
 doing business for 12 months for a full year in some of the market. Is that one of your requirements? It is no longer one of our requirements. That's changed. It has changed. And who sits on that board that decides when someone has met the requirements? Our board is made up of nine members of the farmers market. They're elected by the membership of the market. So they elect themselves?
 Yes, our board is elected by the members. So there's no oversight by the city council or anything like that? We have an operational agreement with the city about how we operate the market on city property. Correct. Thank you. Thank you. Anything else? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Move we pass the resolution. Second.
 motion to second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have on the cap? Yes. Mr. Mayor, this is this is the reason we have 18 trillion dollars in federal debt because we're getting money from federal government for our local projects. I'd much rather see the farmers and the craftspeople in that crafts fair that we call farmers market
 fund this themselves instead of relying on federal dollars. I can't support it. I think it's antithetical to the future of our country, to our grandchildren. I realize that's a national issue that we're bringing up to a local, but it starts here. Okay. Anybody else?
 Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenner. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutere. No. Okay. Number two.
 A resolution to express the City Council's thanks and gratitude to the Walton Family Foundation for its generous $390,000 matching grant for the construction of Clapper Creek Trail to approve a grant agreement and to approve a budget adjustment to recognize this $390,000 grant. Yes, ma'am. Yeah. Thanks, Mayor, Council.
 Really excited about the additional funding for the Clabber Creek Trail. This is an extension from Ruppel Road to Holcomb Elementary School. I'll be requested part of trail and having some assistance. Alan, I know you've been working hard on that piece. We're actually kind of getting started out there. So we're excited to have the funding help. It also will include a boardwalk, which would be a nice feature. It would be a nice addition. Just recognizing the revenue. Any questions from Matt on this?
 I just would like to say thank you, Matt, for working on this so hard. I know when I was the chair of the Active Transportation Board, we talked about this trail quite a bit. And being able to use Woolsey credits was a big discussion. That was a big benchmark or a big hurdle to jump over and the boardwalk and the wetlands. And I appreciate you staying on top of this and working through that along with the rest
 Nice trail. Yes, it will be a good trip. Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? And bring back council if we pass the resolution motion a second to pass a resolution. Okay
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Poplar. Yes. Loutre. Yes. Okay, number three. A resolution of Ward bid number 15-42 to authorize a contract with JLA Enterprises Incorporated in the amount of $425,521.90 for the construction of a restroom and parking lot improvements
 at Gordon Long Park to approve a 5% project contingency in the amount of $21,276.10 and to approve a budget adjustment. Matt. Thank you, Mayor. This is another highly requested project from the citizens and this would be a restroom facility and expanded parking in the Gordon Long Park
 along the Skull Creek Trail or the Razorback Regional Greenway. Really good location for a restroom because it's about equal distance between Wilson Park, which already has restrooms, and Lake Fayetteville. It's a great spot. We did receive grant funding, $260,000 for this project, and received two bids, and going with the lower bidder, JLA Enterprises, asking for an award. Okay. Well, questions we have from Matt on this? Anything?
 No. I thought you had a question. Okay. Is there any public comment on this? So you now bring it back to the council. Motion to pass the resolution. Second. Second. Move motion and second to pass the resolution. Comment, Mayor. Yes, sure. This is just one of those projects. I mean, I realize the need for it, and it's halfway between Wilson Park and Lake Fayetteville, and it'd be a great addition.
 But here's where we have to ask ourselves the question, is it more important than the fireman retirees? Could we not fund this into that? And I realize that some people in this council will roll their eyes and say, he's going to say this every time we spend money. And these are the things that go into my mind. If I view myself as the guardian of the public purse, I have to ask these questions. Are we prioritizing our spending or are we doing all these good things?
 The fireman's fund is a tough question, I agree, and it's not a liberal conservative issue. It's just dollars and cents. It's mathematical. It's pretty easily solved. Either you have it or you don't. But this spending that we're doing here and other items on our agenda tonight, we could get by maybe without this for another two or three years. Granted, it won't be as convenient. It won't be as nice. I agree. But that might be a way that we could fund some pensions that we don't want to say no to.
 So we need to think about these things. I'm sure this will pass and we'll spend the money, so don't worry about it. You're good. But these are the things that go through my mind, and I think they should go through all of our minds. This is where the rubber meets the road. So think about that.
 I was just going to point out that we could wait on this, but it would cost anywhere between $150,000 and $200,000 more because this is using TAP funding for part of the project. Just a piece of information for the public to know. Okay. Thank you. I basically want to say the same thing.
 We get this comment a lot up here on the council. It seems like that money that we're going to spend for one thing should be spent on something else. But, you know, nine out of ten times, the proposal reflects funding sources that are restricted. So on this particular one, $260,000 from a transportation-specific program.
 grant from the Illinois River Watershed Partnership that has to be used for this. That's the second source. And the third source is donations from the organizers of the Hawkeye Marathon. It's all right here in the staff memo. So we couldn't take this money and put it to something else if we wanted to. Okay, anybody else? Okay, we do have a motion and a second, don't we? All right. Sondra, would you please call the vote? Yes.
 And right yet Marsh yes Kenyon yes, Eddie yes, yeah, yes, look here yes. Okay, number for a resolution to prove the contract with benchmark construction of NWA corporate in the amount of 3 million 373,506 dollars and 91 cents for the construction of recycling and trash collection facility expansion
 to approve project contingency in the amount of $150,000, to approve change order number one to reflect value engineering items and reduce the contract amount by $298,732 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Thank you, Mayor. If you'll indulge me for a minute with this item, it's one of three on this particular project. I wanted to go through the project a little bit, talk about the reasons for the project, what will be done out there on the recycling trash collection facility, and just go through a little bit of the details of the project.
 This is a picture of the existing facility. It was constructed in 1995. The population of the city is about 50,000 in 1995.
 Now we're, of course, approaching 80,000. Recycling and Trash Collection staff were at 38 in 1995, now 56 staff members, with future planning looking at going to a staff of 70. The existing facility has four offices plus a reception area and a conference room that's actually being used as an office. There's no meeting space available other than the break room.
 and there is one office that's being shared by the office manager and by the commercial sales representative. And then there are three crew leaders that are actually in the break room.
 The break room here, the crew leaders are kind of lined up along this wall. Each of those crew leaders have about 10 employees that work for them on their crew. And so at times there are as many as 30 people trying to conduct business, work with their supervisor, communicate on a daily basis. So it's very difficult in that particular space.
 The break room is not adequate to house all of the current employees. Locker room areas are smaller than necessary. And then a big item is the distance from the transfer station floor. This is a transfer station out here where the trash comes in to be dumped into the to the to be transferred dumped into the larger trucks. This is the door and
 that comes out of the transfer station, and this is the front of the office. So just a few steps away from the transfer station floor to the very front of the office. So odor control and odors are a big issue in this particular facility. That's something we'll talk about as we look at the proposed plan. This is the proposed plan. This is the existing office area, and then this is the new offices that are proposed.
 12 offices plus a reception area, so 13 total workspaces are proposed. The operations staff, the crew leaders, the operations manager, the lockers for the drivers, all of that is in the existing office space. So drivers can come in this way, come down and meet with their crew leaders.
 The transfer station floor again is here. So this is all separated. And again, that's an odor control issue, keeping sort of the dirty area, if you will, away from the administrative offices, which are over here. There are two unassigned offices as part of this plan for future growth. So there is some future growth being built into the plan. The information center, there's an information center at the front.
 In this area, a larger center so that the different containers can be placed in there, so folks who are coming in and making a decision about which container size they want to use, they'll be able to access that area. The break room is a larger space. It's designed for 70 employees having adequate space to get all of the employees for future planning.
 And again, the key really is the separation of the operations, the transfer floor, and then the administrative offices for that odor control and comfort in the office space. I want to talk about the site a little bit. This is the existing site. This is the existing office and transfer station. Currently, the trash trucks come in here, dump into the trash,
 transportation floor, and then are pushed into trucks which actually come around, route through this area, and can come back out. Of course existing parking spaces for the public and office staff, and this is the driver parking spaces out here.
 This is the master site plan that we came up with. Of course, the new office building here, new parking areas, and not part of this contract but part of a future phase is a new entrance off of Armstrong that would allow the trucks to come in from this direction, be routed around here,
 and have a new scale facility right here to avoid this congested area here, which can be difficult for the public. If they're coming into the offices with all this commercial traffic coming through, it creates some congestion and difficulty for the public. So again, a tighter picture of the existing facilities, and we'll start putting on some of the existing items.
 There's the current truck route for the large trucks that come through the transfer station and back out and we'll talk about that in a minute. So then we go through our proposed improvements starting with site improvements, new parking lot in this area, new truck drives, new parking lot for the office space. The new office is here and is taking up the existing parking lot.
 These are water quality features and LID features that are part of our lead program but also are required for stormwater maintenance and water quality as part of the large-scale development. And as I noted that the current truck drive is this way. The proposed truck routing will be bringing the trucks around this way and back out. This truck drive is being taken up with the proposed parking lot.
 Total cost of these site improvements is 1.1 million dollars. So that's included in the construction contract that's in front of you. New and renovated offices, total cost of that building is 2.195 million dollars. That is about 266 dollars a square foot. Total bid was 3.373 million dollars.
 We did do some value engineering to reduce some of the items, take some of the items out from the contract, and steady perform some of the items as well. A total of about $300,000, $298,000 in value engineering. So the net construction is $3,074,774.91. I want to talk a little bit about
 the things that we're doing for energy and efficiency water use and comfort for the employees this is a proposed to be a LEED certified building to reach silver status that's what it's being designed for and that's the proposal we are on track to do that during construction there are a lot of things that have to happen during construction but we are on track for that so looking at the energy um
 the HVA system and the building automation system, which is basically a computerized system that turns the...
 The system's on and off in accordance with the recycling trash collections scheduling, which starts about 4 in the morning and goes until 5 in the afternoon. But the savings from all of the energy efficiency items that are included is about 22.5% based on the modeling of the design, and then about 20% cost savings over a baseline building.
 Water is savings about 55% over the baseline. It includes both within the facility and also native vegetation and drip irrigation to reduce the amount of landscape irrigation needed.
 Work environment and productivity, these are just kind of a listing of some of the items that all of these generate lead points. But some of the big things of course are the odor control, walk-off mats to reduce odors being tracked in, using low VOC products during construction that will reduce the odors.
 And then just overall, the odor controls that have been included in it, there's a filtration system provided. The system will run at all times, will bring in outside air to help reduce the odor inside the building and overall make a much more productive environment for the employees. The first item that is in front of you is the construction bid, and again, that was 3.3.
 seven million dollars And then also a construction change order to go along with that for the net amount of a little over three million dollars There also is a proposed budget adjustment This was intended to be a three and a half million dollar project The proposed budget adjustment goes takes it up to about four point one million dollars it's mostly a collection of funds and
 from other projects that have been completed, but there is proposed $318,000 from the Solid Waste Reserve Fund to include into this project to increase the project up to $4.1 million.
 And lastly, we as a project team are disappointed that the bids came in as high as they did. As we've said, we've seen bids come in higher. There's really not much we can do about it. That's the construction business out there right now. So we're certainly not pleased by that.
 having higher bids. We do feel like we've done everything we can working with the contractor to get the bids down as much as possible. This is a much-needed space that the division needs for their needs now and for in the future and so we recommend that you approve this construction bid. And I do have there are other staff here if you have specific questions we have our design consultant here as well if anybody has specific questions.
 mr brown thank you for your presentation and the effort you put into this project it looks quite nice tell me the current the way it is right now square footage in the office area do you know what the size of that area is the current office area is approximately 2 800 square feet
 And once this new building is built, what will it be then? The total, it's about 5,400 square feet of additional. So 5,400 plus 2,800? Right. So I believe that's 8,200. Okay. And you mentioned that the funding for this project, $300 or so thousand, was coming from the reserve fund.
 and the rest of the funding was coming from other projects that had been completed and this was leftover money? That's correct. How were those projects funded? Where did that money come from to fund those other projects? All of this funding is from the solid waste fund, so it's all generated by the, from the solid waste income. And how does that fund grow? How does money get into the solid waste fund?
 Well, I'm certainly not an expert on all of how the funding works, but obviously they have revenue streams from the ratepayers, also from some of the recycling efforts. There are revenue that come in from those activities. I would think, and I'd have to have Mr. Becker here to explain this, but I would suspect that 90 to 95 percent of the funding into that fund comes from ratepayers. Those are the citizens of Fayetteville, those are the taxpayers that we're charging.
 We're fixing to spend $4 million building a building that the taxpayer's funded. That's a hidden tax in my mind. We overcharged them $4 million, and now we're going to spend it on ourselves. I'd rather see us give the money back. If I overcharge my clients, they expect me to write them a check and refund it to them. But here, if we've overcharged them for their trash and recycling to generate $4 million worth of funding, now we're going to put it in a building and about triple our square foot's
 the size of the building. I agree it's a lovely building. It'd certainly be a much nicer work environment. But you see the problem? The taxpayers paid that money. I'm not sure we should see it as our money to spend the way we want to. And I realize we've already probably signed contracts or made obligations. We've certainly paid for architectural drawings. But those are things that go through my mind. That came from somewhere, not out of thin air.
 Unlike the state legislature, we can't manufacture money out of thin air and pass laws about rate reductions, things of that nature. I have trouble with the system for that reason. I'll give you a little further information as far as, yes, I mean, the additional money has come from rate studies done in the past that we have funds built in every year to try and anticipate the,
 future growth needs of the division, of the needs of the division, both in this money can be used for vehicles, it can be used for building, for site improvements, for anything we need to do to continue to provide the extra service we provide to the citizens.
 You know, and it grows at different rates over the past years. This money's been accumulated for many years in the past. We've known these other needs were going to be coming, so we tried to build up a fund balance where we'd be able to address them when those...
 those needs become apparent that we need to address them at that time. So also funding comes from us selling our recycling products that we collect on the street. We've had years where we've made a million dollars on that on really good years, and this year has been a bad year. The markets have fallen off really badly. So we try and anticipate that also. It's been an accumulation of everything from building the recycling drop-off centers, to
 and the composting pad that was going up there a while ago.
 We spent all that. We tried to look for ways, anticipate what those estimates are going to be. We've been lucky doing those in a time where there was kind of an economic turn down for the construction business, so we got some very good bids and ended up with savings of half a million dollars over on something that we were anticipating costing one and a half cost one million.
 That's kind of just a little basic description of where that funding has come from. I mean, one of the things we're looking at to do soon is to do another rate study and determine what those rates currently need to be. It's been many years since we've done that. So that will be addressed here coming up in the next year or so. But that gives you a little bit more background on where that funding has come from, and we've accumulated it over time.
 10 to 15 years to be able to address these needs when they did arise. And like Chris has said, our workforce has gone up 30% in those years. We also look at this because we're also looking into the future on how can we educate our public because we currently do it now. We have a meeting there with a group of high school students to try and educate them on the advantages of recycling.
 If it's a clear day, Brian meets them with them out in the parking lot in the front of the building because we do not have a space big enough to get a class of 30 or 40 people in there to do it. We then tour them through the building. We try and do that in the safest manner as possible. We're trying to manage how the truck traffic comes in and out so we can minimize the interaction between people we have there trying to set up service, people there touring the building,
 be educated. So, you know, we need additional space for that. We're looking to potentially expand our recycling programs in the future. So any opportunity we can get to have a good learning facility and get more of these students in there and be educated, the more likely they are to recycle. So we're looking for a return on investment from the students and the folks that come there to realize what we are trying to accomplish at the Recycling and Trash Center.
 But that's just another reason also why we're looking for space. We do not have space to do any of those type of programs currently. So I won't address anything else here. A minute, John. Alan? Terry, we apparently have $4.1 million in cash ready to spend it on this building. Do we have more than that in the building?
 How much money is there? Mr. Becker, he reserved some to have kind of like the general fund. I think he has around 60 days operating capital for that. He tries to hold back and reserve. We probably have somewhere in the neighborhood of another million dollars. Possibly two and a half to three million. Two and a half to three million above the four million, so six, seven million dollars.
 Yeah, and those are, you know, we did not try and do this where we were going to expend down everything out of that because we do not know what future needs might arise as we make decisions about our recycling program, you know, that we're evaluating at this time. Will that result in capital needs to address those changes that you all might vote based
 the studies we're doing at this time so um we're we're trying to strike a balance between getting the needs to try and do what we feel like we can do to expand our programs meet the needs of our staff and any future needs for the next 20 or 30 years and also keep a sharp eye on what we might need based on any changes because i mean at any time you could give us direction to change how we were doing a recycling program or to add something
 And so that's why the reserves are there. Could one of those changes be to go to, say, like Springdale does, a waste management recycling, which would make all these facilities maybe obsolete? It could be if that was the direction you chose to go as a group. We have an election coming up November of next year, and there could be some changes on our city council, and we could change our direction. But we're going to spend $4 million today at maybe sunk costs. I can only address the current situation of...
 of presenting it to you and accepting whatever decision you all make as a group that is currently here. Because I can't worry about the future in that I can't control it. I'm looking at this. I do have some questions that I just saw. It looks like I missed a couple things when I was reading through this. But generally, I would say that this is the opposite of one of those situations we ran into earlier this night that was so frustrating, like the fireman's pension.
 Where we were blindsided almost by the need to come up with money. I'm not saying that what we're building is 100% perfect or for a good reason. But generally to your point, John, I think that saving money over the years to prepare for site improvements at a city property is a good idea and not a bad idea because it helps our citizens prepare so they don't have to have a huge rate hike or a tax increase to cover a facility that's 20 years old that needs to be replaced.
 Anyway, back onto the questions I have. I see it's on page 323 of the packet. It says current funds available are approximately 2.1 million and the proposed budget adjustment includes reallocation of funds remaining in the following capital projects to increase the solid waste office and transfer station expansion project.
 It lists $480,000 from the compost site slab expansion, $31,000 from the west side recycling drop-off facility, $591,000 from the recycling drop-off facility north central project, and $40,000 from the solid waste project. Do we really have a need to divert those funds? I mean, I guess my answer to that is,
 Most of the 2.1 was other savings through other projects, things that we had consolidated to be able to put to this project. We then went out with Chris leading this project of going out and determining what the additional cost to fund this building would be. And then it come back. So where the other 1.4 comes from is those that you just listed, like we saved money, we got good prices, and did the compost pad.
 So that's where that $400,000 and some thousand came from. The $500,000 out of the west side, we originally were going to try and locate that out at the water and sewer plant on the west side of town. Due to the difficulty of the terrain and the project that we bid out there, it was $800,000 or $900,000 the bid came back at. We knew we did not have the money to do that.
 So at that time, we started looking for other potential properties around town that the city owned. And we settled on the spot there on North Street. We determined that we had that potential there.
 very close to the trail, so we thought that we'd have a lot of people passing by that. It was centrally located. We were trying desperately to get something on the north side or towards the west side of town that was easier for the west side folks to get to. It's right on the main route in from the wet side, kind of centrally located, and the transportation division ended up building that facility, doing all the drainage work, fixed a bad drainage problem in that area while we were doing it,
 uh... built that facility and we built a facility for two little over a little over two hundred thousand dollars say two eighteen or something but we worked with engineering to design it we came up with something that would work uh... i think it's turned out to be a fantastic hit citizenry i think that north and west side now feel like they have somewhere to go without having come all the way to my office facility on the southeast part so we we took a project that had
 $600,000 or $700,000 in it, did it for $200,000, and that there's another close to a half a million dollars that we saved by doing efficient things. So by then taking that money and adding it, and we did not go ahead and just immediately dump that extra million or so dollars in there, because we figured we would bring all this, be transparent, and say, here's this money coming, and then what from fund balance. If any, we hope for none.
 The bids didn't come out that way. And then to bring that all, and that's why you've got, you know, I don't really look to bring $1.4 million budget adjustments to the council. I'd rather bring them at $20,000. They're more palatable. But we wanted to bring it, show where it was all coming from, show we had enough to get
 and then to balance it out with the remaining funds, plus then ask for anything else we need from fund balance. Okay. That makes sense. I was just wanting to double-check a couple things. So...
 One of my other questions is you mentioned a learning facility for education. That's something that I know I've talked about a lot is education is really the key to our recycling program and its success and we don't really have an in-house Fayetteville recycling education program. I see a very large break room and a meeting room. It's rooms 117 and 120 it looks like in the architectural renderings.
 Is that going to be a solid wall? That can be partitioned off there where you can see that other table there. That lower part there where the table's turned left to right. You can kind of see an indent there between the two rooms where there'd be a partition there. That could be partitioned off and you could have a...
 Something else two meetings going on in that space But it would be large enough when we opened it up that we could at least get all the staff in there Currently, you know if we have any type of meeting where we try and get everyone in there they either come to my break room at the transportation division or else if if
 I mean, as basic as having a Christmas party or something like that to where we try and provide food and everybody brings food and we feed everybody and get everybody together at the end of the year. We go out and clean out the container building, which is a warehouse, and have that meal there because we cannot house everybody in the room at the same time. We tried that one year and it was sardines in a can.
 So what about students and volunteer education? So we have plans of spending the money on the educational space. Do we have plans of creating an education program to use in that space? I mean, you know, Brian and his education programs can use it for that. We'll also have a lot of wall space in there that we can have educational displays set up in that. The little entryway here on the little bump out on the left is kind of a...
 kind of an airlock-like entry area, which we plan on setting up educational things there. Also, don't we still have that display we were gonna try to do with recycled materials outside there in that condition? No, we don't. We were gonna try and do something there to show reuses of recyclable materials, like we have a recycling tree over along the Mary Norton facility that was made out of aluminum. We were gonna try and do something there
 Also, now if somebody comes to pick out their trash can size, they do it outside in the weather. Because we do not have the space to do that inside. So, I mean, lots of educational purposes. We hope to use that space for both that. I mean, we use it as a break room where we fill it up once or twice a day. But the guys are out at 4.
 The last ones come in at 4 in the evening, and during the day no one's in there, so we can use that space for those educational purposes. Okay, and so my last question for now, and then I'll leave you alone is, so we're in this process of figuring out what we want our future needs to be, and Kessler Consulting is doing the project on that.
 So we don't think whether our office needs, whether they be educational, staff, meeting areas, whatever they may be, we don't think that they could change based on that study? Well, that's what Chris talked about. We potentially have three open offices. Right. And we share 50-50 with Washington County. Right. Right now, an education person.
 When they come to our office, they have to work in Brian's office because they have no space to go to at this time. This is taking an effect. They would have a space in one of these new offices also. Is that three additional offices above that or is that part of one of those?
 Two additional above that with that one person, that half-time person having an office also. My question was really do we think that our needs could change for office space based on the results of that study? Not to exceed the extra two that we have in the plan. What about to minimize if our needs are less than this based on the results of that plan?
 I don't currently seeing our needs for our staff reducing because if it's back our staff is now based on currently what we are doing we've been given no direction that you intended to reduce what we're doing we just might expand it based on on this we're not really looking at reduction okay I mean if we were directed that way yes we could but there's also plenty of other
 Areas in our area down there the space would not go use and use for some purpose Well, I just I just wanted to ask I thought there were questions that needed to be brought up. So thank you very much I'd like to ask a human resource question or Painted scenario because one thing that bothered me and I don't know if our HR director is here Don. I know you have a
 extensive history in payroll and staff and staffing and HR so maybe you can answer this or maybe there's not really an answer but one thing that bothered me is that it sounds like makes it more difficult to have if there's a necessary HR situation or conversation that comes up internally between a manager and let's say an employee or whatever the situation is. It bothers me that we are cramped for space to
 to even have those conversations in private. And in one of my corporate trainings, and I don't remember the specifics, there are so many specific rules around what has to be done legally when someone has an HR situation and there was a time, and I can't remember again the details, where someone,
 took someone into a temporary office that wasn't really they didn't really have an office to have an HR conversation and someone walked in at a moment when these people were talking about the sensitive issue that was causing the conversation in the first place things were overheard and that person sued I think the company at the time and it cost them millions and millions of dollars so my worry when I heard about this was I mean I don't know if there's legal issues here but
 I mean, do you guys feel confident and comfortable that there's even enough space there to have if an HR situation came up? And if not, I mean, how are we prepared to deal with those kind of situations in the current environment? Because that bothers me a great deal, even at the level of if someone just wants to have a private conversation about...
 an hr situation that they can't in this environment or there's no place to go that just bothered me when i well i mean in our current situation we technically have two offices with supervisors that are well i guess we have three counting brian because he's he's over a few folks but mostly it's our uh it's jeff's office or it's it's kyle mccarty's office who is operations manager so there's really those two you know in any situation you want
 Your lowest level managers dealing with the situations as low as possible because that's how you train them to get more prepared to move up in your organization in the future. So if you've got a small problem that you're addressing with a driver, you know, one of our crew leaders would normally handle that. They would have to come in and ask either have them stay or ask them if they can use their office at this time, either Kyle's or Jeff's office.
 And then that's really all we've got for private space anywhere in the building other than because most of the other officers are never vacant. They work in their offices all the time.
 Well, let me just say, Don, as far as, well, and I think you're doing the best job you possibly can. I just think you're in kind of a bad situation where you even have to make those decisions of, well, let's shuffle and move and hope somebody's not in this office or whatever. Again, we're going back to the hope as a strategy thing and it's not ever. All my field operations supervisors and my system managers in transportation have offices where they can deal with that behind closed doors.
 We have more space and the ability to do that and not where everybody in the office hears about that or runs into that. And it could, like you said, could happen. You never know if all the ifs line up and the wrong guy opened the door. We like to be able to, you know, usually when we're talking to our employees, we go in and lock our door, and we don't have that possibility. They can lock it, but they've got two choices. If three things are going on at once, we'd have no ability to do it.
 okay thank you very much more this has been discussed extensively over the past several years in the water sewer solid waste committee none of it's surprising we have grown exponentially in the processing and management of solid waste down in this area we have new activities i mean you can go back to the composting we have
 Our staff has grown out of a necessity in order to meet the growth in the population. And all of this has been discussed with an eye on the future, at least the six years I've been on the committee and the three or four years that I've chaired it. First of all, I want to say that there is no staff that I've ever worked with professionally.
 that is more in tune of looking for savings any chance they get without a negative impact on what the use of the funds were for. And if you look at the return in funds that we have through our value engineering with this group,
 It's pretty remarkable because if you're in a private corporation, a lot of times you'll take the funds and use them so you don't have to return them. These pooled funds have allowed us to move forward in a much needed facility that's offering safety, it's offering the capacity for our staff to operate in a professional manner,
 It's a necessary operation as far as the management of the waste collection and the transfer of the solid waste. We have the whole operational program here that we're looking at, and we've always had an eye on this in the future, and it's built into the current rate. The current rate already has this built in, and we've collected it, and there is the...
 amount in the reserve specifically for this type of surprise that we had that is costing a little bit more. But because we built this with a look into the future and we did it responsibly, we do have the funds there and we'll still have the funds there for future activity after Kessler. But if you think there's not going to be an increase in your
 collection of solid waste we don't know until Kessler gets it but this is going to meet the needs that we have now with an eye on the future with a very well designed a very hardy a very institutionally professional planned facility so that we can grow into it
 And that's how a lot of people say, well, that seems like a lot for square footage. This is an industrial operation. This is a heavy-duty operation. This is a very taxing operation when it comes to the manpower. This is an operation that we're looking at improving the capacity by having good 
 personnel management and good processes. And it's only by having this facility that we're going to be able to continue with the processes that we have now and to improve the processes. So that's what we looked at whenever we went as the committee and as input from the staff as we moved forward. So this isn't a surprise. The surprise was we got a lot of other projects done during the...
 when there was the availability of some lower bids so that we could go ahead and move forward on this. This is so needed. If you go down to our facility and you see the excellence in which these individuals were, in spite of the fact they don't have a facility to accommodate what they're doing, there's doors that are blocked. There are safety issues. They're just the...
 The patterns, when you walk around to try to get from one place to the other, are very complicated because it's so crowded and so inefficient. So, again, we're looking into the future. This is a facility that is not at all haphazard. It's well designed. It's an industrial facility. It's an industry that is...
 I don't know how, you have to look at the way that the operations are engineered as well as the large trucks. And so we have to have the safety, we have to have the training, we have to have this to manage this incredibly large amount of solid waste that comes in through the facility. So I think that really,
 I'm offering my commendation to the way that this project has been managed through the value management and through the capacity that this organization has worked together to save funds so that we could go ahead and accomplish what is so needed. So this is certainly something that's already built into the rate structure and it is a very forward-looking operation in order to get us
 where we need to be in excellence. So that's the long-term view of this facility if you're looking out for what we have in the capacity in the future. If we have a change in our model because of Kessler, we're still going to have to collect and have a facility where we
 Most likely, it's going to have to be our facility. We're going to have to collect it.
 as we are now in this very industrial operation. So it's so needed and I certainly would encourage our city council to understand the professionalism that we've worked toward getting to this point and approve this adjustment. It's a very minor adjustment when you look in the total cost of the operations. I think John and then Sarah, you.
 Mr. Gulley, I'll have a couple of questions for you, but let me answer that. I mean, Alderman Kenyon, I agree it's a very professional proposal and it's, you know, from your view, we should be in that position. I keep thinking about my associate who lives in Springdale and he pays about half what we pay for trash collection and recycling. That's, we can prove that empirically.
 Okay, so all that professionalism doesn't come for free. We're paying for it and apparently we've accumulated seven million dollars Additional in that fund from our ratepayers so that we can fund these buildings Maybe that's what the people of Fayetteville want. Maybe that's what this council wants That's that's all well and good if you want to spend your money that way but my money I'd rather save on the rates and get a lower rate like the people to our north or
 and maybe make do with something a little lesser than what we're proposing. Mr. Gulley, I have a question. You mentioned rate studies, coming up with rate studies. How long have you worked for the city in your current position? Since 2003, January 2003. How many rate studies have you been involved with since you've been here? I haven't been involved in any. I'll rephrase that.
 As far as relating to recycling trash, probably 2011 to the current. I've been the transportation manager since 03. The last rate study for the solid waste and trash division was in 1996. Okay, and that study showed an increase or decrease in the rate?
 I don't know the answer, but I can get that to you. I'm sure it was probably an increase from the prior rate study, which is done typically every five to six years. The city has not done one in the waste management because prior to the last two years where the council has an ordinance that has a CPI adjustment, the council had not adjusted rates upward in that same five to six year period. I suspect you're right, Chief of Staff.
 I think probably a study would show a rate increase, not a rate decrease. That may exasperate the problem I'm discussing right here. I think our rates may be too high. Maybe that's what we want. Maybe that's what the people of Fayetteville want. Maybe they want to pay high rates so that they can have this level of professionalism that we're discussing.
 I would think that there's a group of people among our citizens that would rather have more money in their pocket so maybe they could pay higher tax to fund the fireman's pension or something like that. I mean, it's all related. All this money is coming from our citizens, and it's going into a pot that we're charged with the responsibility of managing, and those are questions we have to ask ourselves. Now, you may disagree. That's fine. I mean, you can have your own opinion. You see the problem I have supporting this project.
 Terry, you mentioned that the break room, sometimes there are 30 people in the break room. How long have 30 people been meeting in the break room? A year, two years, three years, a couple of months? Well, like Chris said, you said from when we had 30. We had 30. In 1995, we had 35 total employees. So we've grown around 21 employees over the course of the last 20 years. So...
 So you have 50 or so employees? We have 56 employees in the division at this time. So how often do you have 30 of those employees in that room at one time? Seems like a lot. Seems like they should be out working. Well, when they're meeting there is in the mornings when they're being dispersed. They have a meeting to discuss any potential needs that might have arised or any changes they need to make. Are there 30 seats in the room or some people are standing?
 No, you, well we've right now got, I think there's six long tables in there at this time. We don't have to set up for 30 seats all the time. So some of them are standing because we're usually, that's a meeting that lasts anywhere from 10 to 15 minutes according to what information has to be put out to them.
 Maybe they sit all day in a driver's seat so they'd rather stand, right? Possibly. I mean, they're just coming in, they're getting out of their cars and getting there. So, you know, we're dispersing them and that's fairly quick meeting. It's the same way at my division. You know, they're for a short period of time. That's why I was saying that the room can be used for other potential educational sources during the middle of the day. The group that comes in at 4 leaves at noon. The group that comes in at 6
 Some of them leave at 2. Some of them leave at 4 PM at the end of the day. And then the office staff is there until 5. So I mean, there's various. Is there 30 people in that room all the time? No. But if you try and have a training session where you're trying to educate.
 folks to meet the needs. We've got a lot of employees that have worked to get their license in solid waste through ADEQ. We've got 30 or 40 people involved in that. There's no place really to, if we have a large group, to train everyone at the same time.
 There's a difficulty in that. There's not 30 people sitting in there all day long, but they are at the beginning and end of each shift. And we also need the additional space to try and ramp up the educational programs as we try and increase. Whether we go the route with the plans we're studying now for increased recycling, we're still always going to be trying to ramp up through our education program through the school system, because if we can educate the kids, we
 We have the best of them getting their parents involved and them growing up into be citizens that will recycle. So all that leads to reducing the amount of tonnage that goes to the landfill and every ton we reduce there saves us between $30 and $40 a ton that we don't have to pay for. So we're constantly looking to reduce that footprint going to the landfill, extend the life of it.
 get more plastic bottles and aluminum cans that we can sell to increase our revenue stream, which the more we can do that, the more we offset and delay having to raise rates in the future. So that's where we are. I mean, that's the best explanation I can give you. Okay. Sarah, you asked your question. I just want to say this is not a surprise. You know, we've been talking about this in the Water Sewer Committee for years.
 This reserve money that we've built up is not a result of overcharging our rate payers. It's a result of responsible, long-range planning.
 It's the equivalent of knowing that your family is growing and that you're going to need to buy a larger house, so you set aside a certain amount of money every month in anticipation of that expense. So it's not a surprise. We've planned and budgeted for this responsibly so that we now have the money to do it. The $2.1 million overrun, let's put that in perspective. We spend over $2 million every year on landfill tipping fees alone.
 And so by expanding this resource recovery facility, that enables us to spend less on throwing valuable resources into our diminishing landfill space. So I want to commend this group for not only...
 Carrying on with this plan and helping us build this new resource recovery facility But also doing it in a way that will reduce our energy costs by saving over 22% as the anticipated Annual energy savings of this building versus a baseline building as well as I believe it was over 50% Water savings, so we're building a very efficient building that I believe our city can be proud of and we'll set a good example for Our citizens as they come in and learn about resource recovery and responsible use
 And so I think that this is a fantastic plan and I move that we go to the second reading on this. Well, it's a resolution. It's a resolution. I move we approve the resolution. Second. Okay. We have to take some public comment. Okay. Yes. Everybody knows the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Give us your name, address. Keep your remarks to me and we'll get your questions answered if you have any as we go along. Good evening, Louise.
 Louise Mann, 629 Gray Avenue. First off, thank you all so much for keeping the drop-off centers beautiful. Thank you. Appreciate that. I may have missed something. I heard a lot of talk about offices, but not any talk about operations. Yes.
 So is the transfer station going to stay intact the way it is right now? Is the recycling facility where we're bailing, our collected materials going to stay the same as it is right now? Okay. The answer to that is yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you. And so we know that before the Kessler study has come back, the pilot project, single stream is a very, very different collection and process than the,
 What we're doing currently. This renovation has nothing to do with the transfer center, any move towards single stream. It's maintaining the operation and collection of the residential exactly as it is. I need him to talk a little louder, please. I can't hear. It's remaining exactly as it is today. It is continuing as a transfer floor with no single stream conversion process. Recycling continuing to be processed as is.
 So if we switch to single stream, has it already been decided that Georgia Pacific will run the single stream facility so we don't need to make any operational changes? There has been no decision on the single stream movement.
 I'm sorry? There's not been a decision on single stream. But if we do switch to single stream, it's a very, very different facility. And as we know, you know, single stream has been exposed as a failed experiment nationwide. And so those people who are still looking at single stream are looking to build a...
 magic bullet facility that's going to be quite expensive and it's going to Require a lot of money so as a taxpayer I would ask you to wait on any changes in our physical facility until we get the report back from Kessler Because it's a very different operation than our clean current program. Okay. Thank you. Thank you Miss man Louise, can I ask you a question? I?
 Yes, sir? In your presentation you referenced a, something that was exposed, single stream effort was exposed as not accomplishing its goals. Could you expand on that?
 The Washington Post, the Wall Street Journal, Resource Recycling, the San Francisco Chronicle, Chattanooga News Free Press, I'm happy to provide those articles to council and staff showing the huge problems that have come forth with single stream. At WasteCon in June, the four major waste haulers in the country announced that single stream, well, let me quote the waste management CEO who said, we screwed up.
 They acknowledge it's a myth, the contamination rates are very high,
 There's secondary contamination. Materials can get through a MRF, and then they end up, let's say, in the paper company. The paper bale gets burst open, and there are Coke cans and other liquid containers that have stuck to the paper. I did a recycling trash class at the library, and we Skyped in a woman who studies, she's an economist and a scientist, and she studies the numbers. She was a proponent of single stream. Her name is Susan.
 Collins, and she's with the Container Recycling Institute, and she was a very big proponent of single stream. And the first time I spoke with Susan on a conference call, I asked, have you ever worked a sort line? And she admitted she had not. But what she did do in the years after she proposed single stream was go study it. And what she discovered was the contamination rates are very high because there's secondary contamination where stuff gets into the bale and gets to the facility.
 At our trash class that we held at the Fayetteville Public Library, she talked about being in a paper mill and watching them pull out a $300,000 piece of equipment. It's the paddler that had been destroyed by the little tiny shards of glass. You can't unscramble an egg, but I'm happy to provide all these articles, and I wish that staff would read them. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Mann. Okay, who else would like to address this? See, now I'll bring it back to the council. Okay.
 Okay. We have a motion and a second. Final comments? Okay. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. No. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. No. It passes. Okay. Okay.
 Would the council like a break for about 10 minutes? You want to keep going? All right, all right, all right. All right, number five. A resolution to approve amendment number three to the agreement with McGoodwin, Williams, and Yates Incorporated for construction, value services associated with recycling, trash collection, division, office building expansion, and site improvements in an amount not to exceed $217,861. Chris. Chris.
 This is the second of two items for the recycling trash collection project. This is a $217,000 contract. Not to exceed that amount, it is based on hourly rates for McGiddon, Williams and Yates. This is to provide the construction phase services, reviewing submittals and making sure that the contract, the work is done in accordance with their designs.
 This is included in the project budget that we talked about before so it is part of the project already What Discussion do we have? We have where do we we have never an item. It's about the same project, but it's Yeah, do we have any questions for Chris? Chris
 Ms. Mann, I thought brought up a very valid point. You know, if we're moving to a single-stream recycling strategy, can we use this $4 million facility, or do we have to come back and redo a lot of things? Well, again, the proposal in front of you is an office expansion for existing and future staff. Some of the operations areas that the...
 the MRF and the existing transfer floor. There may be some changes related to that. That's got to go through the study. But again, in front of you is the office expansion for the office staff, and we don't believe that's going to change. Chris, if we decided to go to a private collector of trash and recycling like our neighborhood north does, would we need this facility?
 Well, I think that would be something that would have to be discussed, and I'm not really the expert on that, but potentially if it were privatized, then the private entity could use this same office space.
 building as a lease type space, something like that. There are a lot of answers there. I'll answer that. If we were going to outsource our recycling and trash facilities to a private provider, we would not need this facility. Okay. Don, there still has to be a collection facility somewhere.
 Yes, but I guess the question is would we be building an office space because typically the administrative staff, the collection staff would all be employees of the outsourced provider housed wherever they chose to do so. Well, let's release it to them. Thank you, Don. All right. Any other questions? All right. Anyone in the public like to address us on this item? So now I'll break back to the council. We have a motion and a second.
 Mr. Conner, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Lature? No. OK. Number six, a resolution to authorize a contract with Grubbs, Hoskins, Barton, and White, Incorporated for Materials Testing Services for the Recycling Trash Collection Facility Expansion and Improvements Project in an amount not to exceed $25,000. Chris?
 This is the third of three items on the same project. It's a materials testing services contract with Grubbs, Hoskin, Barton, and Wyatt. It's, again, an hourly rate contract not to exceed $25,000. This is for verification that construction materials brought to the site meet the specifications. Matthew? Mayor, may we pass the resolution? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Do we have any questions for Chris on this item? Okay. Any public comment on this?
 OK, I'm going to bring back to the council. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmars. Latour. No. Okay, number seven. An ordinance to approve vacation 15-5206 submitted by the Georgians and Associates Corporation for property located at 5026 East Talon Trail to vacate a drainage easement.
 Chairman, oh sorry, Kent. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described drainage easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the drainage easement as described in Exhibits A and B attached here too.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached here to it as a given day, shall be filed into the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Jeremy.
 This is a drainage easement located in the Falcon Ridge subdivision. It's located south of Huntsville Road between Hunt Lane and Tallgrass Drive in southeast Fayetteville. The easement was dedicated to the city in 2001. However, there are no drainage infrastructure located within that easement. The owner of one of the lots has applied for a building permit. Drainage easement prohibits any structure from being located on that road.
 The owners of all the lots impacted by this easement are requesting to vacate the easement. All the necessary storm pipes were installed in the subdivision located within other easements or right of way. Therefore, staff has recommended approval and the planning commission did as well, 8 to 0. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Al? I have a question. It's more of a matter of process. Usually on these vacations of easements, we see the engineering firm who's requesting it. Could we also have the property owner added to that?
 Added to the request? Mm-hmm. I'm sure we could. I'm guessing an engineering firm wouldn't request it without the property owner wanting it. The application must be signed, the actual physical application, which is not included in your packet, must be signed by the property owner. So we do get permission from the property owner for normally an engineer and architect to represent them. So that's likely what you're seeing. Could we start getting a copy of that in our packet? The entire application? Mm-hmm. Sure. Okay.
 Any other questions for Jeremy on this? Do I have any comments from the public on this? They're going to bring it back to the council. We move to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Latour. Yes.
 And ordinance to approve VAC 15-5206, submitted by Jorgensen and Associates, Incorporated, the property located at 5026 East Allen Trail, to vacate a drainage easement. Motion to suspend the rules and move to third and final reading. Second. I have a motion to second and go to third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutre. Yes.
 In ordinance approved VAC 15-5206 submitted by Jorgensen and Associates Incorporated, the property located at 5026 East Talon Trail to vacate a drainage easement. Any final comments from the council on this?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Tenet. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay, number eight, an ordinance to amend ordinance number 3936 by admitting the restrictions which had prohibited restaurants by allowing such use unit 13 restaurants with outdoor music as conditional uses of public.
 upon a 2.24 acre parcel lot six on the southwest corner of Van Ash and Steel Boulevards kit. Whereas on November 7th of 1995, the Fayetteville City Council rezoned a parcel containing the 2.24 acre lot under consideration on the southwest corner of Van Ash and Steel Boulevard from A1, which is would now be RA to C1 neighborhood commercial quote with restrictions, unquote. In
 And whereas these restrictions had been negotiated between the landowners and the residents of a neighborhood cutting this parcel and operated as a bill of assurance to prohibit, among other C1 uses, restaurants.
 And whereas the owner and the proposed developer of the 2.24 acre parcel, lot 6, within this larger rezoned parcel, wishes to build a brewery and restaurant and therefore has requested that existing restrictions be modified and amended to allow such development.
 Now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 1 of Ordinance Number 3936 by adding the following, quote, However, use Unit 13, Eating Places, is allowed as of right on the 2.24 acres of Lot 6 on the southwest corner of Van Asch and Seal Boulevard.
 Lot 6 is further described and shown on Exhibits A and B attached here too. And Section 2, that the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville is hereby amended to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above. Chairman. This is a property located at the southwest corner of Steele Boulevard and Van Asch Drive. It's near a furniture store, Bassett Furniture, also near Cattleside.
 west of Target, another restaurant in that area. It's part of lot six of the CMN subdivision. In 1995, CMN subdivision did not exist in this location. The city council was going through a rezoning process for several hundred acres in this area. And this is one of those parcels. The property was rezoned to C1 neighborhood commercial, subject to a bill of assurance that was offered by the developers.
 and agreed to by the property owners in the adjacent Centerbrook subdivision, which is located to the southwest of the subject property. You'll see on page 12 of 43 in this particular agenda item the area that's in question that was discussed. The Planning Commission and City Council both cited concerns with some of the uses allowed in C1 because it was adjacent to a single family subdivision. And so the bill of assurance was applied to multiple properties to the north and east sides of that particular subdivision.
 It includes requirements for additional screening, additional setbacks from the subdivision boundary. It also provides a list of prohibited land uses, including restaurants, which is the question here tonight. The applicant is requesting an amendment to the bill of assurance that was adopted in 2000, I'm sorry, in 1995 to allow use unit 13, which includes restaurants or eating places on the subject 2.24 acres of lot six, which is proposed for development.
 The applicant has already submitted large-scale development plans for a little over 13,000 square foot building that would contain 7,500 square feet for a restaurant and a brewery, 4,600 square feet for office space, and 1,300 square feet additional for ancillary services. We were not able to process those plans because the council had placed the restrictions on this property as part of the rezoning request in 1995.
 The center subdivision, just for a little history, was planted in 1972, so it was there about 20 years before this particular business park was rezoned for the uses. And the rezoning that property to C1 was really only recommended when that agreement between the neighborhood and the developers was accomplished.
 was made through the bill of assurance amending the bill of assurance to allow those land uses was determining compatible at the time and was not appropriate in staff's opinion we did have five residents from the center brook subdivision spoke at the meeting one neighbor in favor of the request and four opposed by planning commission six to two in favor of the request i did mention at the agenda session i'll mention again just for the record
 A lot of discussion at the Planning Commission centered on whether the land use restrictions in the bill of assurance even apply to this property because the subject property has been subsequently split off from the parent tract and is no longer technically abutting
 In conjunction with the city's attorney's office, we did look at this. The city planner concluded that all of the properties south and west of the Van Ashtiel Boulevard intersection were clearly included in those restricted uses when it was rezoned to C1, and that's what I referenced in the packet on page 12. A formal letter of interpretation was forwarded to the applicant stating the city's position. It was included in your packet for your information. So your decision tonight essentially is to whether to amend this bill of assurance to allow for restaurant use on the subject property.
 Is the applicant here? Yes. Good evening. My name is Asa Hutchinson III. I'm an attorney representing the applicant. I'll just add to what Jeremy has stated, that the question about whether or not the restrictions or bill of assurance applies has already been answered, I guess, by staff. We did not appeal that decision because of the timeline that it takes to process that appeal. Our client is under contract to purchase this property and to develop it.
 The appeal process takes so long, we decided to go this route, requesting the restriction be lifted to the extent the council deems it applies. However, our position has always been that the restriction does not apply, and it's important to give some background in explaining why we had that position. I think everybody has in their packet this page.
 It's pretty abbreviated, but the Bill of Assurance or the agreement that was reached between the Centerbrook subdivision in 1995 and the developer defines the restricted property as the 400-foot strip running adjacent to and along the entire east boundary and a 400 strip running adjacent to and along the entire north boundary of Centerbrook. You can see we've highlighted the 400-foot strips.
 What was not included in our position with the restriction was the northeast corner, which is part of which where we want to build this brewery, restaurant, and office complex. I think this is important to show the intent of the neighborhood and where they were concerned with having restaurants and the other prohibited activities. The developer broker, Jim Irwin, who was brokering the deal in 1995, is here,
 It was his understanding the intent was not to restrict this corner. Also, there's an attorney here that was representing the developer that will give the opinion that it was never the intent to restrict this corner. I don't think that decision has to be yours tonight as to whether that restriction did in fact intend to be implied, but I think it's important and relevant in your deciding whether or not the restriction should be lifted in an appropriate ordinance. You can see from the map the actual...
 location of the proposed building is that red building in the corner, that red shape in the corner right, you see that there's several hundred feet buffer between the closest point of that building and the closest point of the Centerbrook subdivision. There's also a large mature tree line bordering the Centerbrook subdivision that also provides an additional buffer to the extent there is any concern about restaurant traffic or noise.
 The Planning Commission, as noted, took public comment, including from those from the neighbors, and took the planning staff's recommendation and decided to vote 6-2 in favor of recommending the granting of our request. We, of course, agree with that granting for several reasons. One, the actual property in question we don't believe was restricted.
 But also importantly, it's not going to affect the 400-foot strips that are clearly restricted. Those will not be affected by the requested ordinance. We're not undoing or requesting to be undone everything. So the intent of the property owners can still be realized by having the ordinance passed and leaving the remaining 400-foot strips intact as restricted. And number two, the actual...
 The proposed office building, brewery, restaurant is consistent with a highly developed and commercialized area. In 1995, the landscape there looked much different than it does now. You've got a number of restaurants, businesses, retail, office space, and other businesses along the surrounding area, the subdivision, as well as being planned on the Van Asch corridor
 So it's very different 20 years later than it was when this agreement was reached. We do have, I believe, one neighbor here that will speak in favor of the request. But also, more importantly, this proposal is not going to be a nuisance or otherwise interfere with the quality of life with the Centerbrook subdivision. I mentioned earlier the buffers.
 Also, by comparison, this restaurant will be smaller in size than, for example, Grubbs Restaurant, which is in nearby vicinity. It's smaller than the Fayetteville JJ's that you may know over on Weddington. The largest portion of the building will be corporate offices. Our client has six stores around the state, and it's consolidating its offices here in this building. There was mention about...
 music at the Planning Commission level because of the large-scale development did indicate there would be a area for perhaps live outdoor music and of course there'll be a separate process in place for applying for outdoor live music permitting and that would provide another safeguard for any residents might be concerned about that but it's we said the Planning Commission level say it here. It's not the clients intent to to
 make this some sort of music venue like the amp was, it would be very limited music, limited hours, perhaps a couple hours a week during the summer months. The restaurant tends to close by 10 p.m. Music would stop well before then. But again, that can be taken up in the live music permit application process.
 There were five residents in the Centerbrook subdivision that actually signed the agreement in 1995. Only one of those continues to reside in the Centerbrook subdivision. I don't know if he'll be here tonight to give his opinion or not, but again, the developer's agent, the developer's attorney, and the current resident are here in support of this application. They can speak to what their view of the intent was. With that, I'll take questions, if any.
 I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to get that. I'm
 to protect areas that might be sensitive to that. So they would have to do that. Correct, outdoor music establishments are a conditional use permit in any zone. Okay, so it doesn't matter where. That's correct. Downtown, east side, west side. There are some restrictions that are required in any zone that they're located within. The Planning Commission does have the ability to limit hours of operation, things of that nature, depending upon the sensitivity of adjacent properties, compatibility of adjacent properties.
 In order to intend, I was the author of the outdoor conditional use music ordinance and its intention was neighborhood protection. Okay, thank you. Yes, John. Mr. Hudson, my family and I reside approximately 400 feet from a fairly large venue here in town. And when there's 72,000 people over there, I can close my door. Not considering the fireworks, I can go to sleep. 400 feet is quite a long way.
 It had to be a pretty loud noise to penetrate my house and disturb me. I think we have double protection here. We have a geographic protection, 400 feet or so to the nearest home in Centerpoint subdivision. We should give them ample protection, just that geography. But we also have a noise ordinance that won't allow anybody other than my neighbor to make a lot of noise, etc.,
 I'd be very supportive of this proposal. I don't have a question necessarily. I have a comment and a question for Jeremy. You're welcome to stay up there if you want to, or you can sit down. You've sat here this long. I'll be available to answer questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Jeremy, if you look at this plot of land and then you go up north on Steele, eventually you come to the Joyce and Steele intersection.
 the restaurant that is currently in that shopping center on the northwest corner aren't they moving across into that space at the corner of joyce and steel aren't they building a facility there buffalo wilde's talking about aren't they moving next to taziki's correct on the south on the south on the south east corner which is almost as far from that subdivision i think that may be in johnson though the one that's across the
 the field to the east of... When you get past Joyce and...
 and steel intersection going west, I think you enter Johnson. Maybe that subdivision right there is not in Fayetteville actually now that I'm looking at it. That's correct. My point is it's not any different from that. And so we've got the same situation on the next corner up. And from what I understand, there's plenty of room there to Alderman Latour's point. I think there's plenty of room in this position too. When we opened up Van Asch, we stood there. When was that? A few weeks ago. Yep. And you can look down that road and see,
 a tremendous amount of growth opportunities along that for all types of businesses. It's an amazing addition to our city, and in this particular case, we have a reputable, fable business that is wanting to expand and invest in that corner, and so far I've heard nothing negative about it. There's a lot of difference in this area between 1995 and now, to say the least, and you have doctor's offices, retail,
 And I don't see any negative here because this business will have to follow all the rules and things that are already in place for these type of establishments. So I don't think we can set a precedent to not allow this and then expect, you know, the rest of this development to go smooth all the way over to 112. So I would be in support of this as well. Sure. I have a question for Jeremy. Sure.
 Something that we deal with in my neighborhood a lot is scent from restaurants, especially fast food restaurants. Do we have any ordinance? Because, you know, I'm not really concerned about the noise or the traffic affecting, impacting this neighborhood. But the smell of restaurants and restaurant grease, do we have any sort of ordinance that addresses that air pollution issue?
 air quality we have no we do not have any ordinances related to air quality those are a state issue and so are essentially are superseded I guess by the state statute we are specifically preempted by the state statutes from
 air quality. That's why our smoking ordinance could never go beyond the indoors to the outdoors because the state has taken that upon themselves and they control that completely. Thank you. Any other questions or what public comment do we have on this?
 My name is Mickey Harrington. I've been the attorney for the developer of CMN Properties, this entire thing, since about 1997. Missed this event by about two years. However, I'm going to just back up Ace's comments. No one in our group for all these 20 years has ever thought this corner was restricted. I'm not going to beat that horse because he's already talked about it a little bit. That's not the issue tonight, but the sellers...
 fully support the restrictions being lifted for all the reasons given. And we don't feel that this is a breaking of trust with the neighborhood. We never felt this corner was going to be a problem for the neighborhood. And the way they're situating their building is way out on the corner with a big distance, as has been discussed. So the seller completely supports this. For 20 years, we felt this was marketable for this type of use. And so we do hope that you can take any steps necessary to allow this to happen. Thank you, Megan.
 Mayor and council members, my name is Jim Irwin. I was here in 1995 when we started the development to come up with a mixed-use development. Jim, you looked a little different back then. I looked like Elvis Presley back in those days. But anyway, I'm here to represent the family and the Steele family, and we very much would ask for your support of this. Thank you, Jim. Who else would like to address us on this? Thank you.
 Good evening, my name is Marshall King and I reside at 3441 North Sandpiper Drive in Fayetteville, which is in the neighborhood in question. I'm 100% for this restaurant. I like being able to walk or ride my bicycle to businesses. That's something I really enjoy, something I really enjoy about Fayetteville. To go back, I really enjoy the trails. I also appreciate your diligence to be careful about the money we spend.
 uh... if noise is a consideration we live across the there's about pass basically interstate running through our front yard as the song says there's a hospital i hear helicopters like your sirens there's a train uh... and train tracks on the other side another four lines on greg another four lines on banash coals grubs another restaurant this restaurant jay jays will not add any kind of
 noise or issues that don't already exist. So I'm 100% for this and that's what I wanted to say. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Mr. Mayor, I have a question for their attorney, Mr. Hutchinson. Yep. You indicated that time was of the essence why you didn't do the appeal.
 Is that where, do you need to have this moved forward if possible tonight or? Yes. Thank you for the question. If possible, if there could be any suspension of the rules and waiving of the readings, that would be tremendously helpful with our contractual obligations. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. We would request that. Thank you. What's the wishes of the council? I move we move to the second reading. Second. Madam Chair, do you have a question? No. Okay. We have a motion and a second to move to the second reading. Assumption, please call the roll.
 Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. In order to amend ordinance number 3936 by amending the restrictions which had prohibited restaurants by allowing such use unit 13 restaurants with outdoor music as conditional uses upon a 2.24 acre parcel lot 6 on the southwest corner of Van Asch and Seal Boulevards.
 Move we spin the rules go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. An ordinance to amend ordinance number 3936 by amending the restrictions which had prohibited restaurants by allowing such use unit 13 restaurants with outdoor music as conditional uses upon a 2.24 acre parcel lot 6 on the southwest corner of Van Asch, Mitchell Boulevard's
 I guess I should admit for the record to Mr. Irwin, I look a little different too. Just in the last three years. In the last two hours. Any final comments from council? Okay. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. Thank you all.
 Number nine, an ordinance to annex that property described in the annexation petition. Yes, sir. A annex 15-5181 submitted by Curtis Hope, the property located at 1620 South Ed Edwards Road, contained approximately .83 acres. Kip? It would be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council hereby confirms the annexation to the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas of that property described in Exhibits A and B, attached here to and made a part hereof.
 Section 2 that the official map of the city of Fayetteville is hereby amended to reflect the zoning change To reflect the change provided in section 1 above Section 3 that the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas is hereby amended to assign the zoning designation of RSF 2 single family residential two units per acre to the subject property in section 4 that the above described property is hereby assigned to ward number one
 Okay, Chairman. Planning Commission is recommending annexing this property and assigning a zoning of RSF2, residential single family, two units per acre. The property is located at 1620 South Edwards Road, which is on the screen behind me. It contains approximately 0.83 acres. Obviously, it lies within Washington County, is adjacent to the city limits, so therefore it is...
 It does have the ability to annex within the city. The property is developed with a single-family home built in the 1970s. It is served by a city of Fayetteville Water. The reason stated for the annexation at this time is so that the property can be connected to public sewer. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy on this? We have the applicant here, though. Yes, we do. What do we have from the applicant? Okay.
 appreciate the opportunity to be here to represent in the mall very and this is that man her son Bryce who are here today. Edna has lived on the property in question for 40 years. I would note that in looking at the city's annexation guiding policies that
 This would satisfy virtually all except for maybe one that was raised by staff. But as far as being in conformity with those, that this would be a qualifying annexation. On behalf of Edna, I would submit that her overriding concern for this annexation is an issue as it relates to health, her health and the health in that particular area. I have some photographs if I could share these.
 Actually, it's a great photograph. We'll pass him around. Your photographs show that. And just a quick.
 uh... synopsis the where her properties located on ed edwards road she's at the very north and which actually clicks all the water that comes from the south down to where her property is located you know her property it's adjacent to city of favor property uh... and she collects all the water that runs uh... down at edwards road she has issues on septic obviously
 She has a situation that occurs one or two times each year. When the water collects on her property, does not run off of her property, she is unable to use her septic system.
 As a matter of fact, many times it will last for up to three weeks that she does not have the ability to use her septic system. This happens not only in rain, but oftentimes if the snow, if it's a big enough snow, then the same thing happens, it saturates the ground. So it is a health issue to her. It affects the value of her property and she has no intention of moving anywhere else. I think she's established that she will stay there.
 but she requests this annexation so we'll allow her to hook onto sewer in the city of Fayetteville. Additionally, it's my understanding, and y'all may be able to address this, but the ability to hook onto sewer is directly across the street. She's next to it. So it would be a relatively easy proposition for her to do that and would request the approval of the annexation. Any questions for Mr. Hogue on this?
 Thanks, sir. Thank you. We have any public comment on this thing now to bring it back to the council motion to suspend the rules I'm in the second reading Emotion second to go the second reading the sonner. Would you please call the roll? I
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shopmar? Yes. Latour? Yes. In Ordinance to Annex that property, I ascribe an annexation petition, ANX 15-5181, submitted by Curtis Hoag, for property located at 1620 South Ed Edwards Road, containing approximately 0.83 acres. Motion to suspend the rules and move to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to third and final reading.
 Sonder would you please color oh long? Yes gray. Yes Mars. Yes, yes Yes an ornithine access property described an annexation petition a and X 15-51 81 Submitted by Curtis Hogue for property located at 1620 South at Edwards Road containing approximately point eight three acres any final comments from the council
 I have a comment. Sure. This is typical of the problem we have with runoff in this area, and as the road was widened, and I hope that as there are improvements on this road that they'll have, they'll work cooperative in helping us manage this drainage problem that we have as we get more development out there. So certainly I support this.
 Anybody else? Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay, number 10, an ordinance to repeal 167.04J5, maintenance agreement and landscape establishment guarantee to enact 167. I would like to thank you, Jeff. Oh, sorry, ma'am. And I'll remember you when I vote in the city. Thank you. That's a close.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. I believe that made the whole evening. A little appreciation. Yes. Okay, let me read this again.
 Number 10, an ordinance to repeal 167.04J5 maintenance agreement and landscape establishment guarantee to enact 167.10 tree maintenance agreements and to amend 177.05A2F by deleting a portion of the subsection and enacting 177.10 tree maintenance agreements to improve maintenance and survivability of mitigation trees. Kitt.
 Whereas the Fayetteville's urban forester believes that requiring a tree maintenance contract with an approved landscaping company Will improve the amount of mitigation trees that survived three years as required by the tree ordinance and be more cost-effective for developers Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 167.04.J5, Maintenance Agreement and Landscape Establishment Guarantee, and enact Section 167.10, Tree Maintenance Agreements, to improve tree maintenance and survivability as shown on Exhibits A, attached here too. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 177.05.A2F,
 by deleting a portion of this subsection and enacting Section 177.10, Tree Maintenance Agreements, to improve tree maintenance and survivability as shown on Exhibit B attached here too. I almost got it right. That's a little tricky, isn't it? Okay.
 Thank you and I'm Derek Lynn, a staff urban forester at the City of Fayetteville. This is a proposal to provide another way in which developers and applicants can meet their tree maintenance agreements associated with their approved development and landscape plans to ensure that these newly planted trees are watered and maintained for the standard three year period. The maintenance surety is currently provided to the City of Fayetteville at the time of certificate of occupancy brought forward as a request by the development community.
 This proposal would add one more option on how developers could meet this requirement. Approval of 2015-04-74 would provide an option for developers to contract with the landscape company to provide this maintenance, and this proof of contract would be accepted in lieu of the aforementioned surety.
 Developers we heard from support this option as they sometimes have difficulty securing bond on trees yet they do have this active interest in seeing their investment mature and grow in the development and the neighborhood. Supporting this option would allow the money provided to go directly to the maintenance of trees rather than into this surety to provide inspiration to maintain
 The additional information you provided in your packet as an attachment simply corrects a typo staff found after the tentative agenda was submitted and the correction provides this option as appropriately to both street and mitigation trees as currently provided through the maintenance sureties and staff is recommending approval. Okay, what questions do we have for Derek?
 I'd like to thank the urban forester for working on this problem, and I do know that there are some developers awaiting the passage of this so they can take advantage of it and hire landscaping companies and This I think will certainly help the survivability of the trees because we want the trees to survive We don't want them just replanted in three years and we're all back to square one so I think this is a very good solution that the urban forester came up with and
 And at the agenda session, Alderman Petty asked about emergency clause. If you all would like to do that, I have an ordinance that I have drafted that would put in the emergency clause. So you would need to have a motion to amend to the document that I earlier sent to you, but I'm handing out again right now. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to amend the emergency clause on this, correct? OK.
 Any comments on that? Any discussion? Any public comment? Okie dokie. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmar? Yes. Votre? Yes. Okay. Now, any questions from the council on all this? I mean, any questions from the council or staff? Evening's beginning late on this.
 okay eric did you enjoy the meeting that you've been waiting through it's been a good one yes is there any public comment on this okay
 I'm gonna bring it back to the council. I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. An ordinance to repeal section 16704 J5, maintenance agreement and landscape establishment guarantee to enact section 16710, pre-maintenance agreements
 And to amend Section 177.05.A.2.F. by deleting a portion of this subsection and enacting Section 177.10. Tree Maintenance Agreements to Improve Maintenance and Survivability of Mitigation Trees and to pass an Emergency Clause.
 Move to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. In order to repeal Section 16704J5, Maintenance Agreement and Landscape Establishment Guarantee,
 to enact section 16710 tree maintenance agreements and to amend section 17705 a2f by deleting a portion of this subsection and enacting section 17710 tree maintenance agreements to improve maintenance and survivability of mitigation trees and to pass an emergency clause
 While we're talking about trees, I just wanted to say thank you to Derek and the park staff for their awesome job this weekend at the tree giveaway at the farmer's market. I was there at 7. There was a line around the block and staff was there to take care of everybody and glad to see that happen. You beat me there. Neither one of you beat me there. No. Wait a minute. I saw you. Yeah, I was there at 6. That's pretty tough. Okay. Any other final comments from the council? No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutere. Yes. We need a separate vote on the emergency clause, Mayor. Oh, okay. So shall the emergency clause pass or somebody move that it passes? I move that it passes. Second. Second. Second. Pass the emergency clause. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Okay. What announcements do we have? We have a Ward 4 meeting Monday the 26th at 6 p.m. room 111 of City Hall. This is my first Ward 4 meeting in three years that I'll have missed. I'm going to have to miss one of them. Okay.
 I have an announcement. Cross Church in Fayetteville is holding this Sunday four Fayetteville services where they'll be honoring our first responders, our police, and our fire in their church services. Church services are at 8 30 10 11 30. That's Cross Church in Ward 4 on Weddington. Thank you, John.
 Anyone else? Yes, Adele. Yes, we had a erroneous Ward 1 meeting announcement for Friday the 23rd and We do not usually have our Ward 1 meetings on Friday night so we will cancel that and if anyone has any
 I'm just to have a word one meeting please let Sarah or me know and we will schedule one very soon but there will not be one on Friday evening October the 23rd thank you okay mayor I've got a couple of announcements
 We're going to have an exciting Friday, this Friday, the 23rd at 11 a.m. We'd like to invite the public as well as the council to the ribbon cutting for the opening of our Spring Street Municipal Parking Deck structure, which is complete and will be available for parking on Friday. So the council and ribbon cutting is at 11 a.m. on Friday. It's 255 School Street if you want to program an address in your...
 GPS is the school street access entrance where the ribbon cutting will take place. Second item is the fable animal shelter is going to host its 5th annual free cat adoption. We have over 50 cats and kittens who need homes adoptions are free for all animals. All animals will be spayed or neutered microchip and vaccinated. The shelter opens at 10AM on Friday, the 23rd it's a first come first serve basis.
 Okay, anything else? All right, thank you all very much. We're adjourned.