I would like to call the special city council meeting to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Schottmeyer. Latour. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in reciting the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America,
 and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the only order of business we have tonight is under new business.
 Number one is an ordinance transferring the administration of the retirement coverage for eligible members of the Federal Fire Pension and Relief Fund, the Arkansas local police and fire retirement system, and authorizing the mayor to enter into an irrevocable agreement with Lofty and approving an emergency clause. Did you need to read that? Well, now we have more than five here. We can still suspend the rules if I can just read the title.
 Okay, I can read the body sorry late. Checked here so move second move a motion in a second to suspend the rules and Third and finally Sondra would you please call the roll right? Yeah Mars. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes Yes
 An ordinance transferring administration of retirement coverage for the eligible members of the Fayetteville Fire Pension and Relief Fund to the Arkansas Local Police and Fire Retirement System, LOTFE, and authorizing the mayor to enter into an irrevocable agreement with LOTFE and approving an emergency clause. Okay. I had, just to kind of kick things off, I had hoped that we would have an Attorney General's opinion by today. We have not received that.
 that is not going to happen for us so we're back to what we're going to do with the fireman's pension fund i think we'll start it off and we'll start off with paul and then kitsch you can make some comments if you feel that you need to and then we'll open it up to the pensioners fair enough all right okay if everybody will bear with me i will as quickly as possible try to summarize a little bit of the background and where we are right now uh these funds were established
 under separate boards of trustees back in the, they go back as far as the late 40s, early 50s. The funds function very well. They're supported by property taxes, .4 mils currently for each the fire and police pension funds.
 insurance tax premium taxes which for fire that's up part of the insurance premium tax on property insurance and police the premium tax on automobile insurance the police also get certain fees from the state to help the funding of these pension plans these plans function as I said well through the 50s 60s through the 70s and 80s
 And into the 1990s, they were established for a base of 50%, 50% of the salary for the retirees after 20 years of service, and that could in fact be extended depending on how long those particular individuals worked.
 In December 6, 1996, based on a cash flow evaluation by the PRB board, that's the controlling state board of these pension plans, on a cash flow analysis, it was determined that that base could go from 50% to 65%. That was duly approved by the board of trustees and as a...
 as certified that it was possible by the PRB. Then in June 6, 2001, based on another cash flow analysis and a request from the Board of Trustees, that amount was increased from 65% base to a 90% base. Again, that's primarily because of income, especially interest earnings on the cash reserves of the plan.
 November 2003 was a temporary 3% COLA for a three-year period. In 2006,
 the income coming into the plan started to be reduced. The interest earnings weren't coming in at the same level. There was a request in 2007 to increase the benefits again, and that was denied by the PRB based on a cash flow study where it was felt that that could not be sustained by the fund.
 So it's around 2006 and 2007 that the fund began to look like it was backing off or deteriorating a bit. December 2009, PRB, after looking at it after the actuary did the study on that, declared the fund projected insolvent. This means it looked like it was not going to be able to continue on an ongoing basis. Currently, as of 2014, the pension fund...
 has an unfunded liability of about $14 million, which means it's about 24% funded at that point in time. The investment advisors currently that we talk to that are handling our investments, or the investments, excuse me, of the trust fund, when I say ours, the city is not really a party to that.
 has given it about seven more years based on the current earnings and the current interest earnings between bonds and mutual funds here in Fayetteville by the investment advisors is about 3.6% earnings currently. On 2010, TRB came, gave a presentation to the council and the board of trustees
 At that time indicated there was 91% risk of a ruin and indicated that it looked like that fund could be insolvent as early as 2020 or could be up to 2024. At that point in time they recommended to keep the fund solvent that the city could pay in $250,000 for a 30-year period.
 or 325 000 for a 15-year period of course at that point in time we indicated that the city did not have that type of funding available and it was also indicated to us by the city attorney that it was not a city liability was a liability of that trust fund itself therefore at that point in time nothing was done
 Then, currently, in the last few weeks, again, PRB came to us to tell us about the condition of the fund. The thing that has changed is they now indicated to us that this fund could be consolidated with LOPB, because the amortization period has been lengthened from 15 years to 25 years, and it would be consolidated with LOPB funds, which are projected to earn 8% in the future.
 that it could be sent down there at no cost at this point in time. However, that is for just this year. That changes each year based on an actuarial study. So it could be consolidated at this point in time at no cost for the city, but of course that could change at any point in time. Now there are certain variables involved in that.
 And in the actuarial study, which certainly would change that to creating a liability for the city, it would have to be paid to keep that fund at LOPPE. And once it's sent to LOPPE, the city takes on that liability, agrees by contract to pay what's necessary to pay the pensioners. Those variables are, one, what's the property tax increase?
 uh if it increases uh two percent there would be a cost over time if the property taxes increased three percent there wouldn't be a greater cost and if it increased if it increased less than two percent that's property taxes over time that liability would increase so the rate of property tax increase
 increase is very pertinent to this study. I will say over the last five years, the city's taxes increased 1.7%. We look at the last 10 years, it's over 4%. So that again is a variable which would determine the size that that liability might be. The other sensitive variable here would be investment returns.
 If investment returns are 8%, that certainly would either eliminate the possibility of a liability or would decrease it going forward. That's if investment returns are 8%. Again, I said the fund currently here is gaining 3.6%. If it gains 8% with consolidation at LOPB, certainly that would be a much greater interest earnings. Now LOPB has gained a
 roughly 9% as I calculated since its inception. However, that rate has decreased over time. So as the market has gotten softer in the recent future, those 8% returns certainly could come into question again.
 Premium tax turn back we never know what that's going to be that changes from year to year and remember right now It's about two hundred thousand dollars. We're getting so we don't know if we get more or less as more more more Trust funds come on board the other thing that's sensitive is we don't want to talk about is the mortality rates And that's how long are people going to be collecting the pension in the future so those are some of the variables and
 that would relate to the creation of a liability and how large that liability would be. Now, I work with the actuary vet. We talked to him about the sensitivity of the variables, and the most sensitive was property tax. As near as I could determine from figures gotten from the actuary, the city earned 3% and the property,
 the interest rate was 8%, we shouldn't have an issue with a greater liability. If the property tax increases at 2% over time and it's 8% earned, we could pay over time between now and when the last retiree passes on $2 million. If we only earned 5%, that liability could be $4 million over time.
 the property tax increased 1.5%, we could be looking at a $3.6 million liability at 8% earnings, or as much as a $5 million liability at 5% earnings. In other words, what I ascertain from all this, these variables are all over the map. I can't really give you a accurate judgment on what the chances of a liability are, but there is very much a risk
 that the city would take on a liability, and it could be substantial if in fact the city agreed to take that liability and enter into a contract with Lafayette for the administration of this plan. As presented to you, I'll summarize what I see as your five options. One, you could keep the plan here, keep it under the current trustees, subsidize it to a tune of $150,000, $350,000.
 We all know what it's like doing the budget each year. We don't have $350,000 laying around to spend even on a worthwhile issue like this pension fund. We can leave it where it is and do nothing and that's almost certain failure. Almost certainly that fund is going to run out of money if something isn't done. The city council could agree to consolidate it with no revenue stream
 And send it down to Lape number one you could be taking on a large liability You probably would in fact have to fund it some other way at some point in time Probably wouldn't be for five six years, but the city of Fayetteville probably would be incurring a liability at some point in time or a
 It could be sent to the voter to increase the millage. Like I said, right now it's four tenths of a mill. Could request the voters to go up to one mill. That way that would be a revenue stream created, send it on down the lobby with that stream, and therefore guard the city against the liability that's not funded in the future. That's another option. Could again do nothing and pursue legislative options
 such as the authority to decrease the pension funds, look at what other options there are. One of the things that the mayor discussed, of course, is Alderman Long had been diligent in requesting Attorney General's opinion of what in fact is our legal position and what in fact is the
 is the ability of the trustees to reduce those pensions. Now, I've so far talked about what I see, the financial liability and the finances involved. That's my job to as clearly as possible delineate those to you. I'm not a lawyer. Our city attorney has very clearly indicated to all of us that in his opinion, this is not a city liability.
 And in fact, we may have constitutional issues, or the city that is, may have constitutional issues taking on this liability, entering into a contract with Lofty and sending it down to them for administration. That's all I have to say. I've tried to summarize it as best as possible. And Kit, I'll leave it to you if you want to add something to that. Well, Mayor and Council,
 For about a decade, I've been warning the Fire Pension Board that this is a problem that will not go away, and I've been trying to avoid arriving at a place like we are right now, where there is a dire situation and where there are very poor options for the City Council. Unfortunately, even though there was a study done in 1910, I mean 2010, I'm not
 by the actuary about how much would it be possible to save this plan without new revenue. And the actuary for the state, Jody Carrero, who spoke to you before, estimated that if the pension benefits were reduced halfway back to where they started, halfway back to 50% from the 90, that in fact, then the pension fund would probably be able to stabilize and would not go bankrupt.
 This, unfortunately, was never attempted. The Attorney General says that the Pension Board did not have that power. I felt like they did have the power, and as you remember, we even drafted up a statute presented to the legislature to expressly give them that power so there would not be any question about whether they had the power.
 But because of opposition from pensioners down at the state, in fact, that statute failed, even though the statute would only have given them the right, not any requirement to lower pension rates, but only the right if the pension fund had to have the pension rates lowered to be saved. So none of those options have been taken by the pension board, and so we find ourselves where we are right now.
 I've written you too many memos on this. I read one just because I wanted to make sure you would hear it and understand it. My position, I think, is the same as it was when we first started discussing this. I believe that it's a grave situation from a constitutional point of view.
 that it would look to me like there's a court could find that we were be unconstitutionally extending our credit to this pension board. And if so, what we might end up doing is not saving the pension plan, but instead just lining the pockets of a private attorney who would sue us. This is what happened when the board of directors before you all, the board of directors back in the 80s,
 decided to try to give money to the school system. They ended up not getting a penny to the school system, but instead paying a Springdale lawyer $2.7 million for saying, yes, the attorney general was correct when he said you couldn't do it. And that's, I was on the city council when we had to cut the checks to pay for those mistakes made by the board of directors. And as city attorney, I don't want us to make that same mistake again.
 You have a very compelling case from many of these retirees, and that's one reason I'd hoped that a different solution would have been arrived at and made back in 2010 when any cuts would not have had to be as bad as they would have to now in order to stabilize this fund. My advice remains that I do not believe that the City Council should consolidate with LOPFI
 I believe it is questionable that we have actually the constitutional power to do it, and I'm afraid it might expose us to litigation that we could possibly lose. So I can't recommend that. I obviously want to do what's most safe for our taxpayers, and I feel like that would not be the most safe way to go.
 The safest way to go, in a way that certainly can work in the future, is to have the taxpayers raise the millage themselves. Now, in my review of this, I think that can only occur during a general election.
 The statute, like many other state statutes, somewhat inconsistent. In fact, this one is internally inconsistent. It talks about special elections, but then it also says that it must be conducted pursuant to the requirements of Amendment 7, and this would be an initiated act, and Amendment 7 says initiated acts must be at a general election. So I think it would be dangerous to try to put it in a special election.
 So the only safe way to try to ask the taxpayers, I think, to raise the funds would be during a general election. But they could raise the millage up. Right now, less than half of the millage that Amendment 31 says is allowed, which would be one mil for each fund, is actually being paid right now, which is .8 instead of two. So even if the taxpayers were just asked to raise
 To maybe either double the amount to point eight or it may be only raise it by three tenths of a mil each to point seven Then I think we'd be looking at a far different situation situation where I think the plans could stabilize and at that point it might very well be that a Consolidation with lot fee would not actually carry any real true debt because they'd be pay as you go They would have enough money to actually
 to get that to the voters and have the voters tell us whether or not they want to tax themselves to help the pensioners out. I think I have a couple questions. You bet. So just to clarify, Kit, I'm not sure if you're aware of the fact that the
 Even if there's a primary election or if there's a judge's, sometimes the judge's elections are like in May or whatever, we couldn't put this on that. It'd have to be in the November. Well, as I told you, the statute is very unclear, very contradictory because it talks about you can have it at a special election, but then there's the provision that says you have to conduct it as you would for Amendment 7. It's clearly an initiated act to have more millage assessed.
 And therefore, if you read Amendment 7, it says only at a general election. So I would be scared as your city attorney to say, oh, let's do it at a special election and just see if the courts will agree that that's okay. Okay.
 Because if the court disagreed then all of the money collected in those taxes would be illegally taxed Collected and we'd have to pay some attorney the suit It's a whole bunch of money for saving us all this money that we don't have to pay to our pensioners So that makes me very concerned not to take the safest route I know it can be done in a general election It possibly could be done in a special election, but I don't think it's worth the gamble. I
 Well, and let me be clear. I don't want to have another special election. I think we've had enough of those. So I think I don't want to spend the money on a special election. But the other thing is, can the pension board themselves, do they have a mechanism to bring this forward to the people for a vote? Or do they have to recommend it and we have to send it to a vote here? What's the legalities there of the pension board? Well, in reality, Amendment 31 says 20 citizens by petition.
 can bring this to the voters. 20 citizens. So it doesn't have to either be the board or the city council, but it can be 20 citizens. I do think in order to have a reasonable chance of success, it needs the endorsement and recommendation from both the pension boards and the city council if it's going to have much chance to succeed. And of course, we would have to be doing the ballot and that kind of stuff to make sure it's done correctly. But I
 20 citizens is what Amendment 31 says. I understand. Thank you very much. Yes. I have a question for Paul. Paul, when you looked at the returns on loft fee, did you look at their average three-year returns and average five-year returns? I didn't look at three-year returns. We happen to have David Clark here, so he can correct me if I'm wrong, and I listed these from what David sent me. I have the last... Let's see...
 The returns between 2005 and 2015, that's last 10 years' returns, and I had those calculated at 6.6%. David, you can correct me if that's wrong, but that's what I had, 6.6% for the last 10 years.
 Well, I was going to have David speak, and then you all could fire all the questions, unless you want to ask more questions of Paul and Kit. The reason I was asking that question, it looked like you said we'd be probably looking at funding it in five to six years, so the five-year return would be something I'd be interested in seeing. John? Yeah.
 Mr. Mayor, it's with a heavy heart. I've been driving back from Little Rock, so I was late. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize this is an important issue, certainly to you, and I think to all of us. I view my job on the City Council. It has different facets, but one of those is to guard the public purse. I'm looking at a U.S. debt clock right now where we owe $18 trillion.
 I think we got there because men and women in Washington did not have the courage to say no to a lot of good things that came along. Because they didn't have that courage, we're saddling our grandchildren and our children and our great-grandchildren with mountains of debt. I think that is bad policy. I think that is a lack of courage. I have the greatest admiration for fire people, for police people.
 You risk your lives. I've said that from this podium before. But when I look at all of the facts and circumstances surrounding this, I find it difficult to obligate the people of Fayetteville, the citizens who will be paying that tax. I really like the idea of sending it to them to let them decide the issue. If they feel like I feel that it's very important, they will pass that tax upon themselves.
 I would vote to send it to the people, but I cannot vote to assume up to a $9 million liability. It really amounts to a blank check. I asked this question before, would you write a blank check on your own personal account? That is just a bad policy. That's a bad procedure. It's bad business. And that's kind of what we're being asked to do is write that blank check by sitting at the lobby.
 The folks that run Lafayette are no dummies. They're not going to assume all of our liabilities without a big IOU from the city of Fayetteville. And that's what I'm unwilling to do without the people speaking on the issue, is to obligate the people of Fayetteville to pay whatever that liability is. So I would urge my colleagues on the board to let's do what we can to encourage the people of Fayetteville to consider this issue.
 themselves. If the people want to tax themselves, I'm all for it. That's the people deciding. But I feel very uneasy, me as an elected official, as I'm sure many of us do, obligating the people of Fayetteville without their vote. So I would urge us to move in that direction. Mayor. Okay. Thank you, John. David, would you like to address this here tonight? Mm-hmm.
 thank you mayor david clark the director of lopi and prb as far as the investment returns let's grab those numbers for you real quick the cumulative return for the last 32 years we're on the calendar year just like you are was 10.35 percent the last five years was 8.15 the last 10 years was 5.84 and then if you go the last 20 years it was 8.58
 So, if you...
 We can slice it up however we want. The assumed rate is still 8%. The Board of Trustees is going to hear from the actuaries about adjusting that, possibly downward at the December meeting. I don't know how the Board will vote, but that is a possible consideration. That was briefly mentioned at one of the previous meetings. We provided you plenty of numbers. You guys have gone through those multiple times. If there's any questions for me, I'm glad to answer them.
 What questions do we have for Mr. Clark? Okay. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Clark. Who else would like to address this scenario? Mayor and council, my name is Pete Reagan. Thank you very much for being here on a Friday night. I know you're missing out on all the trick-or-treaters, and I apologize for that. But thank you, Mayor, for calling this special meeting. My remarks are on the record from the second reading, so I'll be very brief. City staff and council have expressed concerns about the cost.
 that could be associated with or may be associated with, that, as Paul so eloquently said, that all depends on several variables. And at the point in time when there is a liability to the city, it's not going to be there very long because we're all going to die.
 We don't know when but we're all going to die and that pendulum is going to swing back and the city will actually be making positive money going towards and that money can only be dedicated to go towards the lot fee benefit for current current employees So somewhere in there the pendulum is going to swing it may cost you a little bit here But you're going to make money on the backside. I want everyone to make sure we understand that the second thing is
 that I'd like to bring to your attention and I said it in my earlier remarks, 164 old fire and police pension plans have merged with Lotfi. Not one lawsuit has been filed. It is apparent that the city of Fayetteville ordinance 1136, which I hope you have in your packet, it was provided to me yesterday and thank you for whoever found it. And I'd like to read
 I'll have to get my glasses. You want me to read? I think I know where you're going. Right here. Thank you, yes. Okay. Section 2 of the ordinance says the question of the levy, the ballot title shall appear as follows. And this was passed November 5th of 1957, a unanimous vote of the City Council. The question of the levy of an annual tax of not more than one percent, I'm sorry, one mil.
 on the dollar upon the assessed value of the real and personal property within the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, for the purpose of paying pensions to retired firemen and pensions to widows and minor children of deceased firemen and widows and minor children of deceased retired. The key word is in that ballot title is not more than 1%. It is our opinion. I'm sorry, one mil. Thank you for that.
 My position on that is you as the City Council have the authority by this ordinance to pass or increase the millage if you so desire to do so for the fire pension fund. I think that's all I wanted to read in. Thank you. You're very welcome. Who else would like to address some of this? Thank you.
 My name is Pat Beaudry. I live at 12923 West Highway 62, Farmington, Arkansas. Mayor, City Council, I appreciate this opportunity to speak. I have prepared this statement to read because this hair doesn't give me words
 the memory to do this correctly. Okay. I'm the wife of Federal Fire Department retiree Jack Beaudry, mother of 22-year Federal Fire Department veteran Battalion Chief Travis Beaudry. My brothers-in-law Howard and Bill Beaudry also retired from this department. So as you can tell, the Fire Department service runs deep in the Beaudry family. I have been associated with the Federal Fire Department for nearly 50 years.
 I am also the fire department communicator for both the old guard retirees, the name given to those hired before 1983, and the lock fee retirees of today. I maintain the database of retirees in order to relay needed information to them on a regular basis. I stand before you with information I have gathered to hopefully give everyone a better insight to the old guard's plight.
 I would like to thank Sandra Smith, city clerk, for being very accommodating to my request for this information. The Old Guard is a group of senior citizens with a big problem. We're losing our livelihood. Many are concerned about the plan being raised to 90%.
 For more than half of this plan, 90% brings them less than $2,000 monthly. For three of this group, 90% equates to under $1,000 monthly. Out of the 51 checks that go out monthly, six volunteers out of this 51 draws $150 a month.
 under 150 a month. There are over half of the pension plan age 70 and over. Six of these are in their 80s and three are in their 90s. The number in their 60s is 15 and in their 50s is nine. There are 13 widows in this plan with an average age of 79 years old. 10 additional pensioners have no spouses.
 So nearly half of this pension plan has no beneficiaries. Simply put, 23 checks stops with death. Jody Carrero from the actuary study firm, Osborne Carrero and Associates, and David Clark, Executive Director of Arkansas Fire Police Pension Review Board, known as the PRB. David is also the Executive Director of Arkansas Local Police and Fire Retirement Systems, known as LOCPE.
 presented you with a proposal based on the current actuary study that the city has enough current revenue to last five years with no additional out-of-pocket out-of-pocket monies expected from the city to consolidate our plan with lock fee
 And the current millage collection grows at least 2% per year, which past collections suggest the 2% number is quite reasonable. Then it would be the year 2032 before additional city monies would be needed with the investments performing as anticipated. The Lockfeet fund with an asset balance of well over $1 billion can earn a higher interest rate of performance for our fund when consolidated.
 As you can tell from the ages of these pensioners, the reduction of the payout due to the death rate is looming on the horizon. More than likely, many of them won't need any additional money from you in 2032. However, until we leave this world, we do need the basics of life this pension provides. Social Security is not in the equation because Social Security is not allowed to be withheld from the checks of civil servants.
 I would like to address a question that Councilwoman Sarah Marsh asked at the October 20th meeting. How could there be such a difference in the pension check amounts? Well, here is the how. The year you hired, that starts the clock ticking toward retirement. The number of years served upon retirement, the salary at retirement, and the rank at retirement.
 The following scenario says it best. Marion Doss gave 40 years of his life to the city of Fayetteville. Marion is now 73 years old. Even though he started in 1965 when wages were very, very low, he worked until the wages were much higher, retiring in 2005 with a rank of assistant fire chief. Therefore, yes, he does receive more than the others.
 On the other hand, you have Assistant Fire Chief Lonnie Farrar, retiring in 1976, same rank. He draws under $1,000 monthly. Fire Chief Charlie McWhorter, Fire Chief, not Assistant. Fire Chief Charlie McWhorter retired in 1977, and he draws around $1,300 monthly. There is much more to a firefighter's job than putting water on a fire to save your house or business.
 They deal with flash overs, falling walls, floors, ceilings, roofs, and the fear of falling through all of these. The intense infernal heat smokes so thick you have to feel your way out of the building and icicles on gloves, helmets, and clothing in the winter. They cope with bodies burned beyond recognition that have to be retrieved out of burning buildings. They are bodies they have to gather up off of highways and put in body bags.
 Extrications from wrecked vehicles, all the while listening to the citizens scream to the top of their lungs. Pulling that last victim out of the car, a little blonde, curly-headed girl that is dead. That little girl is the same age as their little girl they left at home this morning.
 Arriving at a motorcycle accident to find an arm, a leg, and a brain lying beside the motorcycle. Too gruesome to listen to, you say? Yet these are the day-to-day sights and sounds a fireman faces in the profession of being a firefighter. Whether it was the old guard performing these duties or the firefighter of today, nothing has changed. Those images never go away, as my husband still speaks of them today.
 Due to the low funding back in the 60s, the old guard was on call 24-7 and necessary equipment for the job was in short supply. They ran the ambulance for the city of Fayetteville, done the majority of mechanic work on the fire trucks, and were even called on to build station number five on 265 so they could save the city money. A mandatory live in the city rule made life very difficult for all of us.
 I took offense last week at the gentleman from Ward 3. I'm sorry I didn't catch his name. He said firefighters only one day sitting around and had two days off. The Federal Fire Department is on a trajectory to eclipse a 10,000 run mark yearly in the very near future. This number of runs from a fast-paced, high-tempo environment could not have been accomplished while all the firefighters are just sitting around.
 Having said all this to simply say these guys have earned their pension. I understand the big picture. I understand your dilemma, which involves our pension as well as the police department's old plan taxes and the citizens that pay those taxes. Current employees concerned about their future and all the legal issues involved.
 However, this is my plea to consider some course of action that will save this plan and consolidate it with HLACP. Thanks for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mr. Mayor, Peter Tonneson from Ward 3. And I'd like to thank you again for allowing me to speak. I do not consider this to be an emergency. As the papers show, they've known about this problem since 2009. Some action was taken in 2010.
 There are funds available, there are two different numbers that I found in the papers for 8 to 10 years or 10 to 15 or at worst case 5. But I don't see that there's any kind of emergency involved here that this should be ran through without the taxpayers having a chance to be heard. I've already said and I'm not going to repeat that I agree completely, I'm an attorney for those who don't already know it.
 I'm not an Arkansas lawyer, but I am an attorney in three states. I agree completely with the analysis of Mr. Williams in his memos of September 29th and October 1st, so I'm not gonna repeat that. I would make the point that today I learned that President Obama is sending 50 special operators to Syria, and as a military guy,
 I want to remind everyone that those 50 operators won't work one day on and two days off, and they won't go home at night until they come back, if they come back, and they'll retire with 50 percent after 20 years. The point I would really like to make today is to look at this agreement. I agree with Mr. Williams also that if the city is inclined to do anything, the most it should do is present.
 a millage increase to the voters in a general election. I think that's correct. But my concern is that the city not be involved at all with LOPV and this administrative services agreement. I said last week it's devious. I'll go through it word by word if you'd like. I prepared a seven page bulleted outline and I can explain exactly why I make that harsh statement. But the high points of it are that this is an irrevocable agreement.
 that you are being called the agent, but you're not. You would be the principal of this agreement. And you in fact would become the guarantor, or I would become the guarantor of this agreement. And it's not a contract. This isn't like where you bought the $3 million headquarters that we might or might not need for the recycling people.
 where you pay $3 million of taxpayer money and you get something in return. This is a gift. This is an act of largesse. There's no consideration here coming back to the taxpayers of the city. So if you do this, it's an act of bounty, not of contract. But the people you're contracting with are the ones most self-interested, and that's LOPFI.
 the boards because you're gonna let be letting the trustees of these boards off the hook for their mismanagement of the funds They're gonna run. So let me just read some of the key phrases Well, first of all, it says the benefit structure shall not change unless a benefit increase is approved by the city of Fayetteville so you're you're locked into what they've already decided and
 This is the administrative services agreement. It said the actuaries for Loppe have computed an initial employer contribution rate to be paid by the city of Fayetteville. And Mr. Becker has explained, and I think his memo made clear, but he's been very clear tonight, that this is a very difficult liability in terms of what its size is. If you had 50 retirees...
 for 50 years making eighty thousand dollars a year you're talking about two hundred million dollars now mr williams in one memo pointed out that there are four retirees who have so far drawn down three million dollars and if you look at the
 amount of time that each has drawn that amount, it comes, let's just rough it out, $750,000 per retiree over an average of nine years. We're talking about $80,000 a year that some people are making. I don't doubt that the lady is correct that there are other people making modest amounts. But this is not a problem that any of you or I or any of the other taxpayers created. This is the pension board that has created this problem.
 The LOPV agreement, though, would say the city of Fayetteville agrees to always remit payment at the level established by the actuaries for LOPV. As Mr. Williams pointed out, they get 1% of the annual...
 They get one half of 1% of the annual payroll and 1% of the average annual fire pension fund assets. However, this fee is subject to change by, quote, legislative action, unquote. Is that city council action? Is that the state legislature? Or is that some board of law fee?
 It says that LOPFI agrees to provide the following services. It will determine eligibility and calculate service credits and benefit amounts. So you're going to be bound by that, or we're going to be bound by that, if you sign this agreement. It says upon execution of the agreement, all fire pension...
 And in the one agreement, it's kind of funny, because fire is always underlined except one place. Because that's because if you agree to this, they're just going to do a word replace, and it'll show up with police substituted for fire. I mean, that's why fire is underlined and nothing else is. But anyway, it says, upon execution of the agreement, all fire...
 pension fund assets and records shall be transferred to LOPI. Well, let me tell you what I'm going to do if I'm the lawyer for LOPI. The day we get those records, they're all going down to Shred It. They'll be there before your papers get to Shred It, and they're all going to be shredded. And all they're going to keep is a determination made by the pension board, and that's going to be binding on the taxpayers of this city. And then it says...
 All applicable contributions shall be remitted in time to be recorded by the tenth day. Remittance shall be made in the manner and amounts prescribed by LOPPE, which shall include the use of LOPPE's electronic recording and LOPPE's e-payment. So if you need software, you're going to have to buy that. The City of Fayetteville shall execute all documents required by LOPPE to aid in the administrative process.
 It says all active members and beneficiaries of the fire pension fund have been determined eligible. And it says the fire pension fund in the city of Fayetteville indemnify and hold LOPB harmless for any eligibility decisions. I mean, this is basically a complete assumption of financial responsibility of an undetermined amount in which the city is left with no power. So I'm almost done. If you're going to...
 Allow the taxpayers to consider a millage increase I would suggest that that money be paid to these boards don't get in bed with Lopi Certainly not under this agreement Pay them the money to those boards and let them sort it out under the state statute if this if the taxpayers vote for it, but don't sign this agreement and
 And don't be a party to this, please, because it could be a financial disaster that's... I mean, look at... In the Republican debate the other night, it comes out. I mean, Connecticut, New Jersey, those are states. Detroit, I passed through Detroit a lot. That city just went through bankruptcy because of excessive government pensions. Don't get boxed in. If you're going to make a gift, do it in a way that protects the people of the city.
 Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring you back to the council. Okie dokie. Yes, Alan. I have a question. So I know that the board actually recommended to us that we consolidate with Lotfi. Can we take an action to not consolidate Lotfi without a board recommendation? Is that even something that is possible?
 I think actually the proper procedure is to have the board ask us to do that. And I think it takes two to tango in this particular case. Maybe David Clark can help on this. But they not only asked us to consolidate but appointed us as their representative to do the necessary procedures to do that. So I'd ask David Clark, does it actually require the board to make that request to the city council before consolidation could happen?
 That was the purpose of the resolution that they, I believe, passed. Right. They did pass the resolution. I guess the question is, is that absolutely necessary or? Yes. In other words, both the board and the City Council would have to agree. Is that right? Correct. That is correct. Yes. That answers his question. Thank you. I guess I want to follow up. Since the original City Council resolution that was read to us earlier authorized us to go up to one mill for our millage to fund our own fund, could we not?
 with our own action, increase our millage up to that percentage that was passed years ago? That was an ordinance calling for an election. We have yet to be able to find any ballot back in 1957 that might say what the actual ballot language was and what it had passed, was it changed. We've looked and asked the county who supposedly keep all of these ballots.
 and they are looking, but we, Sandra found this and we first heard about it, or the Mayor and I first heard about it about 3.30 yesterday afternoon. And since then, Mayor has looked through newspapers and we've looked at, and Walker County and Sandra's been looking, I'll let Sandra, you go ahead and talk. I've looked through your records for 11 years and talked to the county archives, the Mayor's talked to the county, they cannot find the ballot language.
 So by what authority are we collecting the .4 mils that we are collecting now? Well, we know it went to a vote of the people because the mayor found a newspaper article saying that it went to a vote of the people, but we cannot find the actual ballot language. So we're still searching. Let the mayor. What did you find when you searched the . . . Okay. I've been researching this. Ellen brought this up yesterday at the pension board, and I thought that was actually a good point, so I decided to research it. Ellen, you were correct.
 I'll start in 48 because when you look at the old tax records, we levy just like we levy .4, .4, and millage for the library. We approve that every year before the end of October, right? So what I did, we did the research. Sondra brought the research, and we looked at the taxes. In 1948, there is no record of any kind of pension fund for the police or the fire. But in 49, there is now.
 a pension fund of 0.5 mil for the police and police only and it stayed like that until this election in 1957 and in 57 the people voted to to give and and this starts where it starts getting vague i assume the council to the authority to go up to a mill but i don't know that because i they
 I can't find the ballot on either one of these pensions. The 48 one, between 48 and 49, they have not been able to find the ballot on that one, and they've not been able to find the ballot on the one in 57, unless you all have found it or come up with it. I don't have it, and I went through the county archives, so I decided to go down to the library and research newspapers. So let's see if I can read this.
 It basically says I can find here that would the people passed an initiative for the fire department 57 I do have a record of that and it says the proposal to set aside up up to one meal of the city tax for the fireman's pension. 1,199 to 346. I do have that record. I do not.
 But and then we have ordinance 1136 that was passed in May of 1957 and the ballot title said it should appear the question of the we read that. But it basically said that's what the title said. But we know that even though a council passes, as we have seen from experiences recently, a certain title ballot language, it can be changed by judge.
 It can be changed, I guess, by election commission, I assume. So it can be changed. So we don't actually know exactly what that ballot reads. Now, I know that sounds a little vague, but that's as good as I could do because I can't find anything. Well, if there was a lawsuit and the ballot language was changed, would that not have come up in the research, I'm guessing? No.
 Allen that would be a legal question. I don't know. I'm not an attorney It'd be much more likely that you'd actually be able to find a ballot then then some suit Necessarily, there's not necessarily a suit there, but hopefully still the county will be able to find a ballot. Yes, they would hold on But do all the ballots now I if you read amendment 31 Which is very short
 It says, after consent of the majority of those voting on the question at any general or special election. So it's the statute that makes it confusing about special elections. In cities of the first or second class, the cities may annually thereafter levy a tax on the assessed value of real and personal property not to exceed two mils on the dollar from which there shall be created a fund to pay the retirement salaries and pensions to policemen and firemen and widows. And the annual levy...
 shall not exceed one million dollar for police, one million dollar for fire. So that's what amendments, that's the authorizing constitutional provision that allowed this to be submitted to the voters. You would think that
 I think if I had been a city attorney at that point in time, I would have probably said what the actual millage should be instead of an up to amount. Maybe at that point in time it was believed that, well, the city council could determine what it was every time and so that's why we've done. And even if that's what the ballot says, I still have concerns because there is a case, Michael Wright versus Story.
 where the Hot Springs Board of Directors, after a millage rollback for their pension plans to .4, decided without another vote to raise it to one mill because evidently maybe they were having pension problems. And they were sued by a county resident, and the Supreme Court said, you can't do that. Now, the court argued among themselves it was a split decision, a somewhat confusing decision,
 But the fundamental happening was, is that that attempt by that city council, that board of directors to raise a millage after Amendment 59 had rolled it back was not allowed by the Supreme Court. So I would be very reluctant to have you all, especially when we don't even have a ballot, to attempt to, without a vote of the citizens, attempt to raise millage. Every time you deal with taxes, it's minefield.
 The sales tax suit was because it was a sales tax and therefore you got millions of dollars and that's why we had litigation. So my recommendation still would be it would be much safer to submit it to the voters. Then we don't have that problem that Hot Springs ran into, regardless of what any other ballot
 I'm just pointing out the fact that in 48 the police pension fund was not on them they list their males and what it was for wasn't there but in 49 it was so there had to be it would have to go to a vote of the people so there had to be some sort of vote but there's no I can't find the ballot yeah anyway I don't think I
 We started yesterday afternoon trying to find when it was voted on, what the ballot said. I can't figure out how it was decided upon point five. I don't know when that was done or how it was done. I don't know if it was a council decision. I just know that an election occurred in 48, which they don't have. I can't find any record of a ballot, so I don't know how the point five was determined then. And in 57...
 It says what it says, that it could be up to a mil, and someone decided to put it at .5, and that much I can tell you, but that's all I got, other than that's all the research that I've had time to do since yesterday afternoon. Yes? So then it was moved to .4, correct? It was moved to 4.8. Okay.
 Then it was moved back in 2001 kit when they did the 20% yes, the Boards the pension boards as well as the school and County were all sued under the amendment 59 lawsuit because the property Taxes had actually been going up very quickly and that's so sometimes they can rise quickly in that time they rose so quickly that amendment 59 required a rollback and so both the pension plans and
 suffered a very serious rollback i mean that's a 20 reduction going from 0.5 to 0.4 and that's where it's been ever since yeah sorry i have another question for paul paul if we were to wait until the april enrollment date on this for the lofty plan to find out some more information and possibly send it back to the um the board to see if they would consider letting the fayetteville voters fund their own
 Pension plan without going through an external plan like lot B Where would we be in terms of solvency compared to where we are now with the pension plan? Well obviously we're not going to have again. It depends on what the Depends on what the market does and what the interest earnings are We're not going to earn as much interest between now and then if the plan stays where it is in relation if it went to lot B, but it is a
 If the investments go down, we wouldn't lose as much either. I would say relatively we would be in the same type of position at that point in time the decision could be made. Basically, we could wait until April, be in the exact same situation, but we could have an attorney general's decision or opinion by then to put us on more solid legal footing. Hopefully have a ballot to look at and see what it said too.
 now there is one thing that would involve that i would suggest or recommend or offer if we were going to do that the uh... old fire pension fund did in fact pay for an actuarial study and we would have to have another study done i would propose that if in fact the council chooses to do this that we offer to fund that study i was very very adamant that the
 The city should not pay for the study that was originally done because that was fire pension responsibility. However, if we're going to delay this decision and have another study, and they're not expensive, I think it was $1,500 in that range, I think we should certainly in good faith offer to pay for that study, for the actuarial study to see where it is at that point in time. But I think relatively investment-wise, we wouldn't be that much.
 Worse off who knows what could happen in six months in the stock market we could have their study read on and Examine it at that point in time. I don't think there'd be a significant change And in fact we wouldn't be any worse off than if you consolidate it now because they're going to do an actuary study Anyway, and tell us what we have to pay in 2017 so Whatever it would be
 Once it would be consolidated with lot fee, they're going to do regular studies to determine how much we need to pay. I believe, David, you said that lot fee was considering, by the end of this year, decreasing the percentage? Yes, the assumed rate of return. Correct. We could have more information on that as well? That would be picked up in the next evaluation. That's correct.
 $1500 if we had to even pay that much would be a small price to pay to make a better decision based on more information. Well, a new study would be required, David, as I understand it. That is correct, yes. But I have, I found quite a bit more information which, you know, I was somewhat, a little bit encouraged because I felt like for so many years we were just kind of hitting a stone wall.
 You know, I'm beginning, you know, as I begin to dig back through the history and the archives and things that there could be, you know, and it is postponed to the spring, I also want to include the police pension plan in there and I want a complete package to take if it does go to a voted people. But I will leave that determination up to you all. Can I make a comment? Yes, oh yeah, sure. Well, I want to thank Alderman Long because I think after thinking about this for what seems like years,
 I think that's the best way to go. You brought up the police, which is what I was going to bring up, so thank you for bringing that up. I mean, if we open this can of worms tonight on the firemen, then here come the police right after that saying, well, you did it for them, you have to do it for us. And then I have to sit up here in an even worse position and say, but those guys fight fires you just get shot at. And that's not being funny, that's serious. And I can't do that.
 But I wouldn't have a problem with taking both of those ideas to the people. I'd probably even campaign for it. I mean, you know, on their behalf. But to make this decision tonight when we're not, if we were losing a lot in six months, that would be different. But your answer, I know there's no guarantee, but...
 But if things stay relatively where they are, then we shouldn't be in a much worse position than we are now. Other than maybe paying for the study. Yes. Which I think is, in time, a good investment if we needed to do that. So I'm not going to say anything else because I think that's the best idea. So I'm in favor of that. Thank you. What we're discussing this evening in this special meeting of the city council...
 is whether to go into an agreement with LOPFI. There's been a lot of emotion attached to this. We've asked for more information, we've found a lot more information. As I said Tuesday, we needed more information and we still need more information that we don't have. We can make assumptions and we can guess, but at this point in time, it would be premature to enter into an agreement that I see is less than desirable.
 But that doesn't mean that we're abandoning our responsibility to look out for the retirement and the retired firefighters and police as we move forward. So based on the information that we have in front of us today, it would be very hard for me to support moving forward
 with an agreement that when it's analyzed, places all the authority on an outside organization, but yet all the risk and the payment on the taxpayers of our city. So as a responsible act to the taxpayers, I think we have to look at the agreement and the risk and then also get a true clarification of issues that are still unresolved.
 So, like I say, what we're looking at tonight, and if you read what is in front of us, it's simply are we going to move forward with an agreement with Lafayette this time? And I don't think that we have the capacity to make a sound decision, and just based on the issues and the facts that are before us, it doesn't seem like a good decision to me.
 I'm sorry, Matthew. A quick question before I make my comment. To remind me, what's the current rate of return on the pension fund, Dale? Here at the current fund? I asked yesterday. It was 3.69. Okay, thanks. Well, first let me say I was really appreciative that we had another week to think about this because I didn't really feel confident at all in making a decision until even this afternoon.
 you know i i want to start by saying i really believe that eventually this fund has to be consolidated it just has to i mean right now it earns 3.69 percent we're in good good times in the recession lot p was earning more than five percent i mean it is such a better investment to be in lot b than it is for us to manage this small fund on our own i think eventually we've got to consolidate them i also think that people are probably going to have to raise their taxes
 You know, I think, you know, if it was an acceptable level of risk to all of us, we could say, okay, well, we're just going to consolidate and wait for what happens. 164 other cities have done it. So in theory, we should be in legal in the clear. But then I started thinking, and this is what solidified my decision on this, on consolidating today, I'm going to vote against consolidating today, is when the next recession hits and
 All of a sudden, we have liabilities with Lot-Fee, and so does every other investor in the community has their own liabilities coming due. We don't know who's going to sue who, and these 164 other cities haven't been put through that scenario yet. It's easy to say 164 other cities haven't been sued yet when times have been relatively good, but when the city is the guarantor and times go bad...
 That's when the very hard conversations end up in front of a courtroom. So I do think that we're going to have to consolidate eventually. I just don't see any way around it. It's the healthiest option. But I also see that we need to plan for those liabilities in advance, and that means that people are probably going to have to raise taxes before we do it. And I'll campaign for that. And the reason is...
 In 2005, I made a decision not to join a search and rescue team for all of the gruesome reasons that we were told tonight. And I think that the current pension levels are on balance for the vast majority of the pensioners, more than reasonable. I think we do have a moral obligation to keep the pensions funded. But because we're in this somewhat legal fog...
 I can't ignore our city attorney's advice of what might happen if we were to hit a big iceberg like the next recession. And so I think we need to take what time we need to be diligent and protect ourselves from that, even as, in my view, we have to plan for the eventual consolidation. Okay. Anybody else? All right. Yes, Al.
 So I'd like to make a motion to table this till April 5th of 2016. We got to vote up consolidation I think. You don't have to vote it up and down, but I would, you know, it's going to be a whole new ball game in April. There'll have to be a new actuary study and everything else.
 But if we table it in December 31st, then it would go away. No, that's true. Then it would go away. Then you'd have to come back then with a new proposal. Yeah, you could table it. So if you had an indefinite tabling, then it would go away on December 31st, but that doesn't mean it would not be able to come back. I think really that's probably a cleaner way to do it. That'll work. But you can, it's up to you. I guess you could just amend everything.
 in April if you want to do that rather than just letting this one die and starting over again. I think to show our commitment that we want to revisit it, I'd like to set a date of tabling until April? April 5th, 2016th date and it'll still be on the second reading at that time. Hang on. No, this is our, our, our, our packet says second reading, sorry. Hang on just a second. Ellen, didn't you say that there was something happening in April with the police
 What is, there was some reason somebody brought it up on one of the pension boards about April and I can't remember what it was. Okay, I'm sorry. All right. All right. That's fine. That's my motion. Okay. Second. Okay. Table to April 1. Uh, 5th I believe it was. Yes, 5th. Well, let me ask you a question. If we get something put together sooner than that, is that okay too?
 Any alderman could bring it off the table. Okay, very good. Before you vote, let me ask the objective director about whether or not it's a good idea to just table this as it is right here all the way to next year and try to substitute for it. Is that what you want to do? Is that your preference?
 Those procedures, that really doesn't involve us. The only thing I think that you guys are all aware of, what does involve us is just replacing the current actuarial valuation with an updated version, and that's the process that can't start until April 1 of this next year. But as far as procedurally how you handled this, I really can't weigh in on that. So if they start at April 1, when would we be able to see the results? Roughly six weeks later.
 The evaluations take about six weeks to process. So probably you shouldn't revisit this at least until we can have the actuarial studies completed. So May 17th? Okay. Sounds good. We knew that.
 That would be six weeks after. That would be six weeks from now. Sarah? Yeah. Well, I understand that the motivation behind tabling as opposed to letting it die. I would rather just let this motion die and then start fresh with fresh information. And I just feel like it's already a confusing enough issue and I'd like to have a clean slate to start with. Mayor? Yes, John. I agree again with Sarah Marsh.
 Congratulations. I think the people that have come and spent their Friday evening with us deserve an up-and-down vote, not just kicking the can down the road and keeping it going and keeping it going. So I'd like to see us just vote yes or no on the motion to consolidate with Lopkin tonight. And this is the courage I was talking about earlier. We need to be courageous, and we need to say this is what we believe, this is the action we're taking,
 But again, I hope from the discussion tonight, all of you retirees and widows and wives and families understand we're not abandoning you. We appreciate you. It's just we're in a difficult position. We're all wrestling with this, if you can't tell by the hesitation in our voices and what we're doing. But I think this is best for you. It's just an up-and-down vote, and you know where you are. You know where we are.
 Let's work together to come to some resolution that is Palatable to the citizens of Fayetteville and to you the recipients of those pensions And I'll just say one other reason that I think that it would be a better idea to table it like it is is
 is that we would have this information in our packet with the updated information. It would all be together and we could see the change in the return rates. Everything would be together. Just to me it would seem more organized as an agenda item. That's just what I think. I'm not necessarily married to either one of the ideas, but I'm still going to keep my second just because I think if I was a pension, if I was a part of this,
 it's almost the sense of if we vote it up or down then it's gone and if we table it then it's it's still um in its entirety we just have to update it with information so if we get out voted we get out voted but i'm still going to vote to table rather than just let it die just because i think it sends a better message but either way yeah
 Well, Alderman Tennant, I think as long as one of those pensioners is alive, it will not go away. It's not going to die. So that wouldn't be a big concern of mine, and I think all of us are concerned about it, and I think we're all committed to the firemen and their families. So I don't think any of us are going to let it die. I think we can all agree we want to try and take care of the firemen. All right. However we do this.
 the motion to approve the motion. Okay. So we have motion and second on the table to May 17th, 2000. Yes. Would you call please call the roll. Right. Mar show. No. No. No. Yes. It fails.
 orders yes all right any other final comments okay sondra would you please call the row gray no marsh no kenyan no petty no tenant no shop martin no long no okay all right i will get with the pension boards in the next little bit and we'll bring something back
 whenever we get something back, which will be pretty quick. All right. Thank you all very much for your time. We're adjourned.