I'd like to call to order the city council meeting for November the 7th, 2023. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Whittaker? Here. Berna? Here. Bunch? Here. Turk? Turk. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? Thank you.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I'm always here. All right. All right. We had a financial report from Paul Beckham.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for sales tax received during the month of August, but it's for the September financial statements of the city. So we've got three months left this year. As we talked about a little bit at the agenda session, sales tax was down a bit compared to last year. That's the first time it was down for us this year.
 this year, was down 2.5% for the City One penny and down 2.27% for the amounts that we get remitted back from the county for sales tax. So all in all, it was down about 2.4% for the month of August.
 I wasn't able to ascertain exactly where that came from and exactly what that was due for. We seem to be spread quite a bit through the various categories. I do know, however, that alcohol beverage taxes and some of the collections for hotels, motels and restaurants were down just a little bit. We're softer than normal.
 However, I'm not overly concerned at this point in time. Sales tax at this point in time is up 6.6% on a year-to-date basis. We've got three months to go to the end of the year. If we remember when I talked about...
 bringing forward the salary increases this year in April. I said if just sales tax would have to cover that, we would need about 9.3% when we measure where we are now to that number. We're under about $820,000 in sales tax, but I'm not concerned about that because we've got other categories that are up. Franchise fees are up.
 about 5% on a year-to-date basis. Alcohol beverage taxes.
 up almost 14% so far compared to last year. Building permits through August were only up about 12%, but they've increased since that point in time. But through that period of time, that's what they were up. Charges for services, such as services provided for parks and things of that nature, they were essentially flat compared to budget. Cork fees were up a little bit.
 interest on earnings were up substantially and that's because we're seeing quite a bit of interest increases on our investments at this point in time. Now hopefully we all are when we look at the at the interest rates that banks and government securities are offering at this point in time. So the grand total is for the
 general fund in total. We're up roughly 6% for this point in time and so we should cover these, we should cover the revenue, should be able to cover the increased expenditures that we made for the for the salaries by the end of the year.
 So we're doing well in the general fund. I expect that to continue. We may not be as strong as we were at the beginning of the year, but I expect us to finish the year on a positive note. The street fund essentially was flat.
 The motor fuel taxes and the sales tax, the half cent sales tax, they're now combining it as a single turn back from the state. 2S was up about 2% during the period, but severance taxes were down. So essentially the revenue was flat in the street fund. But...
 but that's still good for this point uh in time uh the parking fund the parking fund actually is down nine percent the uh actually downtown area was up and the entertainment district was down a bit however we're still showing positive results for the parking fund when we compare that with the expenditures at this point in time so i'm not concerned about that either
 HMR taxes were actually down a half a percent. So that kind of correlates back to the sales taxes being down a bit. Normally, we're used to the HMR taxes being up month to month. But this time, they were down just a half a percent, but a little bit soft for the period. However, we're still up 9% on a year-to-date basis.
 Water and sewer revenue was essentially flat compared to what our budget was. So that's pretty stable at this point in time. Trash and recycling, recycling and trash collection, that fund was down roughly 3% on a yearly basis. Again, remember we had that transfer station, it was down for several months early in the
 The airport fuel sales are down compared to last year. Actually, fuel sales are down 28% compared to last year.
 However, we're still showing positive results from the sales when we compared our markup just isn't quite the same. So I'm not concerned about the airport. It's holding its own at this point in time. So that's the extent of my report and this report for September again. So it's the end of the third quarter. We've got one quarter left. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have all on finances?
 Thank you. Okay, let's move on to the consent agenda. Number one approval of the October 17 2023 City Council meeting minutes. Number two resolution to approve an agreement with Tyler Technologies Incorporated for new billing and payment system and payment processing merchants account.
 A resolution to approve a contract with Steel Will Consulting any amount of $188,900 for the creation of an arts and culture plan for the City of Fayetteville and to approve a project contingency any amount of $7,600. Number 4, resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Krafton, Toll & Associates, Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 23-01, Selection Number 6,
 and an amount not to exceed $204,275 for design services associated with the Drake Street Trail connection and to approve project contingency, any amount $25,000. Number five, a resolution to approve the purchase of technology, products, solutions, and related services from CDWG on an as needed basis pursuant to an Omnia partners cooperative contract through April 30th,
 2026 in any future renewal periods number six a resolution to approve an agreement with lr south llc for the holding and disposal of solid waste and restockable materials in city of fed number seven a resolution to approve an agreement with hamilton alliance incorporated for the hauling and disposal of solid waste and restockable material in city of fed
 Number eight, a resolution to approve an agreement with Outbound Waste LLC for the hauling and disposal of solid waste and recyclables in the city of Petty. Number nine, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $344,960 to fund the repair of an eight-inch sewer main.
 in the clever creek area number 10 a resolution to approve contract for sanitary sewer service between the cities of farmington and federal in which federal will accept and treat sewage from farmington and federal's wastewater treatment facility through december 31st 2032 number 11 a resolution to authorize construction manager at risk contract with
 warning companies incorporated pursuant to rfq 23-05 for the west transmission water main project and the initial amount of 690 329 dollars into approved budget adjustment number 12 resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of eighty thousand thirty nine dollars to fund the misty simpson water damage claim at 2425 east sharon street number 13
 A resolution to approve the purchase of utility locating services for 2023 from Arkansas One Call System Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $45,000. Number 14, a resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $20,000 to cover the repair and replacement costs for two units used by the Petro Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number 15, a resolution to authorize acceptance of the 2023 Selective.
 traffic enforcement project grant award any amount of $72,700 in approved budget just number 16 a resolution authorized acceptance of a matching grant award from the 2023 bulletproof vest partnership program in the amount of eleven thousand nine hundred ninety dollars for the replacement of body armor vests and outfitting new officers and to approve budget just number 17 a
 A resolution to authorize acceptance of a non-matching grant award in the amount of $200,000 for the expansion of the police department's wellness and resiliency program funded through 2023 Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act and to approve budget adjustments.
 and number 18 resolution to amend resolution 230-23 and to authorize the city attorney to seek condemnation and possession of certain lands owned by party investments LLC needed for the highway 71b corridor project I will entertain a motion except its in Jim this room like a motion to accept it as read second motion to second to accept the consent agenda which please call the road Hertzberg yes Jones yes
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Let's go to unfinished business.
 Number one resolution authorized the mayor to sign a real estate purchase contract with Lindale properties incorporated for sale Approximately point five acres of city property in the south end of the civic plaza for the amount of one million two hundred and forty seven thousand four hundred fifty five dollars Wait, thank you mayor council. I
 So at the last council meeting, this item was tabled. This allowed time for staff, Mr. Rindell and Ms. Bronson to incorporate into the contract input received from council members and the city attorney. It also allowed time for additional public presentations to various downtown groups. The final version of the contract is before you tonight and includes these changes. Revised survival language.
 The state's all representations, agreements, etc. shall survive closing and remain effective and forcible by parties and successors until both parties jointly agree to modify. There's revised parking language. It identifies the minimum number of spaces of not less than 54. It specifies the design of the lot will be per the city's conditional use permit approval process.
 There's new language that state the current valet lot is the best option. However, if the superior lot becomes available, then the buyer may fulfill the requirements with that superior lot. Valet parking can also be used for the restaurant, bar or event guest if available. And there's also deed restrictions that place these same requirements with any further transfer of ownership.
 Also added was restriction on the number of rooms from 1-2, 115 to 120. This was added to the paragraph that stipulates that the building will be in substantial compliance with all the exhibits. There was also a request to review the protection clauses for the city that were already in the contract. Rheindel must have a billing permit within 12 months of substantial completion of the plaza. Now that's projected of August of 2024.
 He must begin construction within 60 days of the issuance of the billing permit, and he must complete the project within 24 months after the billing permit. If these conditions are not met, the city can purchase back the property at the sales price, plus any improvements that may have been made, and those improvements would have to be appraised and agreed to. So we feel that we've provided what council has asked.
 and we believe we are ready. The new contract or your consideration is now before you for approval. Mr. Ryandell, Vicki Bronson, and myself are available for any new questions or clarifications you may need. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. I won't need 10 minutes, just a couple minutes, but
 Basically, I just wanted to thank you guys for this whole process, for all the questions. I also just wanted to say I got an email late today talking about how the lofts next door is concerned about trucks and travel through their parking lot. And I just wanted to come before you and say unequivocally that we will not be driving 18-wheelers through their parking lot. We will not be using that technology.
 drive lane for valet parking. Neither one of those really makes sense anyway. It's not better, it's not safer, it's not faster.
 I just wanted to say that on the record that that was a concern that some people had and we will not be doing that. We're going to be going through the PZD process. We're going to be working with civil engineer. We're going to figure out how to make that work. And there was a previous drawing that was from a year ago that was irrelevant now. So I just wanted to say that on the record. And I just look forward to a favorable vote.
 Okay, thank you. What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? Tracy. Thank you mayor. I don't know who this is for if this is for Wade or Mr. Rendell, but I'd like to figure out about the idea about a superior parking lot and who defines that and how that's reviewed because that seems a little nebulous what defines a superior parking lot and
 So that was contract language that Vicki drafted and Mr. Rindell agreed to. It was inserted for a chance to not tie up the current lot indefinitely forever, so that's the language to loosen that use of that lot in the future.
 So is there any review by the city on that? I mean, for example, I'm just throwing this out here, but, you know, a superior lot with that kind of language could be construed as something that was originally proposed, the city lot, which is substantially further away. But that would seem to be acceptable under this kind of vague language.
 Yeah, I would think that if and when a superior lock came available, that both parties would get together and discuss it and agree to it.
 Do you have something? Yeah, I think that every contract is interpreted with a reasonable interpretation of particular words and stuff. And if the lot is superior, if the city council clearly felt like it was not superior, then I don't think that they'd be able to do it. So we're really talking about a lot that certainly have as many parking spaces and is basically as close as this one is. So that would be some of the reasonable tests that...
 that both mr rendell and the city would look at to see whether or not that's superior and probably come to an agreement before anything has actually changed to that so i think that even though that's not clearly defined here i think it's pretty well understood that it's better it's superior than what they have right now that doesn't mean it's a city lot but that would probably not be superior
 So, Kit, if I understand you, if there is a new provision, a lot that becomes available and Mr. Rendell decides that that's superior, that he would bring that before city staff and that would be worked out or it would come before city council eventually, how would that process work exactly? It would be, I think we'd be looking really kind of pretty much at an objective test rather than necessarily having to bring it back into political process.
 So I think staff could probably approve it and say, yes, we see that lot has more places for it, more parking spaces that is closer or at least as close as the current one. So I think staff can look at that in an objective manner and be able to say, yes, that is superior. If there's any questions, then they could bring it to the city council.
 One final question. This would be kind of at the Planning Commission administrative level. I mean, my question is how would the public know? Because I can see getting a lot of questions and calls and that sort of thing. So I'm learning about the transparency of something. And hopefully it would be very, very clear that this is by far a superior lot if that came before us. I believe it would probably have to go to the Planning Commission because they'd need a new conditional use for that because it'd be another lot that's not.
 adjoined this one, so it's a distance lot. And so they first have to get this one approved by the planning commission. If they come back later and say, here's a better lot, that still has to go to the planning commission. The way I understand it, is that the way you understand it, Jonathan? That's correct. It would go as a conditional use permit. Thank you very much. I appreciate understanding that process. What else we got? Okay. All right. I believe, Kit, you had some amendments.
 Well, we can either do it now. I guess what I would suggest is that you all have been provided the final version of this contract
 Which was changed according to what Wade has said with the parking and the survival clause. And Kit, may I say, it's the same contract that was distributed to you all, soft copy, on Friday. It's just I put the printed copy. There's no change in what you've read over the weekend. So it's already been provided to the city council and those were the major changes that were explained to you. And so at this point, I...
 I do think it probably ought to amend this, the current exhibit to this, the final version of the contract. Right. I move we amend to the final version. Thank you. Okay, and it would be three things. The survival clause and the number of rooms, basically in the valet parking plan. Is that correct? All right. We have a motion and a second. What discussion would you all like to have on this? Okay. Yes, sir.
 First, I want to say thank you for all the collaboration and all the time that this has
 I feel like there were many individuals that entered into this conversation in good faith and there was a lot of effort and energy to come to agreements together. I am going to be supportive of approving this amendment, but I just wanted to go on record and make sure that since we had the conversation about the Superior lot, I wanted to say that
 I'm very thankful and pleased that we're not tying this lot that's currently zoned MSC in a prime area of downtown indefinitely to parking. I appreciate this is not the highest best use.
 of this piece of property. And I also echo some concerns about the language of superior because I do think that the interpretation there, you know, could raise some concerns. But my hope is more that it is lending us more flexibility in the future because I don't know that we really want to pave all of downtown for parking lots. I think there's a song about that. And it definitely isn't, again, the best use of our taxpayer funds because that doesn't generate, you know, revenue to
 take care of the city long term. The other thing I just wanted to go on record was on W and I appreciate that my comments were taken into consideration when I raised this in regard to a really eloquent letter that came from the Arts Council on October 31st of last year where they raised some concerns about there being additional explicit language on the contract that really spoke to more specifics about the way in which art could be potentially displayed. So I
 I'm going to do progress over perfect tonight, but I still think that that's a huge opportunity and I'm going to again, agree on the amendment in good faith because I've heard that there are efforts that are going to be made between the city and others that we're going to really dig into that. But I think there's a huge opportunity
 to make sure that we really elevate that in the best way possible, and especially that we create that exposure. We have 20% of our population in poverty, and I really wanna make sure that they feel coming from the Civic Plaza that they are welcome, they don't have to be monetized to buy ice cream or coffee to enjoy the arts. So thank you for hearing that. Okay. Anything else on the amendments? Okay, we've got a motion and a second. Jackson, please call the roll. Hertzberg. Yes. Jones.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Ferna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. OK, now we're at the amended resolution. Is there any discussion before we? Well, the resolution was not amended. It was just the exhibit to the resolution.
 And so you're now at the resolution for public comment, I think. Right. And I was asking if the council wanted to discuss anything before I opened up for public comment.
 All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this that's in the chamber? Okay, Susan, do you have any value on Zoom?
 No one has their hand raised me. Okay, I will bring it back to the council So what discussion with the council like to have or what action with the council? I step I may be approved the resolution Second, please your hands Yeah, I would just like to say that I Think this is a perfect example of what we as city council members are supposed to do three weeks ago
 This was brought before us and it had a lot of questions, a lot of questions in the community, questions before us, questions by our city attorney. And I think this is a perfect example of what stepping back from the situation, looking at it, getting all parties involved. I applaud Mr. Rendell for his transparency. He answered every question I had.
 We got them to to speak to members of the community. Walton Arts Center, Downtown Merchants Association, Experience Fable and got everybody on the same page. And I think that as city council members is what we're supposed to do. So I will I am pleased to say that I will strongly support this tonight. OK. Anybody else?
 Mr. Mayor, I would simply add that when the horse is dead, it's time to dismount. I've always been told that. I have asked every question that was asked of me and that I could conceivably come up with, trying in good faith, but I do believe.
 that sufficient good faith has been sown by this development team, that they deserve our support. And I'm pleased that we're able to move forward with this. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay. I just want to say a couple things. First, I want to thank the staff and Mr. Rendell. It's been a long journey, a couple of years' worth. But one of the things I wanted to do, this is going to blend in well with the arts corridor.
 And what I wanted to do, and I've told this story before, but I wanted every child to be exposed to the arts at an early age. And I think this will fit in with what we're trying to do down there because I think people are going to come from everywhere to stay in that hotel. And I know that Devin had talked about net for the city is about $420,000 in sales tax revenue, which will help us with our budgets and stuff. And, yeah.
 I just, you know, I'm real supportive of this hotel and I think this is gonna be a real visionary future event. This hotel is about to occur in this downtown area. We're gonna be competitive with anybody in this region. And I think that's really important that we are. So thank you all and I appreciate your vote here tonight. So Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Moore. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Verna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Dirk. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. On we go. All right. Number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 2023-025 for approximately .22 acres located at 524 South Willow Avenue in Ward 1 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to DG Downtown General. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. Motion second to go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes.
 Jones yes for yes we occur yes burner yes bunch yes sir yes and orders to rezone that property described and rezoning petition RZN 2023 that's 25 or approximately 0.22 acres located at 524 South Willow Avenue and ward 1 from NC neighborhood conservation the DG downtown general
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kerth, Development Services Department. I do have a brief update on this item. As a reminder before I go into that, though, this property is located just southeast of downtown, one lot northeast of the intersection of Martin Luther King Boulevard and Willow Avenue.
 Since the last City Council hearing, the applicant has brought forward a bill of assurance, which is included in your packet. The applicant proposes to restrict the building height allowance associated with the requested downtown general zoning district from five stories to three stories.
 Accordingly, Mr. Williams' office included a memo that's also attached to the agenda describing this bill of assurance as adequate and also including an amended ordinance if the council would like to entertain that bill of assurance and amend the ordinance that's currently in front of them. With that, that's all I have as an update. And Mayor Andrew Brink is available as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Yes. Would the applicant like to speak before the council?
 Good to see everybody again. A little bit earlier in this meeting than I was here last time, but wanted to provide a...
 I wanted to provide a bill of assurance limiting building heights to three stories. It's similar in nature to the request that's on college. Again, trying to be a good neighbor and provide attainable housing for Fayetteville. I think at the last discussion there was some, or at the last meeting there was some discussion about historic preservation district that's not yet codified.
 You know, I can't directly speak to that, but what I can speak to is trying to be a good neighbor and a good citizen of Fayetteville that you know, I call home and and and want others to call home. So trying to do this to hopefully promote infill and again help our our city thrive. I'm here for any questions. Thanks for your time. Okay. Do we have any questions for the applicant or the staff?
 Mayor Jordan, I do. And good evening. As you all know, we did have the conversation at our last meeting as it pertains to the potential historic district. And I was just wanting to know, what did we, what are the, did we ever, I know as a council we did not.
 As far as Mayor Jordan, the Planning Commission or city staff rather, what information do we have concerning that? As it relates to making an impact on the potential historic district.
 Jonathan? Certainly. I think the latest update that the council has is generally what you heard from Ms. Willis at the council meeting about a month ago. She is actively working with residents in that area to collect signatures as a very initial step at possibly formulating a historic district.
 As it relates to this request, I think it's much too soon to tell. Historic districts take many forms and many different shapes. Did you have something to add, Councilmember Jones? No, no, no, no. No, I was just listening to your statement.
 I know that Ms. Willis and I and Britton met together last week, I think it was last week, and and I listened to her plans for the historic district, the Black Historic District, and she's working on it, but we don't have a Black Historic District boundary set, chiseled in stone, I would say, right now, but I know there's a lot of work being done.
 And it may be helpful to add as a bit of context, as this is a rezoning request, very infrequently, at least in Arkansas, do historic districts take the form of zoning actions, actually changing the land use allowances of the underlying property? They more readily have to do with development standards or land.
 processes being implemented to try to preserve the historic nature of an area, which tends to be about building materials and what can go into the demolition of buildings and things of that nature. But like the historic districts that are already on the National Register in Fayetteville, the zoning that underlies a lot of those properties changes not regularly, but not infrequently either.
 I just wanted to know if we, if I could, if this could impact that. I know that at the last meeting, we, I don't recall, but well, I think that we did, you told us that if I'm not mistaken, that this could be a part of that district. So I just didn't know if it would impact the district's ability to do that.
 how that would impact the district and if there's anything else that we need to do. We certainly don't want to hold up progress, but I do think that we have a responsibility to make sure that that does not negatively impact the historic district. Mayor? Yes. May I ask Kit? Yes.
 I understand what Councilmember Jones is asking. However, with the fact that we have no historic district in place now, we can't hold an applicant to a standard that's not there, can we?
 I think I have to agree with Jonathan Kurth on that, that as you said we don't, there might be one being planned. We don't know whether it will be effective or whether the City Council would even approve it if they get enough signatures or what their limitations would be. So I think that yes, it would probably be inappropriate to try to block a zoning or a rezoning right now at this stage of the development of a potential historic district.
 Thank you, Kit. And I certainly don't want to be...
 I certainly don't want it to be viewed as blocking it. I just had some questions and because as you all do, I've had individuals reach out to me immediately after the council meeting. And so as a city council member, as we do, addressing these concerns, I do want to make sure that I'm very informed and that I'm able to address this in a timely manner.
 in the way that I'm supposed to. And so that is why I'm asking. I'm certainly not here to block progress, but I do have, that was a concern. And so I'm wanting to be able to communicate this back to those community members who have expressed the same concern. Okay, Tracy. Mayor, if it's appropriate right now, I'd like to move to amend the,
 This ordinance to include the bill of assurance that was offered voluntarily by the applicant. We have an amendment to add the bill of assurance, which is three stories high, if I remember that correctly. The limit to three stories high. Yes, sir. Okay. All right. We have a motion and a second to do that. Can we get a second? Okay. Okay. Any discussion on it? Jackson, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 yes more yes we differ yes Karna yes lunch yes sir yes and my understanding of that motion is that we amend the ordinance as well as put the bill of assurance as an attachment to the ordinance right okay anything else well let's take some public comment then
 everybody gets one turn to speak we have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating will speak after that who would like to address us on this topic is in the chamber
 who do you have on no one on zoom okay i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the second reading um so what discussion would you all like to have or what action would you all like to take um
 that's your line oh okay sorry trying to teresa had her light on sorry before me i was a little confused i didn't know where that light was exactly is that okay um i just um and i had some conversations with andrew about this as well and so i wanted to at least acknowledge and and kind of
 just like our growth concept maps where we haven't made those reasons yet, right? And so maybe not the ideal projects are happening there, not saying this is not ideal, but because we don't yet have that plan for the black historical area. There have been conversations from community members who've expressed they're doing their research and their due diligence. And I've had a lot of ahas with things I didn't know about Fayetteville that have been coming forward over the last couple of years.
 And they're going to continue to unveil additional things that I think will inform us about the kind of area that we want to respect for our black community that hasn't happened historically over time.
 wanting to hope that we continue to be sensitive to the type of projects that are going there. But even with all of that said, I do side and understand too that legally, there's nothing to prevent us at this time from zoning and it does meet our strategic priorities. So for that reason tonight, I will be supportive.
 Thank you, Mayor. I do want to thank the applicant for minimizing the height to three stories. I think that will help with the neighborhood integrity a little bit. Although this is a very old part of town and it's...
 It makes it very difficult because you want new buildings to be able to integrate into an existing neighborhood. I do think the height limitation will help a bit. But if the applicant could be sensitive to the context of the neighborhood, I know the neighbors would be very pleased with that. So thank you again for putting that bill of assurance together. I appreciate it. And I'm sure that your neighbors do too.
 anything else that's the way y'all want to do i would move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading jackson would you please call the wrong herzberg yes jones yes fuller yes peter yes verna yes punch yes turk yes
 in order to rezone that property described the rezoning petition rzn 2023-25 for approximately 0.22 acres located at 524 south willow avenue in ward 1 from nc neighborhood conservation to dg downtown general subject to a bill of assurance any final comments council i would just want to comment and congratulate mr brink on the grand opening of his bank facility
 And should he not develop sensitively, we will force him to serve a second term on the planning commission. And so I'm confident that he will be a conscientious and sensitive developer. Thank you. I think he'll do just fine. All right. Well, there's no other final comments. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes.
 verna yes punch yes turk yes okay let's move along to new business number one an ordinance to approve the application of hannah chefka on behalf of crown hookah lounge incorporated for permit to operate as a private club in the city of federal at 550 west dixon street suite number two yeah
 Whereas Act 1112 of 2017, which amended the permitting procedure set forth in Arkansas Code Annotated 3-99-222 for private clubs in the state of Arkansas requires the City Council to approve by ordinance an application for a permit to operate as a private club before the applicant can submit an application to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Division.
 Now therefore, it being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves the application of Hanna-Chefke on behalf of Crown Hookah Lounge, Inc., a copy of which is attached to this ordinance for a permit to operate as a private club in the City of Fayetteville at 550 West Nixon Street, Suite No. 2.
 Chief. Yeah, good evening, Mayor and Council. So as the Mayor's mentioned and Kit has mentioned as well, the Crown Hookah Lounge is located at 550 West Dixon and it's changed ownership. It's changed ownership from Sammy Hadadji to Hannah Chepka.
 As a result, Ms. Chefka is seeking a private club permit from the Arkansas Alcohol Beverage Control Board. And as Kit mentioned, the law requires that she come before the governing body and seek permission before she can apply for that permit private club permit from the Alcohol Beverage Control Board.
 And so that's what we're doing tonight. The law that Kit mentioned, I believe, was passed in January of 2020. And I think this is only the second time that we've become before council requesting this. So it's kind of new for council and certainly new for for me as well. So if approved, she would seek that seek that permit from the Arkansas Beverage Control Board and the Crown Hookah Lounge would then replaced.
 that existing private club permit, which is the Club Rush Uka and Cigar Lounge. FPD, myself, we have no objections to this private club application, and we do anticipate that Ms. Chefka will abide by all ABC regulations, city ordinances, and state laws, and I believe Ms. Hannah Chefka is here tonight and will bell herself to answer any questions that council will have.
 okay would the applicant like to speak for the council i guess i spoke too soon maybe miss chef is not here okay so i know she was told to be here so okay what uh what questions okay all right let's take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak you have five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council stay on topic give us your name and address
 those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating in the zoom will speak after that who would like to address this on this in the chamber who do you have on zoom excuse me nobody mayor all right i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading and uh what discussion would the council like to have what action would the council like to take i move he's to spend the roles and go to the second reading second we have a motion in a second go to the second reading jackson would please call the road herzberg
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. And Norris approves the application of Hannah Chieftkey on behalf of Crown Hookah Lounge Incorporated for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 550 West Dixon Street, Suite Number 2. May we suspend the rules and go to the third reading?
 Second. And we have a motion and a second to go to the third final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 Yes. In order to approve the application of Hannah Cefke on behalf of Crown Hookah Lounge, Inc. for a permit to operate as a private club in the City of Fayetteville at 550 W. Nixon Street, Suite 2.
 Okay, final comments from the council. I would just add that the previous owner is remarkably complimentary of the Fayetteville Police and Fire Departments and has been a model operator and I would fully expect his role modeling to carry over to the new owner. So please accept the compliments, Chiefs. Thank you. Okay.
 all right Jackson oh I sorry mayor I have one comment I would hope that the new owner would actually make sure that the graffiti that's on the outside of the building be removed and kept in good shape so I would hope that that change would occur thank you okay okay Jackson please call the roll Hertzberg yes Jones
 Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Verna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Okay, number two, an ordinance to amend Article 3, Department of Parks and Recreation, and 33 departments, boards, commissions, and authorities of the Federal City Code to update the name and revise the duties of the department and its advisory board. Kipp.
 Whereas in 1965, Ordinance 1526 created the Parks and Recreation Department and the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. And whereas in 2021, the department was restructured to include arts and culture and was renamed Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs Department. And whereas city staff and the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board recommend amending the city code
 to reflect the significant growth and changes in the department. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the title of Article 3, Department of Parks and Recreation to Department of Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs.
 Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 33.01 Establishment of the City Code and enacts a new Section 33.05 as follows. Also Establishment. There is hereby established the Department of Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs. Section 3.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, I hereby repeal Section 33.016, Administration of the City Code and enact a new Section 33016 as follows. Administration, the Department of Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs shall be administered and directed by a qualified person appointed by the Mayor who shall be known as the Director of Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs. Said Director shall have one or more assistants, probably more than one.
 such staff as the City Council from time to time shall authorize.
 Section 4 of the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Oxford, hereby repeals Section 33.017, Duties of the City Code. And an action new, Section 33.07 as follows. Duties. It shall be the duty of the Department of Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs to A. Develop a 10-year Park System Master Plan to assist the Department and City in providing parks and recreation facilities and services. B.
 B. Develop and coordinate all recreational activities of the city. C. Prepare development plans for present parks and future park areas. D. Investigate federal, state, and private programs for park, recreation, and cultural development and prepare necessary forms. E. Provide and manage aquatic venues.
 F, develop an arts and culture master plan and implement programming in alignment with the plan. G, coordinate management of the city's natural resources and urban forest. H, coordinate citywide beautification efforts. I, perform such other duties and conduct, such other activities in connection with the park, recreational, and cultural needs of the inhabitants of the city, as the City Council shall from time to time provide.
 J coordinate with an advised public works department concerning park maintenance needs and schedules and K work with other agencies and nonprofits to expand arts parks and recreational opportunities and amenities in the city where appropriate section 5 At the City Council the city of Fayetteville arcs are by repeal section 33 point 0 1 8 parks and Recreation Advisory Board and
 the City Council and an action news section 33 point 0 1 8 as follows parks natural resources and cultural affairs advisory board subsection a composition number one nine members shall be appointed by the City Council terms of three years such terms shall be staggered so that three members will be appointed each year all members of the parks natural resources and cultural affairs advisory board shall serve without compensation
 Subsection B meetings of the advisory board and responsibilities The parks natural resources and cultural affairs advisory board shall meet monthly with the director to the advisory board shall advise and recommend To the director mayor and City Council on all aspects of parks natural resources and cultural affairs activities number three
 The Advisory Board shall coordinate with other boards such as Urban Forestry Advisory Board and the Fayetteville Arts Council, as needed, to stay informed on topics related to the Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs Department. Four, annually the Advisory Board shall advise on work program priorities. And number five, the Advisory Board shall also recommend priorities for capital improvements and means for financing the same, and shall prepare an annual progress report on department activities.
 I hope I didn't steal all your thunder. No, no, no. I'm just going to provide a nice recap of the changes. Thank you for reading the entire ordinance so eloquently.
 This is an update and clean up item for the most part to this chapter of the Fayetteville Code of Ordinances. As you're aware and as Kit noted, the department in late 2021 was restructured to move the maintenance functions under Public Works and added an Arts and Culture Division. At that time, the department was renamed.
 So what we are requesting is just to update the department name throughout the chapter and align the duties with the current responsibilities of our department. Specifically relating to department duties, we've included developing the 10-year Parks and Recreation System Master Plan. We've updated language referencing the pool to aquatic venues to include things such as splash pads. We've included developing an arts and culture master plan.
 we've updated language to include the management of natural resources and the urban forest and we've added specific coordination with the public works department regarding maintenance related to the advisory board proposed updates include updating the name and the duties and responsibilities of the department
 Other notable updates include coordinating with other boards and commissions such as the Urban Forestry Advisory Board and the Fayetteville Arts Council because their work has much overlap with our department. And we're also proposing to update the budgetary duties of the board to include advising on department work program priorities and removing the requirement to develop an operating budget to be submitted to the City Council by the board.
 These amendments were unanimously approved by the Parks Board at their October meeting. And I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Okay, what questions do we have for Allison on this? Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. Allison, you know, we've had a couple of projects where the EAC really needed to be in conjunction with the parks.
 a recreational board and i'm so i'm wondering why that board wasn't also included in and how you would collaborate so we specifically included the boards that are staffed by members of our department staff for this but we're obviously happy to collaborate with any of the boards that the support the city anything else
 Okay, well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber? Okay, who do you have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first...
 reading so what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take I make a motion we should spend the rules go to second reading second motion second to go to the second reading Jackson would you please call the roll Hertzberg yes Jones yes or yes Whittaker yes Verna yes punch yes Turk yes
 orders to amend article 3 Department of Parks and Recreation in section 33 departments boards commissioners and authorities of the Fayetteville City Code to update the name and revise the duties of the department and its advisory board for a moment there was two of you we're on second reading I'm just disappointed in that to read the whole thing I'll make a motion spin the rules go third read second
 all right we've got a motion to second go third and final with section of the police called world herzberg yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes verna yes punch yes turk yes an ordinance to amend article 3 department of parks and recreation in section 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the fatal city code
 to update the name and revise the duties of the department and its advisory board any final comments from the council Jacksonville's police called the road Kurtzberg yes Jones yes Moore yes Whitaker yes Verna yes Bunch yes Kirk yes okay
 Let's move along to number three, an ordinance to amend 97 parks, natural resources, and cultural affairs of the City Code to address both recreation trends, safety concerns, protection of natural and cultural resources, and clarify and simplify language. Kip? Kip Thorne Sure, I skipped ahead. Whereas several updates are needed in Chapter 97 to address evolving recreational trends, as well as safety concerns and protection of resources,
 and whereas several minor changes are proposed including clearly defining the term director referring to the city instead of the parks and recreation throughout the chapter and updating department name to parks record national resources and cultural affairs where needed and whereas potential changes include increasing protection of natural resources located in parks adding protection for cultural resources including adding a permit system format process for the use of metal detectors
 and other remote sensing devices and regulating the use of electric bikes on soft-service trails and RAS repose language also makes permanent the current temporary allowance for the director of parks Natural resources and cultural fairs to approve vendors or point market organizers to sell food Non alcoholic beverages and arts and crafts and parks as part of the city sponsored events and where our city staff in the parks and Recreation Advisory Board recommend approving those amendments and
 now therefore be ordained by the city council of the city of favela arkansas section one at the city council the city of favela arkansas hereby repeals chapter 97 parks natural resources and cultural affairs of the city code and enacts a new chapter 97 as shown in exhibit a attached to this ordinance okay allison thank you miriam let me share my screen
 So we are proposing several updates to Chapter 97. This section largely regulates the rules and operations of the park system.
 We're bringing this forward to clean up language, update the department name, and to respond to evolving recreational trends. We're also proposing three more substantial changes, including adding measures to protect cultural resources, adding regulations for electric bicycles on soft surface trails to protect people and the trail system, and removing the sunset date, allowing the city to work with market organizers and vendors to sell arts and crafts in the parks during city events.
 Proposed cleanup items include updating department name and the advisory board name, more clearly defining the term director in this chapter to be the director of parks, natural resources and cultural affairs, replacing the term park staff with city staff as recommended by the city attorney's office.
 We're also proposing to move section 97.070 motor vehicles out of the section regarding lakes and into section 97.055 traffic regulations so that it pertains to all parts and not just the lakes. We're proposing to simplify and combine sections 97.032 and 97.033 regarding the removal of and harm to natural resources.
 Also in this section we are clarifying that hammocking is allowed in parks as long as it does not cause damage to plants, trees and other natural resources. Lastly we are proposing to remove section 97.999 in its entirety as it already is covered in another chapter of the code and that has to do with penalties.
 In terms of the more substantial changes and additions, we're proposing a new section 97.033, removal of cultural resources. Similar to section 97.032 regarding natural resources, this new section proposes to regulate removal of cultural resources by prohibiting the unearthing, removal, damage, transplanting, or taking or possession any cultural resource.
 we define cultural resources as any artifact or other such items that physically evidences past human activity or society including but not limited to fragments of bone shell pottery stone flakes arrow or spear points tools and other such artifacts coinciding with removal of cultural resources we're proposing to add section 97.039 that requires a permit for using metal detectors and other remote sensing devices
 This is intended to allow for official and recreational use of equipment but limit physical disturbances in the parks like digging holes and minimize the removal of sensitive resources. Permits would be issued through the Parks, Natural and Cultural Affairs Department and would be required to be on the person using the equipment giving staff a way to verify that use has been permitted. Next we are proposing three changes to section 97.054 bicycles, motorbikes, skateboards and
 The first is the addition of Section B where we are proposing to regulate electric bicycles on self-service trails. Arkansas state law defines e-bicycles as bicycles equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts and further classifies those into Class 1, 2, and 3. Class 1 e-bikes provide assistance only when pedaling and have a maximum speed of 20 miles per hour.
 Class 2 e-bikes may have pedals and a throttle, do not require pedaling, and have a maximum speed of 20 mph. Class 3 e-bikes provide assistance only when pedaling and have a maximum speed of 28 mph. The addition of this subsection would allow for Class 1 e-bikes on soft surface trails would be allowed. All other classes of e-bikes would not be allowed.
 I've just included a couple of photos of the types of e-bikes that would be allowed on soft surface trails if approved. These are both examples of Class 1 pedal assist less than 750 watts. E-bikes such as these shown, Class 2 and 3, would not be allowed and e-dirt bikes would not be allowed.
 Next, the second change is adding subsection C to protect natural surface trails by prohibiting use when closed or when conditions are not appropriate for use and would cause damage. Finally, we added subsection D exempting adaptive cycles, city maintenance and emergency vehicles from the previous sections. This would allow for any type of adaptive cycles to be used on the soft surface trails and would allow for our maintenance and emergency response teams to operate vehicles on the trails as needed.
 In section 97.086, vending and peddling, you may recall in June we brought forward a proposal for a trial period until the end of the year to work with a market organizer and vendors that would allow for the vending of arts and crafts in city parks in conjunction with the Gully Park concert series. Tonight we are requesting to remove the sunset and to continue to allow the director to approve the market vendors and market organizers to sell arts and crafts in the parks as part of city sponsored events.
 The trial period was successful this summer in Gully Park. We heard positive feedback from the public and the organizers and added another unique element to the concert series and promoted our local arts community. We're working to define a process of organizer selection in the coming weeks to allow for market organizers and vendors to work with the city in conjunction with events that we're sponsoring. Again, these amendments were unanimously approved by the parks board in October and I'm happy
 okay what questions do we have for alice no trace uh this is more common than a question um i think these are really good improvements um happy to see that you're protecting cultural resources and requiring a permit if there's any remote sensing of any kind so i want to just commend you on that and then also only
 only allowing class one bikes on soft services. That also is a big improvement, and I think it will go a long way into maintaining those trails and not having them degraded as quickly. So thank you, Allison. Thank you. Anything else?
 I had some questions at the agenda session and I apologize I haven't had time to get back with you but there's a few that I wanted to ask and follow up on the metal detecting just because I'm a really heavy user of the parks.
 And I do see it happening from time to time, and so I'm curious just about how that would execute. You know, we can have an idea and then not exactly know, you know, how it executes. But oftentimes I see people after hours on the weekend that are using those. Are they going to be able to access a permit after hours, after business hours or on the weekends? Yes, so I'm working with our IT team to develop an online form that you can submit via the internet at any time. And so then we would receive that and be able to approve it.
 Okay, so as long as you would have technology, you would have the ability to get a permit, is that correct? Correct. Okay, so in the event you don't use a technology outside of like a metal detector, then there might be a paper form potentially? We certainly provide a paper form. Okay. Absolutely. And then I didn't know if there was any conversation around potentially exempting children because, you know, thinking about sometimes, you know, kids,
 have certain hobbies that they try out with their parents and get it for Christmas and go out. So I was just curious about if there was any thought of exemptions potentially for kids. That happens a lot of times with fishing and things like that. We didn't consider exemptions for children. I think in that case we would probably just request that the parent fill out the permit form. And so just under their name?
 We can work out the details on that. I was just curious about the execution of it. I see the metal detecting occurring in the parks. Wilson Park happens, Gully Park happens on a regular basis. It's often times like a weekend. The other question is I didn't know if we had any additional details about in the event that someone had a concern.
 What does it look like for someone to do the actual compliance part of it? So if it is not during, I guess, during business hours versus like on a weekend. So adding this, the requirement for a permit is intended for us to sort of understand, you know, who are using these devices in our parks, what are they using them for? It's really not...
 to prohibit this recreational activity. We're trying to educate that we don't want removal of these resources happening and also just to understand where it's happening and make sure that we're not leaving behind potential hazards in the parks when things are removed.
 We're using it to educate folks about the removal of cultural resources and the importance of that. We're also using it to educate ourselves on how the parks are being used in terms of enforcement or following up on people using it in the parks.
 The fact that we're requesting the permit be held on the person gives us the opportunity to make sure that the permit has been approved. We have staff working on weekends, and so if there is a concern, those staff, we have ways of communication for that word to get to myself or someone else on staff.
 Anything else? I never cared for Code Section 97.999. I'm just glad we're repealing that. Okay. Anything else? All right. Let's take some public comment, or did I already do that? I've lost a little track. Okay. Thank you. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. And those...
 There in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zone will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this? Mayor and city council, this is the first time I've ever done anything like this. So please bear with me. My name is Mel Zabecki. I live at 3563 West McLaren in West Fayetteville. I'm the state archaeologist and I work for the Arkansas Archaeological Survey. I just wanted to put on the record that I support both the
 Ordinance 97.033 and .039. It's a big problem all over the state that we're having looters and people that don't really know that they're looting, but removing cultural resources. It's a trend that starts in childhood, and we're trying to educate children that treasure hunting is not part of what we condone because archaeology is not a treasure hunt.
 So I just wanted to support both of those and thank everybody for their consideration. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance that's on the first reading. So what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I'll make a motion. We suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk?
 In order to amend section 97 parks natural resources and cultural affairs of the city code to address evolving recreational trends Safety concerns protection of natural and cultural resources and to clarify and simplify language Make a motion we spend rules go third and finally second of emotions second go third and finally Jackson would you please call the roll? Hertzberg yes Jones. Yes more. I
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 yes more yes wedeker yes verna yes lunch yes turk yes okay thank you all let's go to number four an ordinance to amend 71.170 vehicle restrictions for shared use paved trails and 71.171 rules
 of the road for the federal trails of the federal city code to update the types of vehicles allowed on city shared use paid trails kit
 Whereas section 71.170 restrictions of type of vehicles allowed on city trails and section 71.171 Rules of the road for fatal trails were adopted prior to the enactment of electric bicycle act ACA 27-51-1702 in the state's 2019 e-bike legislation officially defining and classifying e-bikes as
 And whereas the staff recommends amending section 71.170 and 171.171 to adopt the definition of e-bikes to align with the electric bicycle act to clarify the types of vehicles authorized for use on the city shared use paved trails and to use consistent language in the rules of the road for Fayetteville trails. Now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeals Section 71.170, Restrictions of Type of Vehicles Allowed on City Trails. And an Act of Replacement, Section 71.170, as follows, Restriction of Type of Vehicles Allowed on City Shared Use Paved Trails.
 Section A. No golf carts or comfortably sized vehicles, nor any gas-powered vehicles or electric vehicles without motor outputs exceeding 750 watts, one horsepower, except city maintenance or emergency vehicles, shall be driven or operated on any city shared use paved trails except as follows.
 Pay cabs may be operated on City Trails pursuant to the authorization and restrictions of Section 117.102 of the Fayetteville Code. A segment of the Meadow Valley Trail from Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard underpass through the University of Arkansas property
 and the Washington County Fair property adjacent to Interstate 49 shall allow the use of motor vehicles during the annual Washington County Fair or other special events authorized by the Washington County Fair Board or as authorized by the University of Arkansas. Subjection 3, a portion of the Clear Creek Trail from Highway 71 to an existing cabin shall allow motor vehicles for access to the cabin, but only with the permission of the owner of the cabin.
 Subsection B, electrically powered personal mobility devices including but not limited to electric bicycles, e-bikes as defined in Arkansas Code Annotated 2751-1702, and electric motorized scooters, e-scooters as defined in Arkansas Code Annotated 27-51-1902, may be used on city shared use paved trails only when the use does not create a safety hazard for other trail users.
 section two that city council city of fable archer who repeal section 71.171 rules of the road for papal trails and an act of replacement section 71.171 as follows
 Section 71.171, rules and road for favorable trails. Subsection A, pedestrians and joggers, pedestrians, skaters and joggers should walk, skate or jog near the right side of the trail to accommodate faster runners, skaters, bicyclers and faster traffic to pass on the left side of the trail. Subsection B, bicyclists, skaters, runners and others.
 Persons should ride their bicycle, electric bikes, e-bikes, skateboards, scooters, electric motorized scooters, e-scooters on the right side of the lane unless passing. Persons running, skating, or riding bicycles, e-bikes, skateboards, scooters, and e-scooters shall give an audible warning prior to passing slower traffic. Passengers shall not cross the solid yellow line.
 Passer shall not cross the dash yellow line if oncoming traffic is close enough that the passer cannot return to his or her lane before reaching oncoming traffic or if crossing the dash yellow line causes any safety hazard. Speed Limit. No person shall travel on a city shared paved trail at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under conditions then existing.
 Section 2. No person shall travel on a city's shared use paved trails at a speed greater than 15 miles per hour. Section 3. Persons traveling on a city's shared use paved trail in such a manner as to indicate a reckless disregard for the safety of others shall not only be subject to punishment as set forth in Section 10.99, but may have their right to use city trails suspended for up to one year.
 Any person violating a suspension period shall be guilty of a separate violation of this subsection. That's it. Okay. Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. Good evening. My name is Dan Eifling. I'm the mobility coordinator for the City of Fayetteville with the assistance of the City Attorney's Office and various committees we've drafted this language. The City Attorney's explanation of the ordinance is great.
 The main update is that we will be allowing all electric bikes as classified under state law on the paved trails, unlike the natural surface trails, which need to be that
 just a class one, but class one, two and three will be allowed, which is consistent with state law. And we are also restricting any vehicles that are above or at that 750 watt threshold, which surpasses the state definition of an electric bike. And then you're into an electric motorcycle or electric vehicle type of device that we wanna keep off of our shared use paved trails. So with that, if you have any questions, I'm happy to answer.
 What questions do we have? Yes, please. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Dane, for being here to answer a couple of questions. So does state law prohibit the city from, for example, not allowing a Class II e-bike on the shared trails? The state law says that electric bikes, as defined into those classes as it meets the state definition, shall be allowed.
 Anywhere that a bicycle is allowed and so it's what we're doing is aligning that so just making explicit what the state law already says Okay, I wanted I worried about that that state laws were preempted Are being able to restrict certain classes? I mean the class two as you know e-bike You don't have to do pedal assist at all. It's just a throttle and you can certainly be about 15 miles per hour very quickly and
 Do I understand that correctly, that there's no way that the municipality could restrict e-bikes to a certain class? We need to follow state law on this. We have, you know, we just have to follow the state law and what they say goes. Okay, just clarifying, Kit. Okay, thank you. Anything else? Thank you. Keep in mind, we do have a 15 mile per hour speed limit.
 Well, I hope we don't have to hire an e-bike wrangler. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first.
 And those participating by the same will speak after that. Who would like to address us on the EBAC ordinance? No? No. No? Alright. Don't worry about that wrangler. Alright, so we're on the first reading. This is an ordinance. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? I'm going to agree to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Jackson would you please call the roll Hertzberg? Yes Jones. Yes more. Yes Whitaker yes, yes Yes, yes, oh
 In order to amend section 71.170, vehicle restrictions for shared use of paved trails, and section 71.171, rules of the road for Fayetteville trails of the Fayetteville City Code to update the types of vehicles allowed on the city's shared use of paved trails. Would we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Johns? Yes. Harris?
 Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. In Ordinance of Amend, Section 71.170, Vehicle Restrictions for Shared-Use Paid Trails, and Section 71.171, Rules of the Road for Fable Trails of the Fable City Code to update the type of vehicles allowed on city shared-use paved trails. Any final comments from the council? Sarah.
 I appreciated your comments, Teresa. And I kind of go back to when we put regulations in place, what's the whole purpose? And it really is around we do have a speed limit. And so I hope maybe while we're talking about the 24 budget and we're having our workshop tomorrow, maybe we can speak a little bit about how we 
 take care of the regulation around when we do have something in place because before e-bikes were so prolific, I'm out on the trails a lot with my children. I stayed at home, and so you have toddling children that you're trying to capture and bikes speeding by, and even a regular e-bike.
 bike with someone clipped in going fast on the trail is much higher than 15 miles per hour, and it's very dangerous for children. And so since e-bikes have really been introduced in a bigger way, it's a lot more bikes that are out there, which is great. We want folks using the trails. But I think it's a bigger conversation, too, about how we're neighborly, what that looks like to remind people about really following the regulation. Because if we have rules in place,
 But then there's really no mechanism to really remind folks to be mindful about those. Then, you know, it's really just, you know, paper and words. And so I hope that will be something we can kind of talk about what that looks like. Okay. Anybody else? Oh, Mike. Yes, sir. I apologize. Oh, okay. All right. Well, if there's no other final comments, Jackson, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 whittaker yes verna yes punch yes turk yes okay thank you all let's go on to number five an ordinance to approve vacation did i take public comment on that you did okay thank you all right let's go to number five an ordinance to approve vacation 23-12 property located at 546 west
 Center Street in Ward 2 to vacate .04 acre portion of utility easement. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, newly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this make Excuse me. I knew I shouldn't try to swallow.
 This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any damage to or relocation of any existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense. Number two, any existing services and customers shall be disconnected from the existing customers. Then AT&T will have no objection to removing the existing aerial service lines in the alley. Thank you.
 And number three, all impacted water sewer lines shall be relocated and detailed engineering plans must be reviewed and approved by the city of Fayetteville prior to construction. Okay, John.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is located in Ward 2 in downtown. More specifically, it's at the intersection of where Gregg Avenue transitions from being a public street to a public alley as it crosses Center Street west of West Avenue. Before going further into this particular item, I did just want to remind Council if you heard me say out of the agenda session or announced to you if you weren't able to
 This particular item, C5, and the subsequent item, C6, are immediately adjacent to each other. To make sure that we're all on the exact same page of what we're talking about, though, we are talking about the utility easement vacation for this particular item and this particular request.
 What that utility easement vacation looks like is about 1,700 square foot, which is a portion of an existing utility easement that is at the southern end of the eastern parcel that abuts Gregg Alley. The applicant has requested to vacate it.
 in anticipation of developing the property. You can see the ALTA survey on the left-hand side, which is shorthand for a very high detailed survey that includes topography, tree preservation, and details like that, as it relates also to the applicant's proposed project, which you can see on the right-hand side with the vacation in yellow on the left and red on the right.
 When evaluating the request, staff has no issues. All the relevant utilities have consented to the proposal, and accordingly, we are recommending in favor of it. I think you heard Mr. Williams describe the conditions to their fullest, but in a quick summary, these include our standard acknowledgement that any damage to existing utilities will be at the cost or will be borne by the applicant.
 And AT&T specifically had a comment given they have some aerial lines in the alley ensuring that they want to make sure those are disconnected before any work is done. And finally, that the City of Fayetteville's Engineering Division has ultimate approval prior to the easement being vacated. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And the applicant for the item, Mayor, is Suzanne Clark, although I believe there's several other members of her team here tonight. Thank you.
 Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and Council. I'm Suzanne Clark with Clark Law Firm on behalf of Trinitas Ventures. As Mr. Kirk mentioned, this first item is a utility easement. We'll be getting into a bit more complicated right-of-way easement on the next agenda item. As it relates to this item, we would simply ask that you take staff's recommendation and vote in favor of it.
 and to try to make efficient use of our time before you tonight, I'd like to invite Jeff Zalesko, who is the architect on the project, to give you an overview of this multifamily development that necessitates both of the vacation requests before you this evening. Thank you.
 Good evening, City Council, Mayor. My name is Jeff Solisco. I'm a senior principal with Antunovitch Associates. We're architects collaborating with Trinitas on this project. As Suzanne had mentioned, the, could you go to the next page, please? The, the
 EASEMENT IS BASICALLY EMPTY SO THERE'S NOT A LOT TO TALK ABOUT RELATED TO THAT. SO WE'D LIKE TO TAKE THE OPPORTUNITY AT THIS TIME TO GIVE YOU A LITTLE BIT OF A DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED DESIGN. SO WITH THAT, NEXT PAGE, PLEASE. SO THE SITE IS LOCATED BETWEEN MEADOW AND CENTER STREET AND THEN ALSO THEN AT THE OAKRIDGE TRAIL AND THE FRESCO TRAIL.
 The location is about a quarter of a mile, a five minute walk from Dixon Street, about a half mile and ten minute walk from the Fairville Square. And then also on the footstep of campus. So it's really in a great central location, a great place for development of this type. Next page please.
 I'd like to give you just some little bit of vital statistics about the project. We have 224 units, 661 beds. There's a mix of studio, one bedroom, two bedroom, three bedroom, and four bedroom units. I'm also building seven floors plus a basement level. Some of the local location highlights include connection to the trail system.
 Public transit accessibility, walking distance, of course, as I just mentioned, to Dixon Street University in Fayetteville. Amenities that are part of the project include a bike and scooter storage location, lounge rooms 24-7, studio and co-working space, state-of-the-art fitness center, and a spectacular rooftop terrace. Next page, please.
 The location of the site along Center Street, the main lobby is at the west end of the site, west the southwest corner. Also at that location is an access drive for vehicular entrance into the site. So those are two important elements of that you're seeing on the first floor of the building. Also there's parking and we are proposing that there would be a park area at the northwest corner of the site. Next page please.
 The next floor, there you go, thank you. Directly above that lobby floor, that lobby location are also amenities. So there's a lot of activity because of those two elements being at the corner of the building. A lot of activity, light on the street, activity seen from the street. So it's a really important area of the building. Also in this plan, again, you're seeing at the south side, the Oak Ridge Trail, and then at the east side, the Fresco Trail that runs along the perimeter of our site. Next page, please.
 SO, I WANT TO TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE DESIGN. THE PROPOSED MATERIALS AND COLOR PALETTE THAT YOU SEE ON THIS PAGE ARE INSPIRED REALLY BY NEIGHBORING BUILDINGS IN THE SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD. ALSO, WE REALLY LOVE TO CONTINUE THE TRADITION OF MURALS IN FANVILLE. WE ALSO WOULD LIKE TO BE PART OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE ARTS QUARTER.
 along the trail. So we think that those are things that we feel would really be important additional elements to the project. Next page, please. Thank you. So this is a view of Center Street looking northeast.
 Taking into consideration those indigenous materials, we then really wanted to provide a vibrant contemporary design and that's what you see here. We feel like this is a very powerful expression here, but again taking in neighborhood elements and materials from buildings that are nearby. Also with this, you see this amenity roof terrace element along Center Street. You also see along the building really dense lush foliage and landscaping.
 Also with this, you're seeing the opportunity that we've provided for a mural next to our lobby. And then that lobby where it's a 612, again, a very powerful, strong design element right at grade. And then we have that potential mural, which we feel could be something that would be by a local artist, could really be something that really enlivens the entry element to the building. Next page, please. Okay.
 This one's also, this is looking the south view of the trail looking northwest. Again, you're seeing the modern architecture and this architecture wraps around the entire building. It's there's no backside to this building and I'm going to reinforce that a couple of times. But modern elegant design elements, very strong base to the building. Also again, you're seeing the
 you know, lush landscaping along center, but that also wraps up along Frisco Trail, also dense landscaping along the edge of the building. Also wanted to point out, we have parking in the base of the building, but it really it's expressed in masonry with dense screening. We think that's a really elegant approach to the screening of a parking and also creating a strong base to the building. Next page, please.
 Again, reinforcing what I had said earlier, this is the view along the Frisco Trail. No back side of the building. Also we have balconies wrapping around each side of the building when they're on the balconies on the trail and on Center Street, provide eyes on the street, you know, just vision towards the street, towards the trail. We think that that's really an important element.
 What you're seeing here also is we have this great opportunity for a really powerful mural expression on this side of the building. We feel this could be a beacon and a landmark along the trail, just a powerful thing as people come along that area. So something that we're really excited about. Also, as we're considering the design of this, we would also provide a bottle filler and bike repair station for anyone going by and using the trail. So we think that that's
 a nice amenity and something that we're happy to provide. Again, being that the Fresco Trail is along the street, the Greenway is up near us, again, easy access throughout the town. And again, dense landscaping as you're seeing along the trail between the trail and the building.
 Next page, please. And then lastly, we've been thinking about this. There's really a great opportunity here on our property next to the trail to have a food truck and we could see this located there during peak hours of use on the trail. Just something that we could think that could really enliven that area on the trail and provide a nice amenity for people going by. So thank you very much for allowing me to present. We'd be happy, our team, to take any questions at this time. Thank you very much.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Jonathan or the applicant from the council? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the council chambers?
 Come on up. I just have a question. No, just, you've got to come up to the mic. Please introduce yourself. Good evening. For those that don't know me, my name is Mitch Weigel with Downtown Properties, and I represent the Property Owners Association at 600 West Meadow Street, which is the adjacent property.
 And I'm here to talk about, seems to be that somewhere I lost something that items five and six seem to be kind of conjoined, but not conjoined. So I want to make sure I'm addressing the council on the alley vacation. Is that now or is that next? Because I saw, I just heard a whole lot of both in this presentation. Yeah, I know. Thanks. I'll be back. All right. Anybody else?
 nobody on zoom okay I'll bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what discussion with the council like to have or what action with the council like to take I maybe suspend the rules and go to the second reading motion second go to the second reading Jackson would you please call the roll Hertzberg yes Jones yes more yeah we defer yes Berna yes punch yes Turk yes
 In order to approve the BIC 43-12, we'll copy off the 546 West Hunter Street, Ward 2, to make it a .04 acre portion of utility. And we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. Second. We have a motion to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Dirk? Yes. Any final comments from the council? I'm sorry, this is Sarah over here. I'm in Zoom land and I can't hear what Kit is saying.
 Just, I don't know if his microphone's not on. Is your microphone on? You're right. Do you want me to read it again? No. I know what you're saying. I'm pretty sure I know what you're saying. But I just did want to make it clear that I could not quite hear everything. I just repeated what I said the first time. That's what I thought. So...
 Well, there you have it. All right. If there's no final comments from the council, Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number six.
 in order to approve vacation 23-04 property located at 612 West Center Street in Ward 2 to vacate 0.15 acre portion of alley right of way kit.
 whereas the city council has the authority under aca 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the city council has determined that the following described portion of an alley right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes now therefore be ordained by the city council the city of favo arkansas section 1
 that the City Council of the Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of the valley right away as described exhibit be attached to the planning department's memo section 2 a copy of this ordinance to be certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as a good but agent of planning departments memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk in section 3 this vacation approval is subject to following conditions number one all impacted water and sewer lines or facilities
 shall be relocated and detailed engineering plans must be reviewed and approved by the City of Fayetteville prior to construction. Number two, right-of-way vacations are subject to approval and issuance of a grading permit in association with a multifamily development that occupies both partials 765-12934
 dash double zero zero zero and seven six five dash zero one eight eight six dash zero zero zero number three any damage to a relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner developers expense number four all Sweepco AT&T and Blackhill energy facilities located within said right-of-way must be relocated as required by those entities and number five alley right-of-way 20 feet in width
 shall be dedicated along the northern and western property lines.
 Thank you, Mayor. As I alluded to in the previous item, this request is in immediate adjacency to the utility easement vacation that was just proposed. To again put it in a more visible context, what we just discussed was the area in red, utility easement, and what's for discussion with this item is the Gregg Alley right of way that connects Center Street to the south with Meadow Street to the north.
 Although this was previously plotted as a street, it was downgraded in 2004 by city council at the time in anticipation of a project that did not necessitate it functioning as a public street.
 The request before council tonight is to vacate the remainder of this right-of-way, again, which is considered alley right-of-way, to contextualize it within the development that you previously saw in the applicant's presentation. You can see it here in red, which it effectively bisects the area that they're interested in developing.
 There are a number of issues that staff evaluated when considering this request. One of the primary ones that planning staff and staff at large is charged with is considering whether public right-of-way or abandoning it more specifically is in the long-range interest, the public interest of the residents and the city of Fayetteville.
 And then reviewing this one, there were some mixed findings, certainly. This is our downtown area where connectivity is highly prized. It's an area where we anticipate the need for increasing amounts of intensity and the ability to move around as efficiently as possible.
 On the other side of the coin, this is an excellent location to have a significant amount of housing as the applicant has proposed, specifically student housing as this project is intended to be. It's in close proximity to the university, it is in close proximity to numerous amenities that would afford easy access to the university, not just street networks but also student
 our trail network. Given this and the balance of connectivity and the infill score, the infill rating of this property, staff ultimately finds that it's in the public's interest to vacate this alley right away and afford the opportunity of this housing to be built.
 Also, factoring into the discussion, the councilman noticed that there's a, I think what could be called a traffic pattern audit with this request. There was some question from both the Planning Commission and others about whether this alley serves a critical piece of our street infrastructure in the downtown area or street network in the downtown area.
 What that traffic pattern audit suggests is that it does not carry a substantial amount of traffic either during peak hours or otherwise. Additionally, there's an assertion that the vacation of this alleyway may have an additional benefit of reducing the number of curb cuts that are currently crossing the trail that goes along Center Street. So the vehicle trips that are passing through that alleyway would no longer be doing so if the alley were closed.
 Another item that was of considerable consideration with this request is the existing infrastructure in this area. From staff's perspective, this was just as paramount, if not more so than long range planning considerations.
 The alleyway as it is today serves as a choke point for several very significant lines for this part of the city. While there is a water main through there, the main concern rests with our sanitary sewer network. A large portion of the university campus and the downtown area drain to exactly the point north or where the alley hits Meadow Street north.
 As a result, a significant amount of due diligence was sought with our utility department to evaluate the feasibility of this. Ultimately that was done in conjunction with our consultant that we keep on retainer, for lack of a better word, to evaluate exactly these kinds of situations with their determination being that relocating these lines is feasible and ultimately it may end up having a system-wide benefit since it could be done in a more deliberate manner.
 and you're familiar with our sewer network elsewhere in the city, this is generally not an ideal arrangement to have sewer lines stacked on top of sewer lines. Being able to consolidate these or relocate these in a coherent manner could have a system-wide benefit, ultimately.
 Finally, a consideration certainly to take is that there has been quite a bit of public comment on this item. It has been both broad in its scope and broad in those making the comment as well. This has been included in your PAC and as always I don't try to go into every exact detail of it but in an effort to characterize it, there have been some comments in support of it recognizing that having.
 Student housing near or near proximity to the university has value to it there's also been comment from adjoining property owners that this may reduce the potential for cut through traffic going through their private parking lots and
 Conversely, there have been a number of people that have concerns, especially about the current tenants of the buildings in this area and more broadly what these buildings represent to startup businesses and those who may seek lower rents or leases when they begin their business ventures.
 with all that in mind staff is ultimately recommending in favor of the vacation request there are four conditions that staff proposed to the planning commission and include our standard boilerplate statement that the applicant is responsible for any relocation or damages to facilities also that this alley abandonment is subject to project specific rating permit approval we'd rather not
 go through the same exercises we did in 2004, where we abandoned public alley and a project doesn't come to fruition. So the grading permit is that first construction level document approval that indicates that a project is likely moving towards completion. A third condition that staff recommended is similar to the last item you saw, that any relocation of the water and sewer infrastructure in this area is ultimately subject to our engineering division's review and approval.
 And lastly, that other utilities that have expressed comments with this item in association with their consent will see their facilities relocated as well.
 This item was heard at the Planning Commission at three dates. The first was September 11th. At that time, the Utility Department was not comfortable with making a recommendation of approval or consenting to the vacation request. They needed more time to evaluate the feasibility of relocating that water and sewer infrastructure. So staff accordingly recommended tabling.
 This occurred again at September 25th meeting. At that meeting as well, the commissioners did enter some dialogue about the item before tabling expressing concerns about the loss of connectivity that vacating this alley may represent. Finally, at the October 9th meeting, that's when the utility department was able to receive documentation that a relocation was feasible and they consented to the alley vacation request.
 and the Planning Commission forwarded the item to Council by a vote of seven to two. The biggest distinction though, and worth noting, is the ordinance in front of Council tonight includes one additional condition which the Commission added, given their concerns about connectivity. Their proposal is,
 Excuse me, their proposed additional condition is that a 20 foot alley right away be dedicated along the property's northern and western boundaries. And to put that into somewhat visual terms in the previous slide, that would effectively create a connection where you see the red arrow there running to the west property line along the railroad right away before turning south to Center Street.
 And with that, I am happy to take any questions the council has. The applicant team mayor is the same as it was before and I'm available. Thank you. Okay. Would you like to speak with the council? You have 10 minutes.
 I'm an avid cyclist, so all this talk about e-bikes I found very fascinating. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and the council members. My name is Todd Wendell. I'm here on behalf of Trinitas Ventures, the developer for the project. You know, I was going to start off, if we can click to the next slide here, with an overview of the request. But I think Jonathan did such a great job of describing to you what we're requesting in terms of the request.
 vacation of the alley and the utility easement. He had better graphics too, so we'll just skip over that.
 So I think we're going to, the presentation tonight, we'll try and keep it short. We'd like to cover some details about the request, kind of a high-level overview of some of the comments and concerns that were raised during the Planning Commission process. We've already heard from Mr. Zalesko, the architect for the project. We've also brought the project's traffic engineer. He's in attendance tonight and will provide some detailed information about the vehicle utilization relative to the alley.
 If you vote in favor of vacating the alley and easement, what Fayetteville gets in return is a multifamily market-rate residential building designed by a world-class architect with references culture in Fayetteville.
 thoughtful design, garden and urban edges, I think creates a real strong connection to the surrounding community. In terms of how this project fits into Fayetteville's master plan, as Jonathan mentioned, it scores very high on the urban infill design criteria established by the city of Fayetteville. It also meets the criteria and intent for Fayetteville 2030 and the 2040 plan.
 One thing we can all agree on is Fayetteville is a great place to live. The University of Arkansas and the city at large are growing. That growth is putting tremendous pressure on existing housing stock, both market rate and purpose-built student housing. The housing report recently presented at city council and highlighted by the Arkansas Democratic Gazette last week highlighted how critical it is that this community get some new housing soon.
 We believe that our project is part of the solution. It is in the right location, is the right time for this type of development, and will provide much needed housing for a community that is in dire need of housing.
 Next, I just wanted to briefly touch on some of the questions and concerns raised at Planning Commission. We heard that vacating the alley may have some adverse effects on emergency access for the fire department to surrounding existing buildings. We've had many conversations since then with the fire department, and they don't have any plans to use the alley in their current plan or in the future for accessing any of the buildings in the surrounding neighborhood.
 We also heard questions about safety and security, something that Jonathan touched on. We believe that our project actually makes the streets safer in the surrounding area. As Jonathan mentioned, we're reducing the number of curb cuts from three down to one. We're widening and resurfacing large portions of Center Street. We're actually reconstructing the sidewalk on Center Street, bringing it up to current standards. We believe this will improve safety in the area.
 Also keep in mind that the building will be professionally managed by Trinitas engineers, maintenance and property managers that will be onsite daily and vigilant in the project's
 Lastly, there was some concern about if the alley was eliminated, Meadow Street becomes a dead end. And working with city staff and the fire department, we designed what's called a hammerhead turn at the end. You can see it in the lower right-hand corner of the plan, which will allow any size vehicle to turn around at the end of Meadow Street.
 Another question that was raised had to do with if you eliminate the utilities, what happens to the utilities? I think as Jonathan mentioned, the plan is to relocate those utilities from the area highlighted in red to the western edge of the project, the area highlighted in blue.
 And in doing so, we're gonna modernize aging infrastructure for this city block and also resolve some existing infrastructure challenges that currently exist in particular with the sewer system. And of course, that's all at our expense. With that, I'm gonna turn it over to Christian from Cremeley Horn. He's gonna give you a little bit more detail on the traffic stuff.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. First thing I want to mention with this project is student housing does not create a large amount of traffic. In fact, our level of traffic fell below the threshold that would require a full traffic study. However, we did go ahead and do a traffic study
 met with city staff to determine the scope methodology of that study. These were the intersections that were selected from that meeting. We collected counts the following week in September of 2019 in line with the general TIA requirements.
 With any traffic study, we look at the conditions before the site and after the site. What you have before you is the morning peak hour and PM peak hour of the adjacent intersections. What we see here is that traffic engineers assign grades to intersections to determine how well they're operating.
 In this area, we saw all As and Bs, which mean very low level of delay per vehicle. And we're actually posting the worst delay measured from any approach or movement at that intersection. So what this tells us is there's excess capacity in the network directly surrounding the site as it is today. Next slide. With our site, we added our site traffic onto the study intersections along with the data
 relocating the traffic that was on the alleyway to West Ave. All the traffic now has to go through West Ave and Center Street. So we were particularly interested in how that would affect the operations. From our analysis, it didn't. It's still operating at level service A with the added alley traffic to that intersection, along with the added traffic from our site.
 You do see an increase at University and Center. That's just for one movement, the eastbound left. That's because there is more traffic along Center Street from our development. But the acceptable level of service is deer below. So we're definitely still within that range. Next slide. With the alley vacation, wanted to dive a little deeper into the number, like what the vehicle, who's using this alley. And we took traffic counts at all these locations.
 In the morning there are only six cars using this alley, and in the afternoon there are 22. That's one every three minutes. A lot of those vehicles are either going to the condominiums just to the north or to the existing commercial uses that are right there, with a little less than half actually cutting through and using this as a network connectivity route.
 that being only peaking at nine vehicles in the afternoon. Also wanna draw attention to the amount of pedestrians and bicycles we have along this route. You have 129 crossings at your Frisco Trail crossing on Center Street, which is pretty incredible, the amount of activity we're getting in this area for multimodal use. Next slide.
 The main takeaways we want to highlight is that West Avenue can easily accommodate the traffic that Valley currently has. In addition, West Avenue is operating at a low capacity where it could handle future development and projects as they come along in the City of Fayetteville.
 The existing commercial uses in the condominium are a large portion of that traffic that's on the alleyway. It's not used for the connectivity of the region. And furthermore, if West Avenue was to ever become congested,
 You're at a 300 feet grid system in this area. Locust has less vehicles and less. School has less vehicles. Traffic can easily redirect between Dixon and Center in this area if you ever see a large increase in traffic for any reason.
 Removing the alley creates a longer segment of trail that's completely protected from vehicles because now we just have a driveway on our far southwest corner and the existing crossing on Meadow with no interruptions in between creating a much more pleasant environment along that segment.
 The last point I want to make is that you will save costs by not having to maintain this road and also getting new utilities through this area. With that, I want to turn it back over to Todd to present some options.
 All right. So as we discussed, Planning Commission- Your time is up. You have your 10 minutes. Oh, okay. Mayor, I'd like to request, this is a pretty significant project and they're giving us a lot of good information. I'd like to give them some more time. That's fine. How much time do you think- I think I can wrap up in under five minutes for sure. Yeah, I'm good with that.
 okay five minutes all right all right i appreciate it thank you very much um so as you know planning commission uh voted in favor of the allen utility easing vacation with the condition that the alley be relocated rerouted to the west and north side as jonathan pointed out in his presentation um so now i take kind of end uh we're proposing two options for your consideration uh the first option is a
 is what we're calling the park plan this is the plan that was originally submitted to planning staff and the plan commission for review some of the advantages or some of the the key points that we'd like to make in terms of the park plan is that it maximizes green space and permeable site service it provides much needed outdoor space for residents of the building and the community uh
 It's more closely aligned with the multimodal transportation and green space criteria outlined in Fayetteville's 2030 and 2040 plans. It is the preferred plan for Metroplex condominium complex, the residents who live just north of the project. And it certainly is the plan that we prefer. So in the end, it's a better project for the residents. It's a better project for the community at large.
 is what we're calling the alley plan. And this is clearly not the preferred option by the developer or the design team. Some of the trade-offs here, of course, is that you have less green space, you have less permeable site surface than in option one. As Christian pointed out, it increases the interaction between cars and pedestrians. It's also not the preferred option of adjacent homeowners.
 so i'll end with uh you know as we move forward we we're more than happy to move forward with either option it's it's up to uh city council the mayor uh it's to uh to which which decision what which approach we take um but it is worth noting that if we aren't able to get one of these options approved that it would more than likely kill the project and with that i thank you for your time and uh i'm happy to answer any questions that you have
 Okay, thank you. What questions do we have for the staff or the applicant? If I could ask a question of the traffic engineer. Sure. And if he has access to his slides, I'm just wanting to make sure I understand the evening vehicle count on the alley and where you envision those vehicles going. If you could walk me through that one more time. Yeah, sure thing. Can we pull up that slide?
 And if I could, I guess I should explain the context of my question is I'm trying to look at the value of relocating an alley versus simply eliminating the alley to preserve additional non-impervious surface for the city given our stormwater management concerns and issues we have. So with that context, let me turn you loose.
 Sure thing. So in our traffic analysis, we take video cameras and we record different intersections. So we recorded Center Street vehicles coming in and out of the alley, which also got that parking lot right there, along with the northern side of this alley where the condominiums are, vehicles crossing the trail to the east, and vehicles going in and out of the commercial use to the west.
 This traffic is in and out of this area. The 22, the circle, is the total along that alley at all times.
 So those vehicles, two originated from the southeast building or left from that building. Four came from the north end of those commercial uses in or out of that side. Seven came from the condominiums and nine from the east side. Thank you.
 Then when you show your grades for your intersections, could you just talk us through that one more time? I just want to make sure I'm grasping that. Yes. So we use a modeling software. We record the peak hours, the traffic volumes, and then we set up the intersection.
 will produce results for each movement at the intersection. So the eastbound approach, the northbound approach, the westbound, the southbound. I didn't show all those on here, I simplified it, so I selected whatever result was the worst. In this case it was an A for all of those movements, which means all of the movements perform at level of service A at that intersection. Thank you very much. And so, and then for the C,
 All the other movements were A and B, but the eastbound left because it's
 they have to wait for traffic going westbound. With our site traffic, it did increase the number of vehicles going westbound towards campus. So they now have to yield to that traffic. So there was a slight increase of delay. That delay was two second increase per vehicle, which really won't be noticeable for the average daily user, but it was just enough to cross us over that threshold into level of service C.
 So if you keep this diagram up, if the alley were to be relocated and it's parallel to the train line, it's now going to dump into Center Street near the C grade intersection anyway, versus if there's only 22 vehicles using the alley during the peak time,
 You're only adding 22 vehicles over how many hours to West Avenue? One hour and it won't be 22 vehicles because as we discussed earlier, some of those were going to those commercial uses that are there today. That's going to be removed. And also for the condominium, that was a large portion too.
 They're likely they may go to West but they also might choose Dixon and come South and be rerouted a totally different direction. But yes, the most would be 22. However, it will be less. Thank you. I appreciate that. Questions from the council got one question. I see Chief Harden sitting back there and the applicant mentioned with the potential
 around the building that would not improve or you as fire department would not utilize that. Is that, did I understand that correctly? That's correct. You have that, can you bring that drawing back? So the fire, the ladder truck access, which is the 26 foot access, it would be to the front on Center Street.
 and then we've got access to the rear, and then the two hose pull areas was talking about. We've got to have a certain amount of length that we can deploy a hose, and we can do that from either one of those two accesses. So, yeah, no, we're good as far as fire access goes. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the council? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Mm-hmm.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? Yes, Mitch, it's your turn. I've seen no others. We'll slow down.
 Good evening. My name is Mitch Weigel. I'm with Downtown Properties and I represent the 30 owners and the POA at 600 West Meadows Street, the Metro District Lofts, aka the condos. So I'd like to speak, first off, I'm in favor of the vacation of the alley and here's why. We have our own camera system in our parking lot that monitors what we've had as opportunistic crime
 Through our parking lot and we don't have good enough cameras to actually identify Some of the vehicles but we can't identify that a lot of that opportunistic crime late at night and weekends Comes up that alleyway because it's it's dimly lit. It's not well traveled or monitored people come in there random activities go on in our parking lot and
 And then they sort of leave that way. It's kind of out of sight. We have a lot of walkthrough traffic. We do have some traffic that comes through our parking lot, which is probably not attributable to our owners or residents, but is outflow from the commercial businesses from the bars and the restaurants that are located on Spring Street on the other side and Brian Rimbels property. They do exit that way out the back and through the parking lot.
 So my property owners, for their own safety and security, and we feel that would be less of crime, would like to see that alleyway gone. They have the ability to use Meadows Street, come make their turn, go up Meadows Street to West Street, or go back out Spring Street to access West.
 any, you know, the rest of the city. Fire services, trash services also use that. They don't use the alleyway. The alleyway is not, wasn't designed for that. It was downgraded to an alley, is my understanding, to provide limited services for a development that didn't happen. But alleyways are to provide services
 where connectivity could be a problem or provide pedestrian walkways. Well, we've got a beautiful trail that's adjacent to that alleyway, so we don't really need any more pedestrian, that for pedestrian link. And if it really was going to be for vehicular use, it would be a street. So we'd like to see the alleyway go away. Additionally, we're opposed to realigning the alley to the north and the west.
 That's the same issue. Why would somebody put that in, create that opportunity for additional cut through traffic, which is what we really have, and then turn it over to the city to maintain? If it's going to be a street for traffic to haul people in and out or ingress and egress, it should be a city street. It shouldn't be an alleyway. And there's no need for that. Their own study, which I'm surprised by the number of vehicles that go down that, indicate that there's just not that much traffic for it.
 on behalf of the 30 owners at 600 West Meadow Street, our property owners association, we are in favor of the vacation, but we are not in favor of realigning the alley. We'd just like to see it gone. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? All right. Do you have anybody on Zoom, Susan? No, sir. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 This is an ordinance, it's on the first reading. What discussion would the council like to have? What action would the council like to take? Thank you, Mayor. I just want to go on record saying that I would be supportive of, I believe it was option one, not rerouting the alley. I like the green space. I like the encouragement of walkability. And I like that the individuals with condominiums are in favor of that. So that would be my preference.
 I have a question for Kit in regard to the green space with option one. In talking with the team with the project, it sounds like the space will be available to the public, but I'm curious, it is on their private property, and so what kind of agreements or terms would potentially be necessary to make sure that the public would have access to that space?
 Well, you'd have to have a public access easement if you want to let the public have access to it. It's on private property and so unless there's a public access easement to it, then they would have a right to say you can't come on this property unless you're one of our tenants or something like that. At what time during this process would we potentially look into that if that was a pathway we wanted to head down?
 Well, the City Council has the power to change the last five, the vacation approval subject to the following conditions. So you can look at the following conditions. Number five is the one that says alley right of way 20 feet in width shall be dedicated. So if that is not what the City Council wants to do, then you could either remove that or you could potentially modify it.
 One way you might modify it is saying that you would modify it so that the developer would actually create the landscaped area shown in his option number one, and that would give you a landscaped area there, but not necessarily open to public access. I mean, they'd be able to see it from the street, but wouldn't necessarily be able to walk through the garden. Councilmember Bunch has her hand raised. Okay, go ahead.
 Yes, I'd just like to underscore what Holly said. I've looked at this, and I really feel that it would be fine just to vacate the alley. It doesn't really seem necessary to have it wrap around the building, and it seems like it's one of those things that just because we can ask for it doesn't mean that it should be asked for, and I just really, I would be fine with just vacating the alley. I think it...
 it produces the outcome that we would like to have. And I do feel that that alley as it is now, at least, is underutilized. And I don't think that's really going to change much with this building. So that's just what I wanted to add. Thank you.
 I would agree with Councilmember Hertzberg and Bunch. I would be in favor of the first option just because I understand connectivity, but I don't think this gives us, if you weigh benefit versus the negatives to it, I don't see that that gives us any benefits. I think the negatives outweigh it. So I believe I would go with the first option.
 I would like to make a motion to amend the conditions on the ordinance to remove that last condition for the reroute. Second. Okay. So you're making a motion to amend, to do away, what are we? Commission number five. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 So that would be what you wish to remove? You're taking that away, right? Yes. To replace anything else, except for option one where they have a landscape? I would like to amend to remove and accept option one. Okay, very good. That's a lot easier for me. Scott, do you second that? Yes. Okay.
 all right oh yes sarah i'd like to offer a friendly revision to the amendment if you're getting to hearing that i would like to ask as well with option one and the removal that we do look for there to be public access easement there in that garden space as part of the conditions there i think that's a good idea can i ask the applicant to come back up and see if that's
 Something they'd be interested in doing. You can ask anybody up that you want. Okay, thank you. If you guys could give us your opinion. Yeah, I think at a high level we can agree to that in concept. I think we need to work out the details for sure. I would accept your friendly amendment. I appreciate that. Thank you. So that would be to replace that with not only the garden option shown in option one, but also to allow public access easement.
 in that area? Okay, so is that what the motion is at this point in time? Yeah, I'm trying to get my head wrapped around this. So you're removing five and you're making a motion to pass one and then you're putting with the amendment public access. Am I right? Right. My only concern is I understand your your thinking. I struggle with
 giving a public right-of-way just because it opens up, then it takes their property and opens it up for anybody to do whatever they want to do as long as it's within city ordinance. And I don't know, as a property owner, I don't know that I'd want to do that. So I think we need to think about that one before we tie it to this
 Well, I certainly understand what you're saying, because I would love to see that as a public area too. But I think it's a little higher level than where I mean, I think we're reaching a little higher than what we need to right now. I'd be open to conversations later. I just don't know about
 this one. Help me out here. All right, what you can do, Sarah, you can bring an independent amendment, which would not have anything to do with therapy. Well, I think Holly and I are in agreement, so I'd like mine to stand and I'd like to respond. I mean, you're not saying that yours wouldn't stand, but you can say I want to make a motion to do public access, but I know that Holly's agreed,
 to what you want to do, so it would be your motion, and then you're adding some sort of amendment on there that Scott doesn't agree with. So you'll have to help me out here.
 So Councilmember Bunch is also wanting to weigh in. Councilmember Bunch, I'm sorry. Why not? Go ahead, Sarah. Sorry about that. I had some questions about this as well, and I think in theory having public access sounds lovely, but if this is someone's...
 private property and they do have they do have management or people on staff maybe not a concierge 24-7 but there's people working there uh in the facility 24-7 as was my understanding but how will they monitor what goes on in this space because all of our public parks have some sort of
 of, you know, patrol or something like that, you know, that they're not just an open area for anybody to go into. And, you know, and what Scott said kind of really piqued my curiosity, what you would imagine this would be, because if they can do anything that would be allowed on any public property, then they would do that on this little bitty strip. And it's a really
 pretty small area too and I don't know how that would work for the the owner if they have no problem with it then you know they would figure something out and I think that's what they were trying to tell us that it would have to be within reason for them to to manage that area as a public space but those are my concerns okay let me tell you let's run through this again here's what I got I've got Holly that made a motion
 to remove number five and to pass number one she agreed to add an another friendly amendment to what she made the motion to do is that right that's correct okay now real hip on that idea so you were the one that said mayor can we take public comment on the amendment yeah you can if you want to i think we need to give the applicant now that they've heard us an opportunity
 pipe in here. Well, I'm just jimmed down for time. Yeah. I've got nothing but time. All right, so let's start another round of public comment on the amendment. Now this would be, right now, what I've got is removing five, passing one with a friendly amendment to add public access, correct? That's correct. All right, all right, let's start with all of that. Who'd like to be first?
 It's in the chamber, and then we'll go to the zoo. I'll bring it up as a guy. Do I need to reintroduce myself? Mitch Weigel, downtown property, 600 West Meadow Street. So as a real estate guy and a guy that's in development and understands a little bit more about access and easements, granting somebody an easement or asking for somebody for an easement for a property for just public access 
 The city has some indemnification against liability. I mean, who's going to maintain liability if you just grant open access to this public space and somebody has an accident, lights a fire, does other things? I personally, and I don't have a dog in this fight, I just want to see the alleyway vacated. But that sounds like a horrible idea just on face to just say, we can't give you this unless you give public some access to this. That doesn't sound like liability.
 what we're about. It just, I can't see it as a good idea, requiring a public access easement. Okay, Mitch, I'm sorry. We should be running a timer on public comment.
 I don't think I hit five minutes. I think you've got more time is what I'm trying to say. I don't think that there's much to say. I just think that giving somebody public access or an easement without knowing what a person's liability is and asking them to make that decision is wrong. Okay. Well, you've actually got almost four minutes. Okay.
 now let me run through these rules again so we're all on the same page everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration which we need to put a timer up don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those president chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom after that now let's move along here who will be next now nobody wants to talk
 nobody's on zoom mayor all right well then i'll bring it back and here we are again so and i want to respond um and to scott's comments into the public comment um i don't think that this was pulled out of thin air asking for this access um i know in conversations i've had with this team um and also at the planning commission um here in front of city council they've talked about
 the public having the ability to have access. That's never been something that's been an issue. The second thing is that the taxpayer and the public is giving something up, and so I don't necessarily, you know, and you think about the city plan and our strategic goals,
 Trying to make sure as we continue to push for density in this area, wanting to make every opportunity for people to have ease of access to natural spaces is incredibly important for their overall health and well-being. The Civic Plaza is not going to be for everyone right around the corner, especially when they're having very lively entertainment. And so having these pocket areas and moments of potential serenity are incredibly important in our community.
 And so I think in the overall scheme of the way that this property interacts with being kind of a good neighbor, I think that allowing the public to be able to interact in that space while they see it and view it right in these very public spaces as they will be a part of these amenities along the arts corridor makes a lot of sense for our community.
 Thank you, Sarah, and I agree. I think that that was something that was brought up during the meetings that we've had with the applicant. I did want to ask Kit a question about the liability brought up by Mitch. Is there anything concerning to you about the public access easement? I would not be worried about liability. The city is protected by sovereign immunity for even our own negligence, even if we did something negligent there.
 so that this would be if this public access easement would be granted to the city it'd be ours and therefore if there was liability it would be ours but we are protected by statutory sovereign immunity so I'm not worried about liability there there might be unintended consequences but that's not a liability issue
 If we wanted to, if the applicant wanted to come back and remove this, is that a possibility to request a vacation of the public access easement? Oh, yeah. I mean, you vacate things all the time, and so if there was issues or problems that came up, then certainly the applicant could come back up and ask for a vacation of what they would be giving now. Okay. I would be comfortable proceeding as is. Okay. Let me roll through what I got here.
 i've got a motion to remove five and pass number one and then we've got a friendly amendment to add public access now if you're not agreeable that scott then she would probably make that motion that then we'd have to get another second is that right
 We're basically just replacing five with the new five, and the new five is that they're going to landscape it pursuant to their option one presentation tonight, and that there will be an access easement on that property so that the public could walk onto it. So we're removing the original five and putting in a new five? That's correct. All right. Well, that's easy enough.
 May I ask the applicant to step, can I ask the applicant a question? You can ask anything you want. Can I have one of the applicants to step up, back up? So obviously this was brought forward and we didn't expect, or you didn't expect it, and I think we asked for some comment and you didn't give us. Is that telling us that you are okay with this? Are you, you know, help us here?
 listen i think that um there have been some very good uh comments made about this and i am a bit concerned um the way i've done this on other projects is that there's been uh public access but then there's been it's been done within certain hours right the the space itself is actually gated and closed at a certain time
 It would be better if, in all honesty, if the condition of public easement was not part of this for us, in all honesty. Okay. And if you had your choice of option one and the public easement versus option two, would
 which is preferable to you? I mean, I hate to put you on the spot, but this change is really option one. Understood. I think probably option one, but I think we need to work out the details on exactly what the public access is. Are there hours, the exact extents of the space, et cetera.
 I assume if you did not give public access, your residents would have specific rules for using that park area. So if they give public access, those rules could not be enforced in any way. Am I understanding that correct? Yeah, if the public access easement itself doesn't have those kinds of restrictions, then they're wide open.
 Yeah, it just seems like this is a fairly complicated issue here and we need to put a little bit more thought into it. Well, we're trying to vote on this tonight. But anyway, we don't have to vote on this. That's exactly I mean, we can't get in agreement here on removing. We're talking about removing five and putting in a new five, but passing number option number one and number the new number five is the public access. And I want to be sure I've got this in my head, right?
 But you say that you want to work on the public access part of it. Is that correct? So if you do, then we don't need to vote on this tonight. I guess that's one question we have to ask you. So that's something that you all need to decide. I'm a little confused. When I first asked if the applicant was in favor of public access, you said yes, and now we're saying no. So I don't really know where you guys are. Oh, well, then there's that.
 I think what I said at the beginning, at a high level I think we could agree on something but there are certainly details that need to be worked out. So I don't think we're prepared to work out those details tonight. And what I didn't think this was going was that it was going to be condition of the approval. So that's kind of where this thing turned. So would you like to wait two weeks to work out the details or you want to vote tonight?
 I think we want to vote tonight. Oh, well okay. But you're not in agreement with the motion. I have one potential suggestion that might limit public access a little bit. It could be certainly limited by the hours of the day, like the daylight hours or something like that, so that there wouldn't be issues with late night voting.
 activities there that'd be one way you could limit that okay Mike Thank You mr. mayor and this is for Holly and Sarah so the voting is going to get convoluted for someone like me let me just say that no one's done anything wrong but if I support for instance the
 Alley vacation, but don't support one of the other items then I'm compelled to vote no because I'm not in agreement with everything It would be so beneficial to me to know where council stands if we could vote separately on Is there going to be The alley vacation last are we going to request an easement on?
 use easement for this space, yes or no? Are we going to request that the alley be relocated, yes or no, and then the alley vacation itself? That would just help me out.
 Okay, so there is a lot of contention now. I would be happy with splitting it so that we can vote separately on each issue. Okay, so that's what I wanted to do to begin with. We vote on the public access separately, which you make that motion, somebody's going to second it. Then we vote on...
 removing five, and passing one, right? That sounds like a plan. All right. I didn't think it was going to be this complicated. I seconded earlier what you had. Okay, okay. Here's what we're... All right, let's start all over again.
 So you make a motion to remove five and pass one. Okay, Holly? I make a motion that we remove five and replace. I think probably parliamentarily, if you want to try to start over, then we need to have the motions withdrawn formally. Okay. Somebody withdraw this. I'm ready to withdraw the House. Made and seconded motions. I withdraw my motion. I make a new motion. And the second has to agree with you. Okay. I'm sure they will. I agree. Now let's start all over again.
 i make a motion to remove uh section five or condition five replace with an additional section or sec uh number five that accepts option one okay remove the landscaping that is in option and then we'll vote on yours separately sarah second it all works out the same way believe me or not however in order to have separate votes then instead of having a friendly amendment
 for this public access. You just need to say that you're moving to amend hers to add public access. That's all there is to it. Alright, now let's vote on removing five and passing one. Shall we?
 Okay, just to make sure that I have everything recorded properly. Wait a minute. Hang on. What, Sarah? So, Kit, I don't understand how we're going to vote on option one and then come back and amend it later procedurally. Well, yeah, you actually can do that if you want to. You could have made a motion earlier, but if you want to vote on just the initial 
 change and then you could seek a further change if you wanted to after that's passed yeah thank you for the clarification yeah that's what i was trying to say i mean it'll all it'll all be it'll it'll work somehow okay we have a motion to remove five and pass one first okay so right now mr mayor i have the original motion from council member hertzberg and council member burner withdrawn okay and the one that we have right now is amend to remove
 can amend to remove condition five and add option number one in its place yeah that's condition five you're changing yes and condition five correct okay everybody got that okay here we go okay all right now jackson please call the roll herzberg yes jones yes boer yes wedeker yes verna yes
 Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. That was easy enough. Now. Motion to amend. I don't know if I'm adding item six at this point. You want to further amend what just happened. Further amend item five to add public access easement to the garden landscaped area in option one. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to add public access. Six or...
 Whatever. Where's it land, Kit? Now, six? No, it's five. She's amending the new five. Okay, the new five. Of course. As opposed to the old five. So what discussion shall we have on that?
 And we are going to take another round of public comment. So one question, Kit brought up an option to tighten the wording or public access that might make it a little more appealing to the applicant. Could you explain that again?
 Well, public access does not necessarily mean it has to be 24 hours a day every day of the year. You can have limits on how much public access is there if you decide to. And so one thing that you could do is limit the public access to daylight hours if you felt like that was the right thing to do or other limitations on it if you wanted to do that too, whatever they might be.
 I'm happy to add that too in the event we want to say you know matching with our parks you know it's the similar hours and nature to the parks regulations I'm very open to that because we we work under those circumstances with our you know parks that abut right up to our trail system as well. Okay now we're going to take some public comment because I actually want to hear something on this.
 All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. That would be allowing public access. Please give us your name and address and those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Okay, now who would like to address this on allowing public access? No, we heard from the developer, the applicants.
 so does anybody from the public want to address us on this okay nobody on zoom all right now i'll bring it back to you all now you want to have any other discussion on public access all right good enough well do we have the most change
 To fall in line with parks regulations to be the hours that basically I think it falls in line with its daylight to sunset Basically, it's got some hours in it, but it's similar in nature to that Correct we went through it earlier. Yes Okay, everybody got that it'll be lined up with parks public access Okay so how I have it written right now is a man to add public access to condition 5 to conform to designated park hours and
 that sounds great right sirs i've watched okay that's good great all right great all right any other comments to get your eye on oh sorry jackson call the roll gertzberg yes stones yes moore yes wedeker no verna no lunch no turk yes
 That's three votes no and four votes yes? Correct. We got four votes yes? Yes. This is an internal motion, so it doesn't require the state to decide on the vote. However, even an internal motion requires an adjoining of the council members, which would include you, Mayor. So we have eight. Well, if you... So it is going to require five votes to pass.
 what I need to know is do oh yes all right okay all right let's go number seven Mary's tough to go on the ordinance oh oh that's the amendment sorry sorry sorry okay now this is okay we're still on the first reading that
 i mean we suspend the rules that go to the second reading second second all right we've got a motion and second we go to the second rate texas please call it up earthsburg yes jones yes or yes wedeker yes bernard bunch yes
 Turk yes okay an order to approve the AC 23-05 were properly located at 612 West Center Street Ward 2 to vacate a point 1 5 acre portion of an alley right away maybe suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have motion second go third and final reading Jackson would you please call the road Hertzberg yes Jones yes floor yes Whittaker yes Verna yes
 Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. And in order to approve the AC 23-05, a property located at 612 West Center Street, Ward 2, to vacate a .15 acre portion of an alley right of way. Okay. Final comments from the council. All right. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Fuller. Yes. Biedeker. Yes. Berna.
 yes Turk no okay now we're ready to move on to number seven all right do y'all need a break all right let's take a break let's go ahead and get started again all right number seven an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition rzn 2023-026
 for approximately 5.27 acres located at 5839 west dot tipton road in ward 4 from r.a residential agricultural to rsf2 residential single family two units per acre kit be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby changes his own classification of property shown on the map exhibit a
 And the legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RA residential agricultural to RSF2 residential single family two units per acre. And section 2 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Okay. John. Thank you, Mayor.
 This property is in West Fayetteville, well within Ward 4, and includes three parcels on the south side of Dot Tipton Road, between 54th Avenue to the east and Double Springs to the west. Each parcel, as you can see in the aerial here, is developed with a single-family dwelling, and all three of them fall below the existing zoning requirement standards for the underlying R.A. Residential Agricultural Zoning District that currently applies to the property.
 With that on your mind, the applicant is requesting to rezone the property from RA to RSF2, residential single family two units per acre. When evaluating the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff does find it to be compatible, both not just with the existing land uses in the area, which are significantly large lot residential or agricultural in nature, but also the existing zoning in the area.
 If you can see on the zoning map here, which indicates the area within one mile is property, the preponderance of the zoning designations are range between RSF1 and RSF2 to RSF4 with patches of RA residential agricultural.
 However, as council may recall seeing other rezoning requests in this area, Dot Tipton Road is significantly underinfrastructured, if you will. It's a very narrow road. There's not currently any sanitary sewer service. So it's definitely something to consider and I'll touch on again momentarily.
 Looking at the request from a land use long range planning standpoint, the property is designated as a residential neighborhood area. As you no doubt have heard me say many times, this designation is intended to apply to a wide range of residential uses contextually, depending where you are in the city.
 Again, in this particular part of Fayetteville, where it's either agricultural or large lot residential in nature, staff finds a request to rezone to RSF2 to be an appropriate increment of increase. Anything beyond that may be incompatible or inconsistent with the existing infrastructure or amenities in the area.
 As far as issues on the property go, I've noted one and alluded to the other, one being zoning nonconformance and the other being infrastructure.
 When it comes to non-conformance, the underlying RA zoning district requires a lot width of 200 feet. These three parcels each have approximately 140 feet, so they don't meet the current zoning that they're designated with today. RSF4 is the smallest increment that would allow these properties to be brought into conformance by applying a 100-foot lot width requirement.
 Similarly, in lot area, RA requires a lot to have two acres in size, where these properties range from about 1.5 acres to 1.8 acres. The RSF2 zoning district would bring them into conformance by allowing half acre lots.
 And the second item, sanitary sewer access, I already noted that Dot Tipton is a fairly undersized street, but it also doesn't have any access to sanitary sewer. And that was an item that was discussed at the Planning Commission. There were several commissioners questioning what it would look like if these properties were to be redeveloped.
 As it is, there's a two part consideration. First, our engineering division on behalf of our utility department evaluates the feasibility of extending existing sanitary sewer lines in the area to this property. And if they're not eligible, or if they don't fall within approximately our 200 to 300 foot range that we consider to be feasible and proportional to the project's impact,
 They have to submit their plans to ADH, the Arkansas Department of Health, to evaluate whether the property meets adequate standards to support a septic system. There's elements like percolation within that septic system to ensure it can function properly.
 So, with those issues in mind, staff ultimately recommended in favor of this. We feel that it is important to bring the properties into some degree of zoning conformance, acknowledging that they're already developed at the highest level of development that they can be under the RSF2 zoning district. The Planning Commission felt similarly. The only item they discussed at length was that septic question, and they forwarded it to the City Council unanimously recommending in favor.
 To date, we've not had any public comment either before the commission meeting at it or since and I'm happy to take any questions And mayor hi doma penis is here as the applicant for the item. Okay? Yeah, can I speak for the council? Yeah ten minutes Good evening mayor council I don't really have much more to add. I have done a part and it has passed so That would probably what we would use for sort of so other than that. I mean I
 There's not much I can add, I guess. Okay. All right. What questions does council have for the applicant or the staff? May I have a question for Jonathan? Was this area, I'm talking about the noncompliant lot widths, was this just an area that was annexed and put in RA zoning? Is that how they got into noncompliance?
 That's a good question. I don't know if I can answer that very quickly. I know there was at one point a PZD approved on the adjacent property, and when that expired, staff, as you heard me talk about before, we brought back a tranche or a batch of expired PZDs, and a lot of those referred into their previous zoning designations. In this case, I do not think that PZD extended to these properties. I think they have their RA zoning district from previously approved.
 Let me see if I can answer that accurately very quickly. If you can give me just a moment, please. Yeah, I can confirm it was not part of the PZD adjacent to it that was down zoned from PZD back to its previous RA. And it does look like it's had consistently had this RA zoning district designation since it was annexed in September of 2006. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, I just want to double confirm what I think you said. So if we pass this to RSF2, there are no additional entitlements that come with that. They've essentially, they're conforming now, but there's no additional entitlements with that new designation. Is that accurate? That is correct.
 just as with any time I get this question, there's infinite iterations of what people could do with their property. I think if it was developed in conjunction with an adjoining property, it could be possible that there could be one or two additional lots, but that would require installation of a street. And at that point, the improvements start to escalate to where it doesn't really pencil out in that regard. So I don't wanna say it's impossible, but I don't readily see a scenario where that could happen.
 Thank you. And as a follow-up, are there any additional, if we pass this, are there any additional requirements that the applicant has to undertake? I mean like... Requirements for what? Sidewalk improvements, those kinds of things that oftentimes we request. I'm just trying to understand the full scope. Certainly. Yeah, thank you for the clarification.
 given their potential, or their development potential does not appreciably increase above what they have today, there's very unlikely to be any improvements required.
 The Supreme Court of the United States has repeatedly said that when you are, when a city is attempting to extract or receive improvements from a private developer, it needs to be proportional to the impact of that development. And if you're exchanging a house for a house, there's no proportional increase that could justify sidewalks, street widening, water, sewer, and infrastructure like that. Thanks so much.
 Okay, anybody else? Yeah, Sarah. And mine's maybe more of an education in regard to the public sewer access versus septic. So I don't know if you're the right person, Jonathan, and if there's anybody online in the event. It's better for water and sewer.
 do we have a best practice in the city I would imagine it's not ideal that we'd want most everyone on our public services but that's maybe not feasible so I don't know how many actually in the city of eight little limits are actually on septic and it's very common in the county and and
 following county very closely for a number of years and they're planning you know that's been a bone of contention uh close to waterways especially and so i'm just curious i don't know if i've missed it somewhere if we have a policy or if we have a goal in place as far as adding or subtracting septic that would be within the city of fayetteville that's a good question i certainly want to begin by saying i'm not the best person to speak to it i can't say that ideally
 all properties in the city are on our public sanitary sewer system because that would, that pulls the effluent to our treatment plants. Whereas septic systems not only are point discharge locations for these kind of potential pollutants, but they also represent a higher potential for failure, especially when you have scattered site locations, they're not always well documented.
 There are hundreds, if not more, septic systems within our city limits. Some of those are a result of large annexations we've performed in previous decades, especially once you get through this portion of Fayetteville and further west. But there are also intriguing portions of Fayetteville, not dead in the middle of town, but near the middle of town that are on septic. I think the one that always jumps out of my mind is near Butterfield Elementary.
 There's a street called Strawberry where there are three or four houses that are below adequate elevation to be able to gravity flow up to the sewer line above their houses. So there's a handful of houses in that area that are on septic. And there's instances like that you can find throughout. But I think a general practice and policy is the preference is to have properties on our sanitary sewer system.
 I should note that state law places a closeness requirement before the cities can require you to hook up to a sewer line. And so if you're not within like 300 feet, or I'm not sure if that's exactly the number I'd have to look at again, the city cannot require you to do that unless we have a sewer main that's close enough for you to hook up like that.
 I just had one follow-up was, you know, I look at the map and it looks like this property is maybe a decent distance away from like Owl Creek or Goose Creek. But, I mean, are there any concerns of the potential of adding septic, you know, in these areas too that are near these waterways? Or is that far enough away that that's not a concern? That is even further from my expertise and ability to speak to. No, no need to apologize. We, and I may have gone through it too quickly when I described it.
 The city's role in septic is evaluating whether it's feasible to connect to our sewer system. And once it's determined that it's not feasible, then it fully shifts to the Arkansas Department of Health to evaluate. You have inspectors located in Washington County that come out. There are also private inspectors that come out and do percolation tests that are required to be submitted to the state before a system can be installed. Okay, thank you. You really helped educate me tonight on that. So thank you. I appreciate it. You're welcome.
 Any other questions? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who'd like to address us in the chamber?
 Okay, so does anybody have anything on Zoom? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion would you all like to have or what action would you all like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Averna. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition RZN 2023-26 for approximately 5.27 acres located at 5839 West Dock Tipton Road in Ward 4 from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF2 Residential Single Family, 2 units per acre.
 i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second i have a motion second to go third and final reading jackson please call the row herzberg yes jones yes or yes yes verna yes lunch turk yes in order to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 2023-26 approximately five and a quarter acres located at 5839 west dot dipton road in ward 4.
 from ra residential agricultural to rsf2 residential single family two units per acre on commission council please call the roll hertzberg yes jones yes or yes whedeker yes verna yes bunch turk yes okay thank you all let's go number eight
 an order to resolve that property inscribing the zoning petition rzn 2023-028 for approximately 0.14 acres located at 150 north skyline drive in ward 1 from p1 institutional to nsg neighborhood services chair kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the properties shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from P1, institutional, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. VICE CHAIRMAN HICKS. Jonathan.
 apologies allow me a second here there we are this request takes us just east of the downtown area to what many of you probably think of Mount Sequoia proper it's the area of the Mount Sequoia Center it was originally developed in the 1920s in conjunction with the city and in several infrastructure improvements that were offered by the city to make it feasible
 It operated as a part of the Methodist church for many, many decades. And rather than go very in depth with that, I could skip over about 100 years of history here and brings us to today or generally this year when the the Mount Sequoia Center began to operate, took ownership of the property as a secular events and arts center.
 In discussing their plans for the property with staff earlier this year, the applicants expressed an interest in broadening the uses of the site so they could be much more interactive with the public, bring a wider variety of activities to the property, and a planned zoning district was submitted in earlier 2023.
 This elicited a significant amount of public feedback, which the applicant took very seriously and engaged with residents in the area and ultimately withdrew the PZD in an effort to offer a more targeted proposal for what they're interested in doing immediately.
 which brings us to the applicant's request today, which is to rezone a portion of the 26 acre site, totaling 1.4, excuse me, 0.14 acres from P1 institutional to NSG neighborhood services general. The staff does find the request to be compatible with surrounding land uses
 especially the Mount Sequoia Center itself. There are a wide variety of activities on the property, including residential spaces, activity spaces, art spaces. I think most in Fayetteville are familiar with many of the events that they offer throughout the year and continue to offer under the new ownership.
 The proposed NSG zoning district, neighborhood services general, allows similarly a wide variety of uses but at a very small scale, allowing buildings up to about 8,000 square feet to use as retail, restaurants, coffee shops, and offices.
 Taking a look at it from a long-range planning standpoint, the property's future land use map very clearly is a mirror of the property's history. It's generally been considered an institutional use in the area throughout its history.
 It's difficult to say that the request does or does not necessarily align with that future land use map designation. Uses like the Sequoia Center are seeking to diversify what they do. And ultimately staff feels that the proposal to rezone a very small portion of the property and neighborhood services general is complimentary of that.
 As far as other issues go with the proposal, staff did not find any. Again, we found it to be compatible with the surrounding land uses on the center itself and our long-range plans. There has been quite a bit of public comment over the course of a year, but I think it's important to distinguish between what was made in response to the plan.
 the planned zoning district proposal, which was ultimately withdrawn and the current request. As of this date, the only comments we've received about the proposal to rezone this 1.14 acre site to NSG has been positive with residents expressing support for the proposal.
 With that said, again, staff is recommending in favor. The Planning Commission agreed and forwarded to City Council unanimously, feeling that, similar to staff's assertion, the Neighborhood Services General Zoning District is complementary of existing zoning and land uses on the property. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor Emily Gentry here is here to represent the Mount Sequoia Center. Thank you. Okay, with that, I'd like to speak for the council. You have 10 minutes.
 Yes, thank you very much. I'm Emily Gentry with Mount Sequoia Center. Jonathan did a great job of summarizing as he has done all of the different projects that have come before you today. So thank you, Jonathan. I'm here just to elaborate a little more. Mount Sequoia is seeking this rezoning so that we can open a coffee shop. That's the specific nature of what we are trying to do.
 We are opening it with a third party. The third party would run and operate and manage the coffee shop which is why we came to this point of needing to rezone. If Mount Sequoia were to do it ourselves it would be part of the institutional nature of what we do but working with a third party.
 necessitated moving in this direction. So that's why we've done this. There are lots of details to still work out, but we're excited to have something to hold people here at Mount Sequoia while they're coming for a variety of activities. We're noticing that artists are
 using their studio space and wanting something to do during the day. Guests want coffee, things of that nature. So the goal is to get people to Mount Sequoia and keep them there as long as possible. Not to mention the iconic overlook, giving people a reason to come inside the center, telling that story and that narrative that we want the community to engage with us. We're not, we're no longer a Methodist institution, but we are still a non-profit, which means we still need to serve the community in a variety of ways. This coffee shop and this
 A rezoning request is all part of that plan. I'd love to answer any questions that you might have, but thank you for listening to our application. Okay, what questions do we have from the council for the African arts staff? I have a question, Mayor. So thank you for bringing this forward. I guess my question is,
 You know, it's hard to see on the map which actual structure the coffee shop would be in and if there's a plan to expand or if this request would allow expansion past the coffee shop.
 Great question, thank you. It is specifically for the Ozark building on Mount Sequoia's campus as well as the rock patio area in front of that building. So we had surveyors come in and give us the exact outline of the existing building structure as well as that patio area. There are no plans to encompass the patio area with building. We want to work within the existing framework of the structure. I know that some
 These are likely going to be in the building permit process so I can't speak specifically but we do need to upgrade the power to the building to be able to, because right now it's split between two buildings, so if the coffee shop were to want to cook items in the space, the power is going to need to be upgraded. The roof needs to be redone and the HVAC system needs to be replaced. So that's why we're working with a third party entity. Those are the issues that the entity is looking at fixing, not expanding the footprint.
 front of the building. It's the old gift center. So if anyone is familiar with Mount Sequoia, it's a mid-century modern building that has a glass front and it is on the historic registry of spaces. And so the plan is to not take it from contributing to non-contributing as part of Mount Sequoia's historic district. Thank you for answering all that. That's great. Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public. For any council member, please stay on topic. Give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom, those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. I don't believe we have anybody in the chamber. So do you have anybody on Zoom? Yes, sir. OK. I'm going to bring this back to the council. This is an ordinance.
 So what action would you all like to take? What discussion would you all like to have? Mayor Jordan, I would like to move that we suspend the rules. Okay. Second. We have a motion and a second. We're going to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Pittsburgh. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes.
 Yes Yes lunch Yes And your it's a reason the property is cried and rezoning petition RCN 2023 dash 28 for approximately point 1 4 acres located at 150 North Skyline Drive and Ward 1 from P1 institutional to NSG neighborhood services general and
 Mayor Jordan, I would like for us to suspend the room for the second reading. Well, we're on the third. You need to make the motion for the third reading, . I'm sorry. I would like to make the motion for the third reading. OK. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Jackson, please call the roll. Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Turner. Yes. Bunch.
 Turk yes in order to rezone that property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 2023-28 for approximately 0.14 acres located at 150 North Skyline Drive in Ward 1 From P1 institutional to NSG neighborhood services general any phone comments from the council
 Yes, I just wanted to say thank you for explaining the project and as a longtime resident of Fayetteville I think that the Mouth Pops Aquarius Center has been an incredible treasure And so it's exciting to see like these new things that have been happening And new ways for our community to be involved in that space. So thank you. Okay anything else? Hertzberg yes Jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Kirk? Yes. Okay, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? We don't have anything else? If I may, I've been asked to remind the community that we have board and commission vacancies at this time. The deadline to apply is Monday, November the 27th. And...
 The city's website is one source, our television channel is another source, and to remind people that the new Fayetteville Youth Council Advisory Council is also accepting applications. So the public is reminded. It's not a separate application? It is a separate application. So apply for anything you want to apply for, go to the website, call the mayor, get those applications in.
 We've got a budget tomorrow. We've got a budget tomorrow. It is in here. I'm sorry. I meant to announce that. Thank you, Scott. It is here in this room at 4.30. And Paul's got a schedule from 4.30 until? 8.30. 8.30. Do we have a Zoom option? Oh, I'm sure you do. I'm sure you do. All right. Nothing else. Thank you all. We're adjourned.