I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of November the 2nd, 2021. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Here. Kirk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Jones. Kenyon? Here. Scroggins? Present. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight under presentations is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Paul. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Since I was not here for the agenda session, I'll just give you a quick update on sales tax. I'm sure the Mayor mentioned the good news on sales tax we have, but these are the sales taxes for the month of September.
 The city was up ten point eight percent compared to prior year county was up 19 percent That puts us at about fifteen and a half percent up Compared to last year so our budget numbers are very good When we compare them because if you remember I actually lowered some of the increases because I had expected a downturn Happily that didn't happen for us when I look at the sales tax in
 Retail trade on the internet was up 10%. If we remember last time, it was essentially flat. So we're climbing again there a bit. Nonessential goods were up strong, as all retail trade was. Accommodations and food services were up 25%.
 for the period. So we had some very strong gains in accommodation, food services, and retail trade. That helped carry our sales tax to where it was which was very strong for the month of September. Remember that's three quarters of the year that we're analyzing at this point in time. Now let's go on to the monthly report in total and how we're looking. Again as I mentioned the sales tax are up about 15.5 percent
 compared to last year. Franchise fees are up in the 3% range. Alcoholic beverages are up.
 over 20% compared to last year. Building permits are coming back very strong. They're up about 18% now compared to last year. Charges for services are flat. Remember, we had some major declines in some of our fees for services provided, but they're now flat for the year.
 Court fees and fines are still down. They're down 26%. Interests are down. Interest rates are very low. They're down over 30%. And court fees and fines are down roughly 25%. However, that's far offset by the total revenue coming in from other sources. All in all, we're 13%
 up compared to prior year of total revenue in the general fund at this point in time. So we're in good shape moving into the budget season. Streets. The street half-cent sales tax statewide was very strong, up to 18% last month. Wholesale gas taxes are extremely strong. They're up 60%.
 compared to last year. So the total revenue in the street fund is up roughly 18% at this point in time. People are out traveling. They're taking the opportunity to travel a bit. And it's showing very much in the gas taxes and the turnbacks coming from motor fuel tax, et cetera. Parking fund was up 6%.
 Fines are up 13% for parking. So in total, the parking fund is up 6% compared to last year. Remember, it has been very, very soft, so we're starting to look much better as citizens are returning to some of the venues for their foods and entertainment. HMR taxes were up 28%.
 So they're showing very strong again demonstrating the increases that we're seeing, foods, accommodations, and things of that nature. So that's very strong. Again, the HMR funds, that's park development funds, and goes to fund maintenance of the parks. Trash and recycling and trash.
 is actually up about 3% compared to the budget estimate at this point in time. Remember, we've essentially been flat up to this point in time, so that's coming back a bit. Remember, residential trash collection and fees have been up throughout the year. Commercial has been down quite a bit. We're seeing commercial start to pick up again, which is showing more business activity.
 Water and sewer billings are up 10% at this point in time compared to last year. So they're very strong. Airport revenue. Airport revenue is up 12% compared to the budget. However, remember we revised the budget, got more gasoline in. If we actually compared the gallonage to last year, we're almost double. We're almost selling almost double the gas. So that's very good news at the airport.
 Things look very, very positive now heading into the final quarter of the year. I expect the year to close out very, very strong. I don't see anything out there that's going to significantly change things. Hopefully, we'll have a positive last quarter. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the finance report? Thank you, Paul. Thank you. Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is consent agenda. Okay.
 number one approval of the october 19th 2021 city council meeting minutes number two resolution to approve a change order to the contract with midland industrial services llc for the additional services on on the nolan water resource recovery facility electrical upgrade project any amount of one thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars and forty four cents
 Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of a million dollars for the purchase water account due to increased water usage. Number four, a resolution to approve amendment number eight to the contract with Environmental Consulting Operations Incorporated in the amount of $65,500 for wetlands mitigation site monitoring and management in 2022.
 Number five, a resolution to approve an agreement with Washington Water Authority to provide customer usage information. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 21-64 and authorize the purchase of a water pump for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility from Bertram Products, Inc., in the amount of $38,528.45 plus split taxes.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve a one-year renewal of the ozone equipment service contract with Pinnacle Ozone Solutions, LLC, in the amount not to exceed $24,920 for the ozone disinfection system at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 21-36 and authorize a one-year contract with
 aircrebs two lcdba elite building solutions for hvac services on an on-call basis with automatic renewals for up to four additional years number nine a resolution to award bid number 21-72 and to authorize the contract with comfort systems usa arkansas incorporated for plumbing services on an on-call basis
 for a term of one year with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms. Number 10, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2021 Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality grant through the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District in the amount of $8,000 for the purchase of recycling dollies and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 11,
 A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $31,575.16 recognizing revenue from Walk-On Properties LLC and to authorize a payment to the Arkansas Department of Transportation in the amount of $31,575.16 for construction of a 400-foot section of shallow trail. Number 12. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $60,000 for the purchase of additional
 100 LL fuel through the end of 2021. Number 13, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2021 Justice Assistance Grant in total amount of $54,909, which will be used to purchase law enforcement training and equipment for the Federal Police Department and the Washington County Sheriff's Office and to improve budget adjustments.
 Number 14, a resolution to approve the per capita jail fee agreement with Washington County for jail services in 2022 in the amount of $76,421.40.
 15. A resolution to authorize acceptance of a matching grant award from the 2021 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program in the amount of $11,999.70 for the replacement of body armor vests for outfitting new officers for federal police officers and to approve budget adjustments.
 16. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment reappropriating funds in the amount of $10,000 from the Fleet Shop Expansion Project to the Fleet Office Expansion Project. 17. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $117,000 for the purchase of additional fleet fuel through the end of 2021.
 Number 18, a resolution to authorize the purchase of video security networking equipment, software, and services from authorized resellers pursuant to a TIPS cooperative purchasing contract.
 on an as-needed basis through July 31st, 2024 and any future renewal periods. Number 19, a resolution to approve change order number five to the contract with Nelson Baird and Walz LLC in the amount of $395,009 to provide professional landscape architecture services for the early package of the Upper Ramble
 additional construction administration services for the lower ramble and the cultural arts corridor bond project and to prove the budget adjustment I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read we have a motion a second to accept the consent agenda is read care would you please call the roll bench yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones
 Jones. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to unfinished business. Number one.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-065 located at 481 South Happy Hollow Road for approximately .51 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Bunch? Yes. Sorry. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-065 located at 481 South Happy Hollow Road for approximately 0.51 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre. John.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kirk with the City's Development Services Department. I don't have any new information on the request, but I did want to briefly summarize what was before the council. Again, the property is southeast of downtown Fayetteville.
 It's on the southeast slope of Mount Sequoia, on the west corner of 5th Street, Happy Hollow. The applicant is, despite what this slide shows, I apologize for that, is requesting to rezone the property from RSF 4, as it is a single-family four-unit breaker, to RSF 18. There was a tour held yesterday. Unfortunately, I was not able to attend. I did get to confer with the planners on the site, and for those council members not able to attend,
 uh there were several main themes it sounded like were discussed at the tour those included concerns about traffic volumes particularly along happy hollow and their speeds and also concerns about the safety of the intersection further south where happy hollow intersects with huntsville road
 There's also concern about the availability on parking. Happy Hollow does not currently allow it. And it sounds like several residents were concerned that if it allowed added density on this piece of property, guests would need to park in other areas, particularly 5th Street, which may not have enough for this property plus the adjacent properties to use on street parking.
 Another topic that was discussed was the disconnected sidewalk in the area. There were concerns that inadequate city resources had been put into this part of Fayetteville. Specifically there is a gap north of this property along Happy Hollow Road, about 1,000 feet, which would connect this property to eventually reach up all the way to Happy Hollow Elementary to the northeast and Pounce-a-Coye Park further to the north.
 One item that was discussed and posted by the council received yesterday and at the tour
 was the interest in having a neighborhood master plan. From my read of the public comments and from what I heard about the tour, there are concerns among neighbors that the neighborhood is changing. It may not be the ways that the existing residents would like to see it go. And there were curiosity expressed about that a master plan is an opportunity. And lastly, again, this was also noted that some public comment heard by the council
 was some disagreement or concern about the proposed house designs, how those relate to the existing homes in the area, specifically on an architectural level. I do feel it is important to remind the city council that a lot of municipalities ability to regulate single family home design was preempted by the state of Arkansas.
 a few years ago, so we do have very limited capacity to dictate or set standards for what single family homes can look like anywhere in the city.
 And lastly, again, I alluded to it, we have received some public comments since the last meeting. Yesterday, we noted that they were in favor of the request, but did have concerns about the city's infrastructure keeping up with the ability of, or the infrastructure keeping up with the growth in this area, in particular in South Fayetteville at large.
 As a reminder as well about the recommendation, staff is in favor of the request and the Planning Commission as well. It was forwarded unanimously to the City Council recommending approval. The commissioners who commented on it felt it encouraged appropriate design by allowing all the units to face on the happy hollow, be loaded from Fifth Street, which is a lower volume street when it comes to vehicle traffic.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And please encourage the council members who attended the tour to add anything that I may have overlooked. Thanks. So, okay. What questions do we have for the staff from the council? Okay. And Mayor, I believe Jay Young is still the representative for this item. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? Okay. What questions do we have for the city council for the staff?
 Okay, well, let's take a little public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, which is the rezoning. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom?
 Susanna Brennan. OK, go ahead. Susanna, can you unmute, please? Now, is that better? Yes. Yes. Thank you. So if you'll allow me to find my notes, which have disappeared when I unmuted. Oh, well. So you all are familiar. And by the way, do I have five minutes, Mayor, or two minutes and something?
 She asked how much time. You have five minutes. You have five minutes, three minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes. Okay. So, how...
 For those of you who were at the meeting yesterday, the tour, I think you have a better idea of our concerns because as we stood there watching the traffic zoom by on Happy Hollow, it goes an average of about 45 miles an hour up to 60 miles an hour in a 25-mile zone.
 It's a dangerous corner. The slope, Mount Sequoia, allows water to rush past. The stormwater drain at that corner, Fifth and Happy Hollow, is inadequate. The main, Water Main, up the road a couple of houses, breaks periodically and floods our front yards.
 In addition, that's where the school bus stop is. On that dangerous corner, we've seen many cars slide back down the hill in winter conditions. They're trying to turn left from Happy Hollow onto Fifth Street. In addition, we believe RSF 18 would take many of the old trees on this property. That's part of the neighborhood character is the shade and the pleasantness of the neighborhood.
 So we're a humble neighborhood. We have many retired families, many retired families raising kids, excuse me, families raising kids, renters and owners. We're concerned about what these buildings are going to be like and we're especially concerned about density, making for so much more traffic onto Fifth Street and onto eventually Happy Hollow.
 No one dares park on Happy Hollow. There's simply no parking there. No one, very few people are allowed to park on the street. It's already pretty full. So we just believe that RSF 18 is too much. We would recommend that the council look into RSF neighborhood, excuse me, neighborhood conservation or retaining RSF 4. Keep it safe.
 and to keep the density down. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I don't see anyone else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Yes, sir. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Evelyn Ria Stafford, and I live at 527 South Sherman, which is a block away from this property. And I am...
 You know, I think while I'm in favor of this rezoning, I think that some of my neighbors have brought up some very valid concerns concerning traffic and speeding along Happy Hollow Road and also issues with stormwater in this area. And I think that the city I would love for the city of Fayetteville to kind of take a look at I think what a lot of my neighbors feel is um, um,
 what's sort of a forgotten part of town in a way. We have issues with sidewalk connectivity. The sidewalk for example there's there's gaps where there's no sidewalk up Happy Hollow Road. You know if the sidewalk was finished we could from our neighborhood walk directly to the trailhead at Mount Sequoia and right now you can't do that unless you take this long meandering route you know
 through the neighborhood. It would be, it might be, speeding is definitely an issue on Happy Hollow. It might be good to have the city look into putting an all-way stop at Fifth Street and Happy Hollow at that intersection or to do some other measures to help calm the traffic in the area. I think these are really, these are valid issues. These are real things.
 You know the stormwater is definitely an issue as well. I don't think it's necessarily reason to deny the rezoning But I think these other issues definitely need to be addressed as well this intersection I think it's great for encouraging transit alternatives or getting people out of their cars it sits right in between two RRT bus stops and
 And the school bus stop is just right in front of the property right there. It'd be nice to have a sidewalk there so the kids aren't standing on a grassy slope that sometimes maybe gets muddy when it rains. So it'd be great for the city to finish that sidewalk, have a place for the kids to stand when they're waiting for the bus.
 But I think it's a really appropriate intersection for families to be able to do things like if they have elementary school kids, it's a 15 minute walk to Happy Hollow. Potentially the parents, if they have young kids, wouldn't have to drive the kids to school. They could walk the kids to school through residential streets. So that would be nice.
 And regardless of whether this gets rezoned or not, there's a bunch of vacant locks in our neighborhood that that you know people may eventually probably will build on regardless of whether they get rezoned or not, those are buildable lots and if they do you know that's going to increase traffic even if this rezoning doesn't go through and so I think the the speeding issue needs to be addressed
 one way or another regardless of what decision you make tonight um thank you very much thank you anyone else like to address this that's in the chamber do we have any anybody outside the chamber that not that signed up for this item mayor i have some people who've signed up for other items okay all right then i'm going to close public comment i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wishes of the council this is an ordinance it's on the the
 Second reading what discussion or action items with the council architect? Well Mayor Jordan and City Council I had the opportunity of going over yesterday to Happy Hollow and meeting and talking with the residents and their concerns are legitimate and if you don't mind I would like to share comments from.
 Beverly Larry, and she writes, I moved to this neighborhood in June 2006. Thanks.
 My daughters and I were the youngest on the block at the time. The neighborhood mainly consisted of older people who had been in this neighborhood for years, raising their families long before I was even born. My next door neighbor at the time was in his 90s. This great neighborhood had so much wisdom and love and has been a great place to raise my two daughters. Over the years, most of my old neighbors have passed away or moved away, and new people have come into the neighborhood.
 Each person on Happy Hollow knows one another, and we look out for one another, and we protect our neighborhood. This rezoning bothers me because I know that it's developers that are looking to come in and make a profit. They could care less of what it means to the neighbors or the neighborhood. If the developers' intentions were good, we would have seen the exact plans by now. Yesterday, during the tour, I heard one of the developers say,
 that they didn't seem to have any concrete answers to several questions concerning the rezoning. Also, the developers have heard from the people in this neighborhood and they continue to press forward in doing what they want to do.
 They don't care how it will affect the people who live here and the people who've called this street home for many years. Every time a concern came on the tour yesterday regarding the rezoning, the residents were redirected to different departments. To me, the tour yesterday only happened as a formality. It happened so it could be said that they came out and listened to the residents.
 There was no meeting of the minds and many of us left still feeling unheard. We have serious and pressing issues on this street that need to be addressed even if a rezoning wasn't taking place. This is a very high traffic area and they could be seen at the tour yesterday. Not only is it a high traffic area, but people speed through here daily making it unsafe and a hazard to its residents.
 The city's only remedy has been two speed tables years ago that haven't helped or worked. We have children that live on this street, and the bus stop on the corner of 5th and Happy Hollow Road has become more and more dangerous. This street is hazardous in the winter months. It's no longer safe to back out of our driveways now due to the traffic, and I've heard almost everyone.
 been rear-ended too many times to count turning in my driveway. Adding multiple housing would only make this problem worse. Water remains and flooding is also a huge issue on Happy Hollow Road. Anytime it rains, we can expect flooding and drainage issues. Last Thursday, I found my mailbox laying in my ditch full of water. I thought someone had hit it again because it's been hit at least eight times since I moved here by traffic.
 The reason my mailbox failed this time was the result of all the water mains that have broken over the years and Flooding that simply washed all of the dirt away at least three if not more of those water mains Breaks have happened in the ditch in front of my home I'm sure if you did a quick search you would see the exact number of water main breaks that have happened on Happy Hollow Road throughout the years
 This latest water main broke about a month ago on this street. The residents on Happy Hollow Road have been told by the city of Fayetteville that the water mains are very old. This problem will continue to happen unless it is properly addressed. Instead of placing a band-aid over each time it happens, the rezoning would...
 would add to this existing problem. Parking is also a big concern because we don't want any parking on the street. It's already an unsafe situation regarding all of the traffic that comes through FAST daily. And if parking is allowed on the street, that would just be an accident waiting to happen. Parking would need to be on the property only.
 We're also talking about affordable housing to have a more diverse community that reflects the changing times, and I don't see that happening with the rezoning. We all know the developers are trying to turn a profit and they couldn't directly answer our questions regarding the price of the structures they're trying to build. Happy Hollow Road consists of single family homes and we would like to keep it that way.
 The rezoning would disrupt that. Yesterday a city individual that was on the tour said once the rezoning was approved and they realized what they said and quickly changed it to if the rezoning is approved. This person has presented themselves to be neutral, but it's very clear they're not.
 This isn't the first time the residents of Happy Hollow Road have faced this kind of opposition. Last year we faced the same opposition, but the residents and developers found a common ground. There are some empty lots in old abandoned homes on Happy Hollow Road. Will the residents have to face the same issue again if any new developer comes in, purchases the property, and does whatever it is they want to do without considering how it would affect the neighbors and neighborhood as a whole?
 Just a few years ago, the residents of Rolling Hills were faced with the city of Fayetteville wanting to widen or expand their street. This city was met with opposition from the residents, and in the end, the residents were heard. This has also happened in other areas in Fayetteville. Why were they heard, and why aren't the residents of Happy Hollow Road being heard? Thank you.
 At the end of the day, no one will be affected by the decisions being made except the residents of Happy Hollow Road. We're the ones who have to live here. The developers don't have to live here, and neither does the city council. I believe if they did, we wouldn't even be having this discussion. Thanks for your time. Sincerely, a very concerned resident of Happy Hollow Road, Beverly Larry. Thank you, Mayor Jordan. Okay.
 what other discussion do we have from the council or action items uh yeah one thing I'd like to mention uh there's you know some of the comments have been made um you know
 First of all, there was a lot of discussion that went on in Rowan Hills. And I think the mayor and some of the city staff were present at those meetings. And it didn't just happen. It didn't just, we didn't listen to people elsewhere. There was a whole lot of discussion in that community. And that community kind of organized itself and...
 And, you know, we had several meetings with lots of people, so it just didn't happen that way. And there's another thing, like there were comments about, you know, about maybe having a stop sign there.
 And, you know, I believe, you know, it was kind of a misstatement made by someone that they thought we had to have, that the neighbors had to get together and have 70% of the neighborhood agree to have a stop sign. And that's not the case. You know, we can put a stop sign, but we need to do a traffic study if the...
 Things like some of the complaints, like if you say that the speed tables aren't working, then maybe we need to reevaluate the speed tables. That's a possibility, too. You know, we could reevaluate the speed tables. Maybe they need to be placed differently. They're old. You know, we don't have the same standard for that now that we did 10 or 15 years ago. Okay.
 And the stop sign, you know, we need to do a traffic study, and usually they're put on streets where the traffic is a similar volume on each street. You know, if we put stop signs everywhere to try and slow down traffic, then people don't pay attention to the stop signs. And I can say that happens in my neighborhood all the time, you know, where there's a place where two streets kind of come together at a V and –
 Someone got a stop sign put in 15 years ago and no one ever stops at the stop sign. They just look over their shoulder and keep on going, you know. So that's not really creating a safe environment either. So I think there's several things that can be done. And I understand the exasperation of people in the neighborhood and feeling like you can't get the right person or the right information at the right time to answer your questions. I really understand that.
 But I think we can look at this in a different approach than just to say we don't want this development or we don't want any rezoning because someone, you know, what is it zoned now, Jonathan? RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre. So...
 Someone could put one of the complaints was we don't want just gigantic houses built on these lots. And someone could build a very large home there instead of four smaller homes. And they could cut down every tree on the lot, basically, you know, and not have to. I mean, and just build one home.
 So I think we need to, you know, we need to work at with our citizens and work at educating them on the way things work.
 happen in the city and the way they, you know, so that they don't have that frustration or if it is frustrating, then we come out and we try to fix our side of it, like to make it easier for people to understand and to, to work with us. But I don't think it's that the city's not listening or not trying to work with, with the people in this area. I just, I just don't believe that, but I think we can, I think we can always improve. And, uh, you know, I, I,
 I just, that's my 50 cents there. Sorry. Okay. What other discussion do we have? I'd like to say a few words. I understand the neighborhood also. I'm real familiar with this property. I was trying to think. I remember as far back as 1962 being out there at
 Ma and Pa Hopkins Place, and it was out in the woods. I picked up a lot of ticks and chairs out there over the years. You know, they had a very modest home back there, and they would be so upset at what's there now. I know they would. Change is inevitable. It would be nice if it were preserved, as I remember, back in the 60s, but it isn't.
 The point I'm making is we, I will support this with caution. We must keep an eye on traffic and we must keep an eye on safety. And as we move forward, I predict that there will be a strong neighborhood association develop because they have already united around a cause. So the foundation for that is, is present. And with that voice, I,
 Hopefully, as it is being improved and developed, there can be a voice to protect the safety and the traffic and other things that are important to this neighborhood. It's, you know, a big change since 1962, I'll tell you that, and a big change for the neighborhood as we move forward. So I have a lot of empathy for people who live there.
 And I have a lot of thoughts for mom, Paul Hopkins, that lived out there. So I will be supporting this. Sorry, I don't have a camera tonight, but I guess I got a question for John. That as is at 0.51 acres, would we be able to build two houses and two ADUs?
 From the survey I've seen that the applicant submitted with their theoretical lot split, it does appear that they could split it into two lots, which would allow two houses and two, at least two AUs, yes. Okay, so we're basically at four now. Okay.
 And in that case, it would probably almost be more like multifamily because you have somebody in the front and then they're probably renting it out to somebody in the back like an Airbnb or something of that nature. I'm not asking you to speculate. I am. Okay.
 So I know that there's some hatred of a multifamily, somehow the people that live in multifamily just aren't as family as other people. I really have issues with that, especially on something that we're going from single family to single family. So that argument wouldn't even hold here. I think this is a reasonable increase in.
 You know, given the fact that we could do 280 use now, I don't think we would build four houses and four 80 use that be almost impossible to fit there. But I think this is reasonable. We have just a massive housing crisis. Um, you know, when I look at the price of houses around here, like it's it's
 It's mind blowing and it's not because the houses we're building now are expensive and it's causing old houses be expensive. No, there's just so many people that want to move here that the needle's moving up. We just don't have enough supply to meet the demand. So I see us going from basically two units to four units or in this case, four to four, depending on how you splice it. This seems like a reasonable increase. Yeah.
 especially given the housing crisis. And I don't think this is driving, you know, these new houses aren't driving house prices. And I know some people say, you know, we want to build affordable. Well, you just have to build houses. If you've got theoretically 11 families that want to move in houses and you've got 10 houses, well, the price goes up until that 11th person can't be here or they're homeless. Right.
 So we need houses. I would love to save the trees, but as mentioned before, we can put one house here and take down every tree. And unfortunately, that happens. So I'll be in support of this. So Jonathan, Sloan brings up a really good point about the ADUs that...
 But it's my understanding that if they divided it into two lots, they could build two houses and two ADUs in the back, but couldn't they also have an attached ADU? Under the current accessory dwelling unit ordinance, you have 1,200 square feet to play with, which can be split between one attached ADU, one detached ADU, or one of each, just for conversation's sake, at 600 square feet each. Okay. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. I'd like to make a few comments. I went on the tour yesterday. Thank you to everybody for coming out and voicing their opinion and their perspective.
 It was really enlightening, I thought, because this neighborhood has kind of been forgotten, and we really need to pay some attention to it, irrespective of this rezoning. I looked at the lots and talked to the developer and what they proposed, and frankly, I think this is too dense. I would be much more in support of RSF-8,
 I think RSF 18 is too much for this neighborhood. This neighborhood is very modest, is working class, and it's incompatible or really changed the character of that neighborhood. So I listen to the neighbors. I review the documents, and I will not be supporting this development. I think it's too much for this neighborhood at this time. Any other discussion?
 Yes, um, Mayor Jordan and Council, uh, I appreciate the residents of Happy Hollow advocating for their street. And as I mentioned earlier, I was there yesterday as well, and the speeding, stormwater issues
 connectivity, they're all challenges. And I'm just hoping that we're able to address these issues, the safety issues, sooner rather than later. This is really complex for me because the residents have really spoke out, but we do certainly, there is a housing crisis here and that can't be denied. But I do believe that
 I think that there is an opportunity for the city to really, really take a closer look at the needs of Happy Hollow and also create an opportunity for additional housing.
 Because we're needing more housing, I'm inclined to support this, but also I'm wanting to make sure that moving forward that the residents of Happy Hollow don't feel that they're forgotten. And I think that this is the perfect opportunity for us to make sure that they have the resources, that they have that these challenges such as speeding and storm water connectivity and other issues that have been deemed as safety issues, that we address them as quickly as possible.
 I have another question for staff. Jonathan, on the sidewalk issue that was brought up, what, where, there's a thousand foot gap in the sidewalk, correct? To the north on Happy Hollow, yes. Okay, and does, what would that, what would that gap be filling in, what would it go to to fill in, I guess what I'm asking?
 I think I understand there's a subdivision to the north. I think it's I think a tree tops, I think is its name up towards Acacia Crossing. There is there was sidewalk installed with that on the west side of Happy Hollow and if the connection was made, we connect this neighborhood, the Huntsville area north to the park, Mount Square Park there and eventually tie back into Happy Hollow to the northeast
 And ultimately create a loop up through the cliffs, I believe, but I'm not intimately familiar with their sidewalk network, theoretically back to crossover. So it would give, you know, it would give people a better way to get to the other, to the park and to the another extended part of the trail system. What about, you know, would it help with kids going to school and things like that? Would it be beneficial in that regard?
 I can't speak to it. I mean, that is a fair distance. I don't know how many people would be comfortable with their kids walking to school there. Yeah, I'm not confident enough speaking to that, despite being a parent. I don't know if I'd let my kid walk alone that far as a small child. That makes sense, you know, so.
 um that's something you know having gaps like that is something that really is i don't i don't like the idea of having something over here that you might want to go to but you can't get to because of a thousand feet of sidewalk you know or you have to you know maneuver around or go along the road or something so that's something that really concerns me um i had a little bit one of the things that was brought up at the meeting yesterday that
 I've had trying to do a little bit of research on is how do you develop a master plan for your neighborhood?
 You know, so that's something that there's, you know, there's several, you know, I've talked with staff about some of the different plans that we have and how much work has gone into them. And some are less intensive and some are more intensive. And I think, you know, if people are going to talk about having a master plan for their neighborhood, you know, we need to know and see if we need to work that out with them somehow. But.
 But that's going to take a lot of organization from the neighborhood there. So I don't want them to lose hope that they can ever get that, but they're just getting started with their official being organized. Yeah.
 I would encourage that neighborhood to continue with their efforts and continue to organize and find out what they actually want for their neighborhood. They're not quite there yet. They know what they don't want.
 They don't want this development, but what do they actually want? And when you really sit down and start thinking about that and really working through all of those issues, a lot can be determined in a neighborhood, and it gives the neighborhood much more focus. Quick question, Jonathan, would this neighborhood be included if we did the Walker Park Master Plan, or is this too far east?
 It falls outside the Walker Park plan area. Okay, so what kind of plan would it fall into or would it have to be a new plan?
 I think as council member Bunch alluded to that can take a lot of different shapes. Walker Park is one of the more intensive ones the city has ever done. That covered a very large area of land as well. Some of the council may recall there was a much more small scale one that was done south of 15th Street, just south of Pinnacle Foods, the Parksdale Center neighborhood more recently. So it's a lot of work to do.
 I think Councilmember Bunch is on point that the first question is what does the neighborhood want for itself? If it's, and it may be something that a plan or zoning or the city's tools that are available can address,
 It could be possible that it could be things that could be addressed under currently available resources if it is a question of traffic calming. I don't mean to be reductive. It doesn't sound like that's the only issue here, but just to give an example, I think defining more what the neighborhood's interests are is certainly the first step to figuring out what the city could do to support them.
 Thanks. And then I think my last question is, I know we recently changed the tree requirements. So what will be the tree requirements currently? And then what will they be with 18?
 Under RSF4, currently it is a 25% minimum tree canopy requirement. I think a portion of this property is in the HHOD. It's slipping my mind. I apologize. If it is, that increases that minimum by 5%. If it is, but if it were rezoned, that changes it from a 25% canopy to 20% minimum canopy
 And depending on the level of development on it, I know the council's used to thinking in terms of single family and two family versus everything else.
 our tree preservation standards now are based more on The amount of impervious area proposed like driveways rooftops things of that nature So it could be that tree preservation requirements do kick in as low as 6,000 square feet of imperviousness on the property which I Cannot comfortably say whether that would or would not be the case here, but with four homes and associated driveways. It's a possibility Thank you I
 Jonathan is it always it is possible when uh building a driveway there's several um there's some homes around the area I mean I can't remember exactly where they are where they've used like the I don't know what you call it but when I was growing up we had the driveway that had two strips of concrete and then it was just
 grass and gravel in the middle there. It's, you know, kind of old-fashioned driveway, not paving the entire driveway. And there's also products where you put in the ground that, you know, give some support underneath so you're not just parking on mud, but they also
 Allow the water to drain down into the ground instead of running off. So I think there's you know, if we work with people and Developers I think there's ways that we can kind of cut down on that impervious surface Maybe not from rooftops, but as far as paved areas, I think we can kind of work on that a little bit maybe Sorry was that a question?
 I don't know what that was, honestly. Yeah, I mean, the way the stormwater ordinance was revised was intended to incentivize less imperviousness. So the more impact you're having, the more you have to do as a developer. Okay, thank you for bringing that full circle there for me.
 What's the process of addressing traffic calming and sidewalks? Because that's the biggest issue, and I think that that's one of the issues that if I can say both sides agree on, then that's what both sides agree on. And so I would like to know how soon can we get that moving? Well, first of all, let me just say a couple things here. First of all, we have a street committee that meets every two weeks. Okay.
 And there was a lot of times that we would bring neighborhood issues to the street committee. And a lot of times the neighborhood would come in and speak to the street committee. You have that. You have the Water and Sewer Committee that looks at a lot of the drainage issues. So there's a lot of things in place. I mean, the street committee also looked at traffic calming. The street committee, it's not street committee anymore, but
 Transportation Committee. Transportation Committee. Thank you, Susan. But we would look at these kind of issues, how it stops signs. That's another thing that the Transportation Committee looks at. Where the sidewalks go. That's another thing that the Transportation Committee and...
 So these needs are brought to the council members who, and there's a council member from each ward on the Transportation Committee that can voice their concerns. And when they vote on sidewalks or stop signs or traffic calming, that's when the Transportation Committee gets active and they go, okay, this next year we need to do this and this and this and this area. Thank you, Mayor Jordan. You're welcome.
 so it's not like there's not a process for people to be hurt what other comments might we have from the council meetings now we're on the second reading everybody so i you know we're going to have to advance it to the reading so right now we're on the second reading so is is there any other discussion or action items the council would like to take i think we suspend the rules and go to the very final reading the rules and move to the
 Third and final reading. Second. Second. OK, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggin. Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-065 located at 481 south happy hole road for approximately half an acre from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf 18 residential single family 18 units per acre okay what final comments do we have from the council anything okay care would you please call the roll thanks yes turk no
 Hertzberg yes, or be no Jones No Canyon yes Scroggins. Yes That's four to three Four from these four affirmative. So mayor do you care to vote on this both council members from that particular war voted? No, correct, and I'm not gonna vote. All right, then the resolution are the ordinance fails and land is not rezoned Okay
 Let's go on to new business. Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-070 located at 796 North 54th Avenue for approximately 1.01 acres from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family 4 units per acre to RMF6 Residential Multifamily 6 units per acre. Excuse me, I want to change my vote.
 I want to vote yes on that rezoning and the prior one. I want to reconsider. Yeah, probably need to make a motion to reconsider, but actually it would...
 Yeah. Yeah, you actually voted no, so you can do a motion to reconsider at this point in time. I would like to do a motion. Well, somebody else would have to do that, correct? I move we reconsider. Second. Thank you all. So we need to vote on the reconsideration? Yes. Okay. Carriage Police, Calderon. Are we voting to reconsider or are we voting? Yes, we are.
 we're voting just as whether or not it will be reconsidered yes Turk no Hertz bird yes RV yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes
 okay the motion has now been reconsidered so we're right back to where we were before we voted and i don't know if there wants to be we would need to do a whole revote mayor okay and normally um after listening to everything there is a process that the neighborhood can go through to get before this council um i um
 So after a little bit of thought, the process is there. It's not like that they're not ever going to be heard. I do believe that we do have housing shortage in this city that we're going to have to address as well. I think this is appropriate infill. I normally don't vote against the council members from the ward, but I believe in this instance I'm going to reconsider my vote. So with that, what other discussion would you like to have?
 this vote will be whether the rezoning ordinance passes or fails that's correct no it's not any other comment care which please call the role thanks so we're voting on the reconsider we're reconsidering the votes there this this will be a vote on whether the ordinance passes or fails to rezone the property or not okay so a yes vote is a reason and a no vote is not reason okay yes okay turk no artsburg yes
 Harvey? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Mayor Jordan? And I'm going to vote yes. Okay. All right. Let's go on to the next one.
 Under new business number one an ordinance rezoning that property inscribed rezoning petition RZN 21-07-0 located at 796 North 54th Avenue for approximately 1.01 acres from RA residential agricultural and RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RMF6 residential multifamily six units per acre. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA, Residential Agricultural, and RSF4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RMF6, Residential Multifamily, 6 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs out hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in West Fayetteville. It's about two miles west of Interstate 49's intersection with Weddington Drive. The property is between Weddington Drive to the north and Owl Creek to the south on the east side of 54th Avenue. It's currently developed with a single-family home. The home and the property itself largely falls within Owl Creek's floodplain.
 Most of the development you see in the aerial image here did occur before the property was annexed into the city in, I believe it was 1982.
 When looking at the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff found the proposal to rezone the property from RSF4 to RMF6 to be generally compatible. This area is a mix of residential zoning designations, a mix of residential dwelling types and lot sizes throughout the area.
 While there are several properties still zoned agriculturally, many of them don't conform to the Agricultural Zoning District's lot area standards and are more akin to lower density, single family zoning district designations. Additionally, there are, or building on that, there are attached residential housing to the south, to the east, and to the northwest. The remainder of what's in the area is largely single family other than that.
 When looking at the request in terms of the city's long-range plans, staff's findings were somewhat mixed.
 From a future land use map perspective, staff did find it to be consistent. This area is designated as a residential neighborhood area. That designation suggests that a spectrum, a wider spectrum of residential houses is appropriate. The RMF zoning district speaks to this by allowing single, two, three, four, and multifamily housing. Clearly, as the sixth numeral designation suggests, at a lower density level,
 that is likely more appropriate in this area.
 uh when looking at it uh the context of city plan 2040 it does become a little bit more mixed from staff's findings uh the infill score as you can see here was a four to a five depending where you stand on the property uh well it is in close proximity to fire state it's a fire response on root bowl and it doesn't have access to water and sewer it doesn't have access to transit there are not a lot in the way of amenities in the area
 Even with the city park nearby, that is the Woolsey Wet Prairie, which is a fair walk away and not on streets with any sidewalks available to them. There is however, trail access on Whittington Drive North, which is in near proximity.
 Other issues that staff considered, and I alluded to earlier, was there is FEMA-designated floodplain on the property. That's 100-year floodplain specifically. While concerning the staff, we did review this and saw that with the future updates to the FEMA maps, this area of floodplain will somewhat reduce on this property. Additionally, we feel that the...
 no adverse impact standards that came with the stormwater ordinance amendments recently will protect the city and the neighborhood from suffering if there's any amount of water displaced with building on this property. As a reminder, that standard that was adopted by council basically shows that any or requires that any floodplain require or provide a flood study.
 showing that the footprint of any buildings or waters that are displaced because of the footprint of the building won't have a negative impact on neighboring properties or those downstream. With that in mind, staff's findings on land use compatibility and future land use plan compatibility or consistency, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission largely agreed, forwarding to either the City Council by a vote of 8-1,
 The conversation was fairly brief and mostly about the compatibility of the land use of what's allowed in the RMF six zoning district with what's in the area. The one dissenting vote very specifically noted that they were not in favor of development occurring in the floodplain. And to date, staff has not received any public comment on that.
 And as a follow-up on an item that came up at agenda session, there was a question about Clevenger Drive, which you see here running east to west and serving the duplexes to the south and east of this property. The...
 ownership of the property for both this request and those duplexes is the same so there is not a Conflict or concern with the ability to access club drew drive if this property is redeveloped I was not able to speak to that at a gin session But in looking at the property records and speaking with the applicant it is the same owner proposed And with that I'm happy to take any questions the council has thank you. I
 and i'm sorry mayor uh paul schmidt i believe is here as the applicant for the item would the applicant like to speak for the council good afternoon paul schmidt you can take your mask down if you feel more comfortable just put it back on when you get done or you can speak with it all yes sir uh uh jonathan did a great job i i don't have any any further thing to add to it okay thank you thank you all right what questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant
 um jonathan i'm looking at the packet and i don't see any graphics that show that this is in the floodplain um so i i guess i'm kind of absent in that knowledge of it being in the floodplain because it's not in the packet um can you uh do you have something that you could put on the screen for us to see absolutely allow me one more please thank you
 I see there. I apologize typically that is in our current land use map, which is the second to last map in the packet and does not indicate that apologize for me. Alright, what you're looking at here is basically the same view as that aerial. I showed you previously the property in question is here under my cursor.
 796 North 54th Avenue. And the blue you see is the 100-year floodplain associated with Owl Creek. The orange is the 500-year floodplain, what sometimes here called the, excuse me, and then the hazard or the hashing is the floodway for Owl Creek.
 Thank you for showing that. I appreciate that. Could you talk about the existing footprint that's on there right now and what an RF6 could possibly, RSF6 could possibly increase the footprint? It would be nice to be able to contrast what's possible with this rezoning compared to what is right now. Certainly. The
 With the way the property is today, it's about just over an acre. The RMF six zoning district would allow theoretical additional two units. Those could be in the form of duplexes like what you see to the south and east.
 It depends too if the applicant intends on keeping the existing single-family home there. So that makes it a little bit more difficult to speculate without knowing what their plans are for that. That could certainly make a difference on what could be done with the property. But if the property were to have all structures on it removed today, the zoning would allow up to six units on the property. Thank you for that. I appreciate it. What other questions do we have?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay, who would like to address us in the chamber? Kyle Smith.
 Thank you Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. I'm here to speak in support of this one. I think you can see exactly what you're going to get from this just looking at the satellite imagery of what surrounds in the zoning they're asking for. There are two things that I would like to bring up just as a caution to discuss but not as a reason to oppose this. The first is
 54th and Persimmon suffer from similar sidewalk neglect as the neighborhood that we were just talking about on the previous item and they've been asking for those for a little while and it's a big stretch it's kind of an expensive section to put in but as we see more and more and more development out to even farther west of this they are cut off from the Boys and Girls Club the
 Schools in the area and and even future trail area so would love to see us Make that a priority. The other thing is in the zoning request itself It's kind of an L shaped parcel and they're only asking for one of the branches to be rezoned That's going to leave kind of in the middle of the of the block there a section of RSF for about a half acre and
 that's kind of sandwiched in between RS or RMF6 and I wish you would amend it and go ahead and include that now so that the whole thing matched and They wouldn't be obligated to do anything with it But we certainly have the opportunity to add just a little bit more housing in the context that fits the surroundings Thank you very much. Thank you. We also like to address this in the chamber anybody signed up Susan Okay
 Okay, well I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is on the first reading it is a rezoning What discussion do we have from the council and what actions would you like to take? I mean if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading a second we have a motion second to go to the second reading Care which please call the roll bench. Yes Turk
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 ordinance rezone that property is cried and rezoning petition RZ n 21-0 7-0 located at 796 North 54th Avenue for approximately one acre from our a residential agricultural and RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to RM f6 residential multifamily six units per acre I'm a boost has been the rules and go to the third and final reading second most of the second to go to the third and final reading
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 And your list of rezoning that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 21-070 located at 796 North 54th Avenue for approximately an acre from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RMF6 Residential Multifamily, 6 units per acre. What final comments do we have in the council?
 Mayor, I'd like to say a few words. As you all know, there's been an international climate change conference going on this past week. And at some point, we've got to say we can't build in the floodplain because this is what's going to happen with the projections of climate change in our area. Right.
 And so I'm not going to support this because it's not that it's incompatible with the neighborhood because obviously there's a lot of RMF 6 already there, but because it is in that flood area. And we're going to have to address that. I mean, and I'm going to start now by not supporting any new development within a flood plain. Thank you. Okay.
 I have a few comments too, Mayor, if I may. Sure. Well, there's five things that are mentioned in this proposal that I had to consider seriously. First of all, it's in the hillside overlay part of it. The fact that it's in a floodplain is a real concern for me, as it is with Council Member Turk.
 The hydric soils, it's going to be important that there is really good engineering, and that is a concern to me. And then I had a fifth one, but those four right there are pretty substantial if you think about it in the long run in the future.
 I would like to support the staff and the commission, but on this one, I'm just going to have to go the other way. I'm not going to support. Okay. Any other final comments from the council? Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? No. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No.
 Scroggins yes, and so what does it count on that? For three so mayor. Do you care to vote? I'm gonna vote yes on this one all right the ordinance is passed All right number two an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition RZ n 21-0 7 to Locate the 32 20 West old Farmington Road for approximately 20 point 4 o acres from our a
 residential agricultural and rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family eight units per acre kit
 be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one that the city council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes its own classification of the properties on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from r.a residential agricultural and rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family eight units per acre
 Section 2 that the City Council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect The zoning change provided in section 1 Okay John
 thank you mayor this property is in southwest fayetteville uh a little ways north or a little ways west of uh martin luther king boulevard's intersection with interstate 49 uh more specifically the street light or stoplight out in front of
 on the south slope of Centennial Park, or south and east slopes, depending on how you think about the two different parts of Centennial Park that abut it to the north and west. Given its location, it's perhaps not surprising that the property does have a fair amount of topography on it, but it's not surprising that it's located on the south slope of Centennial Park. So, it's not surprising that the property does have a fair amount of topography on it.
 It's another way of saying there's quite a bit of slope, particularly when you look at the aerial here. There's two old agricultural ponds, which you can see about midpoint up the slope. Once you head north of that, the property becomes increasingly steep as it approaches the park boundaries itself.
 Heading south from there, the property does level out, and that's where you can find some remnants of some of the old agricultural uses. There are several retaining walls in there. If you happen to visit the property, you probably saw those.
 and today there is just a single-family home remaining on the site. The request before the council is to rezone the property from its mixed designation of mostly RA residential agriculture with some odd pieces of RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre to RSF8 residential single-family eight units per acre. Okay.
 When looking at this from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff did find the request to be compatible overall. The predominant land use in this area is undisputably single-family homes, with the exception of the park itself. They're at varying densities to the east and south, all along Old Farmington Road, back down to MLK to the south and Shiloh to the east.
 In terms of our long range plans, this is also designated residential neighborhood area, similar to the last item. Again, those are areas where we anticipate needing additional housing and a wider variety of housing. While the RSF 8 zoning district only allows single family homes, they feel that the density allowed within it is such that it'd be more respectful of the terrain challenges of the property.
 When looking at this through the lens of city plan 2040, this certainly does meet the intent of the appropriate infill standard from staff's perspective, as we found, despite the size of the property and the widely varying infill score that results.
 It does have access to prompt fire response from the station on Hollywood, has access to water and sewer. There are a wide number of amenities, services and employment opportunities all along Barclay for King. There's access to park, obviously to the North Trail and transit as well on the site.
 Again, staff felt that a higher density on the property would probably not be appropriate given that there is a reasonable or a notable amount of terrain on it, especially as you head towards the northern end of the site, which was part of the main other consideration staff took when looking at the natural features. That portion of the property that's steepest north of those agricultural ponds I was describing is within the hillside hilltop overlay district.
 That does come with heightened standards for tree preservation Whether property is being developed with a single-family home or or otherwise a grading permit is required along with an abbreviated tree preservation plan so those protection staff feels will be adequate that the lower density to protect or that portion of the property if it is intended to be developed
 and then we'll move on to the next item which is the water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply and water supply
 It's subject to our streamside protection standards, which includes buffer areas where very limited and no development is allowed.
 Again, we do consider the city's adopted existing protections to be sufficient to protect that stream and the areas of sensitive hilltop. Another consideration and one that the council may recall if you've heard other rezoning requests along Old Farmington Road is the adequacy of the street infrastructure. Old Farmington Road by and large does not have sidewalks along it. It's also open ditches on both sides.
 And during other resigning requests, you may recall hearing concerns from residents along there, complaints from other residents along there about drainage issues. That was brought up by the Commission as well. They do recall those same concerns and concerns.
 did have concerns in turn that this was, the street was being developed piecemeal. There was also from staff's perspective, when properties develop like this in a larger swath, it does afford the opportunity to make larger improvements rather than one off properties where our development codes limit our ability to ask developers to improve large pieces of land or add sidewalk.
 We felt that the size of this property and developing it would allow possible benefits to the overall area in terms of pedestrian access or drainage improvements. With that said, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission did ultimately unanimously agree. They felt that the access to services and amenities and the size of the property offset their concerns about the development's impact on natural features.
 And similar to what I noted before, they did also note that it was interesting that no public comment had been made on this item to staff to date. And none was made at the Planning Commission as well. And I'm available for any questions the council has. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have on this one from the – oh, is the applicant here? Is there an applicant here? Okay.
 Sorry, Mayor. I believe it's going to be either Kelsey Crear, Ryan Gill, or Rick McGraw, I believe, are in attendance perhaps for this item. Okay. Oh, or Evan Niehaus. Sorry. That's right. Evan Niehaus with Harrison French and Associates.
 I just like to point out we did look at some multi-family zonings and eventually fell on RSF 8 finding that it was like he said with the stream side being there we have Surveyed the stream side and we have noted the the stream bank and the width of the resection zone. Of course we have No intention to to get in there and the floodplain is only within that stream side. So I
 With the Commissioner's comments about floodplain, I think the ordinance protects that stream and the flood zone very well. With the comments about traffic and some of the flooding going on, we agree, you know, we're going to work with staff and however that has to be made, you know, that's a bridge we're going to have to cross.
 Um, and we have ordered a traffic study. So, you know, like he said, with a larger property, we are going to have to look into, you know, how does it affect the street widening and all that kind of thing. And I'm here to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have in the council for the applicant or the staff? I have a question. Okay. Um, when this was rezoned back in 2004. Um,
 Attached with the rezoning was a bill of assurance. Could you tell me about that, Jonathan? Hi, Councilman McKinnon. I'm not familiar with the bill of assurance for this property. Everything I've seen shows it was used agriculturally before it was annexed into the city and has since been used for single-family. Well, I might have screwed up when I was living on the GIS map. That's what I was looking at. So I accept that. Thanks.
 What other questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the chamber after that.
 who do we have on zoom susan nobody okay those that are in the council chambers that would like to speak on the rezoning uh may be allowed to speak now anyone okay and we'll bring it back to the council this is on the first reading uh this is an ordinance that's on the first reading so what discussion or action items would the council like to take
 I don't really want to rush this, but I mean, I don't hear any opposition, but is it possible we could leave it on this reading? Oh, I'm fine with that. That's why I'm asking, what do you all want to do? I would just like to not rush it. So that's kind of my, I'd request that. I mean, so far we haven't heard from anybody, but it's new on the agenda. Okay. Is there any in board one? Board one.
 Yes. So do you want to hold, do you all want to hold it or what? I would like to. I believe it is in Ward 1, that's why I'm speaking. Yes, it's in Ward 1. I think, from my recollection. I think it's a little smaller than Ward 1. It's in Ward 1. Okay. I'm probably withholding it. Okay. Okay. So we'll just leave it right here then for two weeks. All right. All right, let's go on number three.
 An ordinance to rezone that property to describe and rezone the petition RZN 21-071 located at 710 South College Avenue for approximately .31 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to DG Downtown General. Kit.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to DG Downtown General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 OK, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in South Fayetteville, just east of the northeast corner of Walker Park, on the east side of College Avenue between 7th and 9th Streets. It's currently developed with a non-residential building that's been largely vacant since it fell out of disuse some years ago. It's my understanding that it was previously used for an automotive service, but I'm not able to confirm that as of today.
 The property got its current neighborhood conservation zoning district as part of the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan. That rezoned a large portion of the Walker Park area from a multifamily zoning destination to a mixture of NC neighborhood conservation, which you can see north of here in blue, which is downtown general.
 The NC neighborhood conservation was intended to protect, as the name suggests, the existing neighborhood, while DG downtown general was intended to serve as an acknowledgement of some of the non-residential uses that existed in the Walker Park area, whether it was Jefferson School, what is known as the Spring Shop in the Northeast or otherwise.
 What the applicant is proposing today is to rezone this property to DG downtown general and Staff does find their requests to be largely compatible with the surrounding area It as I noted before it is a non-residential building was historically used for non-residential purposes the Walker Park Nash or neighborhood master plan does note a deference to those historic non-residential
 uh residential uses but it's not clear why this part this particular property was not zone dg or something similar to afford it the opportunity to continue functioning as a service to the area
 given its proximity to other services and growing amounts of housing staff that feel that it's compatible. The downtown general zoning district does include the allowance for offices, restaurants, and smaller retail functions while removing some of the uses that can create much greater impacts like drive-thru restaurants or gas stations, although I suspect the property could not feasibly be used that way.
 The potential is not there either way. From a long-term land use plan perspective, staff does feel that this request does speak to many of the ideals of the Walker Park Plan, despite the fact that the plan did very explicitly rezone this property in-sea. Again, that plan also does mention in several instances that there is an intent to preserve those non-residential uses for buildings in the area to serve the neighborhood in the
 Similarly, staff feels that it speaks to the, the request speaks to the future land use map, which does designate it as a residential neighborhood area, which the Downtown General Zoning District does allow residential uses. This portion of college is close to other services, whether it's the adult learning center in Jefferson School or the nearby church, and the uses allowed at DG can compliment those as well.
 We feel that this is an appropriate location for infill as well, whether it's non-residential or residential infill.
 This neighborhood has seen a lot of growth in recent years, associated demands, which is putting more and more cars on the street, allowing an office or service to be here could potentially allow walkable service in a neighborhood that doesn't have a substantial amount nearby. Additionally, given the fact that it's in an established neighborhood, it's probably not surprising that it does have access to water and sewer. Transit serves the area, of course, Walker Park and the
 The trail system is nearby to the to the West when it comes to issues staff to not find there being any while again the downtown general zoning district does allow a fairly wide breadth of non residential uses the property itself and.
 Excuse me, and it's less than a third of an acre size isn't its own inherent restriction on the ability to develop it. We feel that's enough to protect the neighborhood and ensure whatever goes in there, whether it's an existing building or not, will be compatible with the homes in the area. With that said, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it by a vote of eight to zero with one commissioner recusing.
 The commissioners felt that the request was compatible and had a similar feeling as staff that the property size limits its potential inherently. In terms of public comment, there was not any at the Planning Commission, but prior to that a neighbor, a nearby neighbor I believe to the south had written it, expressed their support for the request. And that's all staff has heard to date in public comment terms.
 And with that, I'm available for questions. The council has, and I believe Lucas Cooper is available as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Are they there? Yeah, you've got it. Yeah, I'm here. Can you hear me?
 Yes, so I'm Lucas Cooper. I am a member, owning member of Cedarwood Group, who just recently purchased this property. We are really just looking to take an abandoned building that's set vacant for years and years and years and bring new life to it. We're wanting to leave the existing building structured the way it is and beautify it, bring in some...
 some new energy and brighten it up. So hopefully a local artist, or we've been speaking with a few different firms in town, creative firms about potentially officeing out of there. So really our goal is just to brighten it up, make it more accessible and something that's not quite as ugly to stare at. That's all I'm here for questions if you have any. Okay, what questions do we have in the council for the applicant or the staff? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 If anybody gets one turn to speak, you have a five-minute duration broken into seconds of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. We will take those participating by Zoom first and those in person after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, who do we have in the chamber who would like to speak on this topic?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What is the what discussion or action items with the council like to take? There is a discussion I'd like to move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay, we have a motion a second to go to the second reading. Care which please call the roll.
 yes Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes and ordinance to rezone that property described a rezoning petition RZN 21-071 located at 710 South College Avenue for approximately 0.31 acres from NC neighborhood conservation to DG downtown general
 um i have a i have a question before we move on um i'm just i'm looking back and forth between downtown general and neighborhood conservation and many of the items are the same but neighborhood conservation is three stories and downtown general is five and i'm encouraged by the applicant wanting to liven up and brighten up the current building but i'm also kind of curious
 why they can't do that right now with neighborhood conservation so I'm Jonathan or could you speak to any differences and permitted uses between the neighborhood conservation and the downtown general but they be severely with with with neighborhood conservation as its own right now
 i think the biggest consideration is a nuance of the neighborhood conservation zoning district when it comes to non-residential uses so there as the name again suggests there are no non-residential uses allowed by right and neighborhood conservation there is however what we call use unit 12a which is limited business and that is a conditional use of neighborhood conservation where a property owner can petition the city the planning commission specifically
 for a conditional use permit to operate in certain building sizes for certain uses i think the biggest limitation there is that some of the uses allowed are capped at i believe it's 1500 square feet and the existing building on this property according to the county records and the applicant may be able to confirm or deny this is 1800 square feet uh
 So, by rights, immediately the property owner would not be able to use it for some of the service-oriented aspects under limited business. Things like salons and barber shops would not be allowed in that building if it is over 1,500 square feet. Wonderful. Thank you so much for clearing up that nuanced difference that actually is really important. Thank you. What other discussion do we have?
 I just have a comment. This is my neighborhood. I live really around the corner and see that building. I'd love to see some businesses that could be in the neighborhood. It's just across the street from the park. That building is an eyesore. I'd love for people to be able to have some services to walk to. So I'll be supporting this. I think it's a great idea.
 Okay, we're still on the second reading. Yeah, and if nobody had discussion, I'd like to spin the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Care which please call the roll. Banks. Yes.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes. Harvey yes, Jones. Yes, yes, yes.
 Adjournance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-071 located at 710 South College Avenue for approximately 0.31 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to DG Downtown General. Okay what final comments do we have in the council?
 I think one final comment I have is that this, how this is really different from the other ones we've seen. You know, we're not talking about a hillside. We're not talking about a hundred-year floodplain area. We're not talking about an area that has ditches. You know, this is a good area for some development and some growth. And so I'm excited about it. That's all I've got. Anything else? Caravage, please call the roll. Bench? Yes. Turk? No.
 Yes Hertzberg Yes Harvey Yes Jones Yes Kenyon Yes Scroggin Yes
 Okay, let's go on to number four. An ordinance to amend 34.23 purchases and contracts not in access of $20,000 to increase the competitive bidding threshold for goods and services to $35,000 and to enact 34.24 contracts for public improvements not in access of $50,000. Kip?
 whereas act 435 of 2021 amended the statutory competitive bidding threshold in arkansas code annotated 14-58-303b for goods and services from twenty thousand dollars to thirty five thousand dollars
 And whereas Act 440 of 2021 amended the statutory competitive bidding threshold in Arkansas Code Annotated 22-9-203 for public improvement contracts from $35,000 to $50,000.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 34.23 of the Fayetteville Code and replaces it with a new Section 34.23 as shown below.
 Section 34.23, purchases and contracts not in excess of $35,000. All purchases not in excess of $35,000 shall be made by the mayor or the mayor's newly authorized representative after securing and recording of quotation bids, therefore, provided quotation bids need not be secured for purchases under $5,000. Subjection B.
 Cost Share Agreements with developers or governmental entities for improvements of City infrastructure are expressly exempt from the requirements of this section. The City Council shall signify its approval of Cost Share Agreements by resolution.
 Subsection C, contracts not in excess of $35,000 shall be made and entered into by the mayor. The mayor or mayor's designees shall have authority to approve contract change orders up to the contingency amount, if any, as set forth in the approved contract, even though such contingency amount may exceed $35,000.
 Subsection D, the hiring or engagement of professional services shall be conducted according to a professional hiring policy approved by the City Council. Subsection E, sole source provider.
 Multiple quotation bids shall not be required if the purchasing manager approves a sole source justification form signed by the requesting division head for an item that is uniquely compatible with existing equipment or has unique and essential design or performance features. Pursuant to Arkansas Code Annotated 14-58-10421,
 A written proclamation from the mayor shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer setting forth the basis for the single-source procurement. Subsection F. Exempt goods and services. Goods and services recognized as exempt from competitive bidding under Arkansas law shall not require a sole-source justification, quotations, or competitive bidding.
 and subsection G, waiver of requirement for bids. The city council by ordinance may waive the requirements of this section for competitive bids or quotes in exceptional situation where this procedure is deemed not feasible or practical. Section two, that the city council, the city of Fayetteville-Arkshire, hereby enacts a new subsection 34.24, contract for public improvements, not in excess of $50,000 as shown below,
 Subsection 34.24, contracts for public improvements not in excess of $50,000. All contracts not in excess of $50,000 for the making of major repairs or alterations, for the erections of buildings or other structures, or for making other permanent improvements shall be made by the mayor or the mayor's duly authorized representative after securing and recording of quotation bids therefore. Okay. Andrea.
 Andrea, you're muted. Nope, can't hear ya. Nope. I suggest maybe you just remove your headset and see what we get. Nope. Andrea, what if you just remove your headset and see if your audio will work that way? Yeah, there you go. Okay. Now we're going to have to turn it up. Speak, got any volume control? Nope. Why don't we go on to the next item, we'll come back to this one.
 Okay, I'm going to move us on to number five. An ordinance to amend 118.01, applicability of the Federal City Code, and 163.18, short-term rentals of the Unified Development Code to extend the short-term rental startup period from six months to nine months. Kit? Oh, let's see. Just one second. Okay. Okay.
 whereas during review and consideration of fable's short-term rental ordinance a six-month startup period was adopted and the period expires on november 21st of 2021 where and whereas the startup period was intended to afford type 2 short-term rental operators six months in which the operator could apply for and receive the required business license without the fee and public hearing associated with the conditional use permit
 And whereas many applicants were not prepared to provide their requisite insurance and ownership documents, while other proposed units did not meet the life safety standards established by the Building Safety Division, and addressing these issues has taken weeks or months in many instances. And whereas an extended startup period will provide the opportunity to consider these issues and consider potential amendments to the short-term rental ordinance prior to the end of the startup period,
 now therefore be ordained by the city council of the city of favorable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of favorable arkansas hereby amend subsection e4 of section 118 8 118.01 applicability of the fable city code by changing the six-month startup period to a nine-month startup period as shown in exhibit a attached to the planning division's agenda memo
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend section a 7 of section 163 point 1 8 short-term rentals of the Unified Development Code By changing the six-month startup period to a nine-month startup period as shown exhibit be attached to the planning divisions agenda memo Okay Jonathan I believe you have this one
 Yes, Mayor. Thank you. Just to get us caught up real quick back to where we are tonight. I know I touched on this at agenda session, so I'll keep it brief. It was in April of this year that council adopted the short-term rental ordinance. The highlights or general notions behind it were that the standards were broken to the type one and type two short-term rentals. Type ones were those.
 still used primarily as a permanent residence, whereas type twos were intended to be those not occupied by a permanent resident, be marketed effectively full-time as a short-term rental. A second component of the ordinance was the density cap that was applied to it. That came in two pieces. There is a citywide density cap where no more than 2% of the dwellings city would be permitted to be used as a permanent resident.
 as short-term rentals, type two short-term rentals. And that was largely based on concern about removing too much housing from the market. The second portion of the density cap, which spoke to the same issue, limited the amount of building specific short-term rentals. So if you had multiple units in a building, no more than 10% of those units could be used as short-term rentals.
 Finally, what I intend to speak about tonight, what Mr. Williams alluded to, was that there is a six-month start-up period where people currently are intending to operate short-term rentals could receive business licenses for them without having to go through the conditional use permit process that short-term rentals would be subject to through the Planning Commission after the start-up period.
 The ordinance was implemented 31 days later. Here we are November 2nd and the start up period ends in about just under three weeks of the 21st of November of this year.
 As far as the numbers go, I know I provided some last week. These are slightly different than those. We started seeing applications on May 21st. As of today, we've seen 263 applications submitted. Those are broken down by type one and type two. Again, type one are those with permanent residents, so people who may go camping on the weekend and rent their house out periodically. We've seen 45 of those.
 And type twos, which are clearly the most dominant one, are those intended to be used purely as short-term rentals. And we've seen 218 applications for those. Overall, 90 have been approved, which is a, excuse me, this is about a third or so, so far to date.
 The main issues we've seen is, and again, it's in the ordinance language, so I don't wanna harp on it too much, was I don't think a lot of the applicants were prepared when they submitted their applications. Many of them were lacking the appropriate insurance or any insurance coverage at all for their homes to be used as short-term rentals. The vast majority of insurance companies are all that we've seen so far do require a rider specifically for that to protect the homeowner if there is an accident.
 Perhaps more significantly and why I included the checklist in staff's report are the life safety standards that building safety established for those licenses to go through an inspection for prior to getting their business license. Many of the homes lack smoke or CO2 detectors. A lot of had a furnace inspection in many years, much less within one year.
 several lack handrails or guardrails in instances where there are multiple steps or very steep steps and perhaps most alarmingly but when our inspectors visited several of these properties rooms proposed as bedrooms did not have clear escape routes there'd be a bed put in any room available to accommodate a resident
 Other issues we've seen are the, we've seen requests that have exceeded that second density cap that I described just now. That's the cap within a building. So buildings that for instance have 10 units in them, they can only have one short-term rental license issued for them.
 We've seen the significantly challenging for particularly condominium buildings, which we do define as multifamily buildings because they are multiple units connected to each other.
 So it is my intent to bring forward, if the council extends the startup period, to bring forward a presentation with some of these issues. And if it's the council's interest that we revise any of those items, we can certainly do that. That's in the future, however. What I'm proposing tonight is to approval of a three-month extension to what was adopted as a six-month startup period. This would extend that through February 21st
 This will hopefully cap or see all the existing permits approved that meet their life safety inspections and have their appropriate documentation.
 and I'll also hopefully afford the opportunity for the several hundred other short-term rentals that preliminary numbers suggested are operating in Fayetteville, close to 600 in total. Afford them the opportunity to submit their applications and bring them above board prior to the ordinance going to effect and there being potential for having to take enforcement actions on them.
 With that, I'm happy to take questions the council has. Thank you. All right. What questions do we have for Jonathan on this? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one, Mayor. Okay, who do we have in the chamber would like to address us on this? Okay, I will bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance which basically extends the start of period from six months to nine.
 We're on the first reading. What discussion or action would the council like to take? Mayor, you know, Jonathan, we talked about trying to get the word out a little bit more. And have you discussed that or do you have any strategies for that? Because it would be disappointing to be in the same situation in three more months where we really don't have very many people
 type one or type two is coming forward and they have to go through the planning commission and get a CUP. So just wondering if if you've thought about that or have a strategy to get the word out a little bit better.
 Thank you, and I appreciate you bringing that up. I apologize. You did bring that up at agenda session, and I did follow up with the planner who was managing this project previously, and they had reached out to the larger organizations, Airbnb, VRBO, in an effort to utilize them as a platform to inform their plans.
 I don't know, clients or customers is the appropriate term to notify them. Their responses were fairly boilerplate, unfortunately. They noted that they make sure the people using their platform are required to meet local standards. I certainly do want to pursue a more aggressive public notification standpoint, whether that's through the city's social media and website or otherwise.
 I think one, and not to put any pressure on the council, we did wanna see what the council did tonight before we did give advice on whether they would have until February or whether they needed to be thinking about that in the near term. But it is another, I do plan on pursuing that line of questioning again, the platforms, but it did seem like it was a dead end previously.
 Thank you for following up on that and that's a bit disappointing because that would have been a great way to Make sure that the word got out and so forth. So, thank you I'd like to propose we leave this on the second reading just so that we can talk about it again And maybe that could increase awareness. I Second it so I'm sorry. I didn't catch the motion. I'd like to propose we leave this on the second reading Leave it on the second reading
 Second. We're on the first reading right now. Oh, leave it on the first then. Okay. All right, so you all want to leave it on the first reading for two weeks. Yes. Okay. Mayor. Mr. Mayor, before the City Council does that, they should realize that the six months period of time is going to expire this month. And so, even though I think that I can make a pretty good argument that this is a, you
 an ordinance that will take effect immediately, even though it is amending a code, which usually means it's a 31 day before it takes effect. I think if you want to extend this startup period of time, it would be better to do it tonight. But at least if you want to do it, you'll have to do it this month before the end.
 Current period expires or else it's going to cause a big bureaucratic problem for the planning department to try to get this done But I still have the option to call in special city council within
 I'm kind of wondering if we were to table this, what exactly is the, how exactly are we going to get the word out? And I mean, what exactly is that going to entail if we table it? Because
 i don't know what that's going to be and i don't know that we really need to table it honestly i just think that if it's on the agenda for longer um some people who might not be here tonight might look at next week's or the next councilman meetings agenda and i don't know it might help well we won't from my perspective council there's no i mean if you
 If you table this tonight, we will have to have a special city council meeting before the end of the month to hit the time frame. Is that correct, Ken? Well, we will have. You know, we have another regularly scheduled one before this expires. So I think that the reason I can say that I think it can be taking effect immediately is that even though it looks like it's permanent in effect,
 A start-up date is always just a single thing that happens and then after that it occurred, even though it's still in the code, it's not active anymore, it's not effective anymore. So that would be my argument to say it's effective immediately.
 Of course, I'd be more comfortable if we, the sooner we did it the better, but I think that that's a reasonable argument to say it'll be effective immediately even without an emergency clause. So is the time up? Now the next city council meeting will be the 16th and the time expires on November 21st. Okay. Well that's five days. Well all right, then everything's everything, right?
 i will personally move it forward at the next city council meeting okay or i can call the special city council meeting if i need to before the end of the month sounds good okay all right so i assume everybody wants to leave it right here all right now let's go back to the previous item
 which was an ordinance to amend 34.23 purchases and contracts not in excess of $20,000 to increase the competitive bidding threshold for goods and services $35,000 and to enact 34.24 contracts for public improvements not in excess of $50,000. Now, let's see. We were at the point...
 where staff was, yes, Andrea. Good evening, Mayor, Council. I guess when technology fails, you're downstairs tonight, so. Last legislative session included multiple acts that affected the state's procurement code. The changes kind of split the categories into two separate pieces. Act 435, kind of as Kit reiterated, is affects goods and services that take that threshold up to $35,000.
 The second section is Act 435, which is for public improvement projects, which is more commonly known to staff as our construction projects. And that amount threshold increases to $50,000.
 Something else that Act 435 does, just as a disclosure, it does include adjusting purchasing thresholds every five years at the state level beginning with January 1, 2025. And so purchasing will, of course, keep an eye on that and bring that forward after that time. So the two sections of our code, just to summarize, one is Section 3423. It increases the threshold to $35,000 for goods and services.
 It increases the quotation limit up to $5,000. It adds language to the mayor to authorize the representative to execute contracts not in excess of $35,000 and it exempts items from quotes, competitive bids or sole source that meets state law requirements.
 second second second section of that 3424 is simply that second half of the code that increases public improvement projects to fifty thousand uh this modification is similar to thresholds existing for the city of little rock um i believe city of springdale and bentonville have both both increased their thresholds as well and with that i'll take any questions you might have what questions do we have for andrea tonight okay let's take some public comment then
 everybody has one turn to speak you have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the chamber chambers after that who do we have on zoom susan no one mayor okay who do we have in the chambers like to speak on this topic
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading right now What discussion our action items with the council like to move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Second we have a motion a second to go to the second reading care which police call row bench Yeah, bench. Yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes, Harvey. Yes Jones yes
 Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. And in order to amend Section 34.23, purchases and contracts not in excess of $20,000 to increase the competitive bidding threshold for goods and services to $35,000. And to enact Section 34.24, contracts for public improvements not in excess of $50,000. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Okay.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final read. Kerwood, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 In order to amend section 34.23, purchases and contracts not in excess of $20,000, to increase the competitive bidding threshold for goods and services to $35,000, and to enact section 34.24, contracts for public improvements not in excess of $50,000. What final comments do we have in the council? Caravage Police, Colorado. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones. Yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes, okay. Thank you all very much now number six a resolution to call a special election to fill a vacancy Of the City Council member for Ward 2 position 2 of the city of federal kids you won't take that one away Yes, sir mayor as
 Many council members remember, and you do, that we've had to face this issue once before when a council member resigned from his position. And the state law gives us two options, gives the city council two options. One option is to call for a special election, and there are provisions saying when and where that's going to have to be and the procedures for that.
 And the other option would be for the city council to elect a new city council member themselves to serve out the remainder of Councilmember Petty's term, which is somewhat over three years from now. So as I stated in my memo of October 25 to you, you can you probably need to select the first thing that you probably need to do is select your option.
 so that there would need to be a motion from a council member to either call for a special election to select the new council member so the citizens have a right to vote to select a new council member or to make a motion to have the city council members elect the council member replacement themselves.
 So I'll be happy to answer any questions, but the first issue will be which direction the city council wants to go, call for a special election, or appoint a new council member. I move we have a special election. Second. Okay, then. Well, let's discuss that. What discussion would we have from the council? Anything else on that? Well, I think...
 Well, I think some of the people I've seen are absolutely wonderful. With three years ahead of us, I think the citizens need to have a vote on that. I hope that some of the people that did send their resumes actually throw their hat in and run for an election. Some of them I'm super excited about. But I think the citizens need to have a say here. Okay. Thank you.
 Anything else? I tend to... I agree with Sloan on that. I think, you know, we...
 I've gotten and we have received some letters of interest from some really spectacular people. I wish we had the option since we're getting ready to go into budgeting. I wish we had the option of maybe putting someone in the position, you know, at least so we'd have two voices from from Ward two are representing, you know, the ward during budgeting and then still have the special election. But that's not possible. So.
 i'm in favor of the special election myself okay well let's do take a little public comment because we need to all right now here's the rules for the public
 The public can say you can speak on the topic of whether you would prefer an election or an appointment. Now, that is your topic. Those of you that this is not a place for campaigning, this is a place for either you either say you're in favor of an election or an appointment and tell us why you're in favor of an election or an appointment, and that is the topic. We're not going to get off on...
 campaigning that will be done if a special election is passed by this City Council. So with that, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments in three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Now it's either appointment or election. Now I will keep you on topic. I can assure you of that. So no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address.
 Those that are participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom? There are members on Zoom, but no one has their hands raised. Well, we're fixing to shut that down and come to the chamber if somebody doesn't raise their hand. No hands are raised. All righty then. Who would like to address us that are here in person in the chamber about whether you would prefer an election or an appointment?
 Mayor, City Council, I'm Eddie Tisnato. I'm a resident here in Fayetteville and I'm in support of allowing the citizens to choose and have an election. There's an article that came out in the Democrat Gazette and came out the 30th and it's entitled,
 forget appointment war two voters should have their say in picking petty's replacement and one of the things that are cited that cited in the article is what already took place prior to Holly Hertzberg being chosen and that is the last time that the City Council may face the situation they put mr. Smith in by appointment and then when it came time for the actual
 election to take place, although Smith ran again with a larger budget, he lost with 31%, and Holly Hertzberg won with 51%.
 and that's how the citizens voted and uh what that reveals is that what the city uh council did in the mayor by appointment was not the will of the people so i'm here to you know show that i'm in favor of allowing the citizens to to choose who you know we want to represent us all right thank you for your time thank you anyone else
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. We have a moat. We have a Motion and a second to put this Forward as a special election to the people any final comments from the council. Yes. I have a couple of questions What would be the cost of an election? I think Kara sent it out and kid what happens if there's a runoff and
 Well, we can't give you an exact figure for the costs. A full citywide special election has cost between $16,000 and $20,000. This is an election that only is in Ward 2, so it will be significantly less than a citywide election. I don't think it'll be necessarily a quarter of it. It might be a third or something like that.
 it would be almost certainly less than $10,000. There is a possibility if numerous candidates run that there would have to be a runoff, and I would think the cost of the runoff would be very similar to the cost of the regular election. So the regular election is... I should call it special election, sorry. Sorry, yes. So the special election is tentative for February 8th,
 Yes. And so the runoff election will be, is it 30 days after that? I think it is actually three weeks after that. Don't put that in the bank, but I think it's 21 days. And where will the voting take place? Will it be in Ward 2 or the courthouse? How does that? I would imagine early voting will be able to be taking place in the courthouse, and then I think that the election itself on the day of February 8th will be at polling places in Ward 2.
 Thank you, Kit. I'd just like to... Oh, and Council Member Jones, just to provide additional information to you, regarding the runoff, the last one that we have access to at this moment was roughly about $9,137, so roughly $10,000 for a ward runoff. Thank you.
 I'd just like to make a final comment. Even though this election might cost quite a bit of money, I think that it's money well spent, because this is a three-year term that we're trying to appoint or we're trying to fill. So I believe that the Ward 2 residents should have a say in that. Thank you. OK. Anybody else? OK. Kerr, would you please call the roll?
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Williams? Yes.
 Okay. Okay, Mayor, right now we have the resolution that is in the packet that calls for the special election. Do you want me to read the body of it? I think you've already read the title. Yes. Okay, here for the public to make sure you know what the City Council will be voting on.
 whereas a vacancy in the office of the council member of ward 2 position 2 occurred on october 25 2021 in the city of fayetteville and whereas pursuant to aca section 1443 411b the city council has voted to call a special election to fill this vacancy now therefore it be resolved by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section 1
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby calls a special election to fill the vacancy for Councilmember in Ward 2, Position 2 of the City of Fayetteville for February 8, 2022. And Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that the circulation period for petitions of candidacy shall begin on November 12th.
 2021 and end at noon on November 29th, 2021. And the ballot position drawing shall be conducted on November 30th, 2021 at the place and time selected by the Washington County Election Commission. Okay, so we need to vote on that kit again.
 I mean, all. Yeah, it needs to be a motion and a second to pass the resolution. OK. We need a motion and a second to pass the resolution. And move we pass the resolution? Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. I guess we've got to get public comment. Is that correct? All right. Well, let's get some public comment on the motion and the second on the resolution. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes.
 Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person in the chambers after that. Do you have anybody on Zoom? Susan? No. Okay. Does anybody in the chamber would like to address us on the resolution? All right. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay.
 All right. Care which police call her up? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay. Thank you. All that concludes our business decision. Do you have any announcements or anything? One announcement, Mayor. Um.
 Council and public will recall that we've had a vaccine incentive campaign. It closed as far as applicability on October 15th, and the last day to pick up the money if you applied before November 1st is this Friday, November 5th. Thanks. Do you have the numbers of how many that,
 No, sir, but I can report on that next time. Okay Chief Harden, do you happen to have any of those numbers you used to keep up with those just to let the council know? How successful this program has been yes, I can tell you in just a second. Sorry. I wasn't prepared Now fast I can get the report Well, it's not a real biggie if you just can't pull it right up chief I
 I want to say, I can't. It's okay. I think the last I heard was about 1600. I want to say it was around 2000. Okay. There you go. So I wanted the council to know sort of what those numbers were. So it was a pretty successful program. And that's all because of you all taking the initiative in doing that.
 Anyway, between 1,600 and 2,000, we can say that. 2334 was the total number. 2334 was the total number of applications received. The total number that were, some of them were duplications around 1,500. That's good. That's been paid out so far. That's good. All right. Mayor Jordan, we couldn't hear that on Zoom.
 Chief Harden mentioned there were 2,300 applications taken and as of today 1,500 have been paid out. There were some duplicates and there were some that were not eligible and we'll know the final number after this Friday. Right. Awesome. Thank you Susan. All right. I don't think we have anything else so we are adjourned. Thank you all.