I'd like to call the city council to call the city council meeting for November 7, 2017 to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Here.
 to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, first order of business we have tonight under the reports we have the monthly financial report from Paul Becker.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'll be doing this on a monthly basis now because of a change in the statutes. But let's first talk about the general fund. The period I'm going to talk about are the first nine months of 2017, so this is through the third quarter. Sales taxes were up in the general fund 4.7% overall.
 Our revenue in the general funds up about 2.5%. That's about $830,000 at this point in time. Remember the wages that were recommended by the mayor that you granted were about $1.2 million. So we're on track of meeting that obligation. Other than that, we have committed roughly 76% of the budget.
 which is three quarters of the budget, which is where I would expect it at this point in time. So we're doing well in the general fund. If we look to the streets funds, we're up a little bit in turn back compared to what we had expected. The expenditures are 78% committed, so that's roughly what I would look at at this point in time. So we're doing well in the street fund.
 Parks development revenues up about 5% in parks development. That's $130,000 Expenditures are 67 percent committed. We still have some capital that we haven't committed out there and the parks development fund is doing well and
 Parking fund parking fund revenue overall is up about one and a half Percent at this point in time we expect to close the year a little better than that We've got committed about two-thirds of the fund at this point in time So that's reasonably where I would be expected. We still have some capital projects
 to contract for the end of the year in that particular fund. Trash and recycling, revenue is up pretty well in trash and recycling, up about 6%. Expenditures are about 62% of where we would, about the total fund, which is about where I would expect us to be. Again, we do have some capital law projects out there.
 Water and sewer revenue and water and sewers up six percent so revenue is up there We've expended or committed over 50 percent water and sewer and water and sewer Look for a different matrix because we have so much capital it has yet and committed out there so water and sewer sewer is doing well in 2017 also the airport and
 Revenue is up. Revenue is up over 10% at the airport, which is roughly $150,000. But remember, we still are not meeting the capital needs. At the airport, we've got to depend on grants to replace a lot of our capital infrastructure out there. So the airport is something we need to keep an eye on, but right now it's holding its own compared to operating expenses.
 And that's roughly all I'd like to talk about this point in time and try to concentrate on the operating funds We've got debt service funds richer in good shape We've got our capital funds Still remaining on some of the bond fund for the streets So everything else is in in pretty fair shape and we're looking good going into 2018. I'll be happy to answer any questions Questions from Paul John
 Paul, you mentioned the overall sales tax rate of increase. What was that number again? About 4.7% over the prior year. Over the prior year. That's correct. Would you say that's a good rate of increase or a mediocre rate of increase? I'd say it's good.
 I'd say it's very good. Certainly more than I projected, John, as I'm sure everybody here will remember. I didn't think we would hit that high, but we have. I'm very happy to see us clicking along. I hope it continues. Another good reason to believe in the future of Fayetteville. Thank you, Paul. We all believe in the future of Fayetteville, John. Absolutely. Any other questions? Thank you. All right. Next order of business is consent agenda. Number one, approval of October 17, 2017, city council meeting minutes. All right.
 Number two, a resolution of Ward bid number 17-50 and to authorize the purchase of a Caterpillar 930M four-wheel drive articulated loader from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company of Springdale, Arkansas in the amount of $175,962 for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division.
 Number three, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Toro Groundmaster 4000D from Professional Turf Products LP of Lenexa, Kansas in the amount of $65,156.
 and 88 cents pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Co-Optimized Purchasing Contract for use by the Parks and Recreation Department in approval of budget adjustment. Number 4, a resolution to authorize purchase of an Alamo Ridge Runner remote controlled slope mower from Alamo Industrial of Seguin, Texas in the amount of $48,220.66 pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance Co-Optimized Purchasing Contract for use by the Parks and Recreation Department in approval of budget adjustment.
 Number five, a resolution authorized the purchase of a 2018 Kenworth T-800 truck tractor from MHC Kenworth of Springdale, Arkansas in the amount of $135,052.44 pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance cooperative purchasing contract for use by the Wastewater Treatment Division.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $5,603 recognizing hazmat services revenue received from
 from Washington County and increasing the related expense budget. Number seven, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2017 Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality grant through the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District in the amount of $8,000 for the purchase of food waste carts for the composting program to improve budget adjustment. Number eight, a resolution to approve a lease agreement with the Campbell Bell Property Owners Association Incorporated for 14 parking spaces in
 federal municipal parking lot one located at 160 West Mountain Street for an additional five years at a monthly cost of $50 per parking space number nine a resolution authorized a service contract with blocker and Wallace service LLC in the total amount of thirty one thousand three hundred thirty five dollars and eighteen cents for the repair of two mechanical blower units used at the wayside water resource recovery facility number ten a
 A resolution to award RFP 17-06 and authorize a one-year contract with the Collection Bureau of America, LTD, for account collection services with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms. Number 11.
 A resolution to approve change order number two, the contract with Arkansas Roofing Company Conway Incorporated, any amount of $55,000 by expanding the project scope to include rehabilitation of the South Delta Aviation Hangar roof and the installation of gutters on the wings avionics hangar. Number 12, resolution to approve the first amendment to the contract with Granicus Incorporated, any amount of $1,140 for the purchase of a virtual
 Performance accelerator and to prove an annual 10% project contingency for the purpose of software maintenance and licenses for the Granicus system. Number 13, a resolution to name the boat ramp at Lake Federal the LD Habiati boat ramp in honor of the late L.
 D. Abbiati. Number 14, a resolution to approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $41,505.61 for a stormwater education program for 2018. Okay, I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Mark. I move we accept the consent agenda as published. Okay.
 Don? I second that motion. All right. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Munch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Gregg? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Under unfinished business number one, an ordinance to enact 110.03 small cell facilities and networks into chapter 110 telecommuting franchise bill posting and small cell facilities network. Before we get too far into that, I would like, I'm a little remiss, I should have introduced you all earlier. We had the journalism students from the University of Arkansas here, but you stand to be recognized by the council. Hand up, hand up.
 Thank you. I can assure you, you will be entertained this evening. All right. I'm going to entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading on number one. Della? I suggest we go to the third and final reading. Do we have a second? I have a point of order. In order for this to be amended, how do we do this? Yes.
 We go to the third reading and then we'll read. Third reading. Otherwise, Kit's got to read the whole ordinance all over again. Okay. I mean, if you want to do that. It's not that long since mainly everything's in the exhibit, but the exhibit isn't going to be what's going to be amended. Okay. I'll second that motion. We have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Kennett? I have to abstain or accuse. I'm sorry.
 Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Gregg. Yes. And Mayor Jordan, do you vote to pass a motion? Yes. In order to enact Section 110.03, Small Cell Facilities and Networks into Chapter 110, Telecommunication Franchise, Bill Posting and Small Cell Facilities and Networks.
 All right. Blake, I believe you have this. Good evening, Mayor, Council. On the 17th, you received a markup of some changes the administration had recommended. Yesterday, I emailed out a clean copy of that, and today I worked with Councilmember Petty to make some further amendments to that. So before we get too far, I would suggest amending Exhibit A to the current copy that's sitting in front of you with the highlights so we can get into some discussion of that.
 Okay. Mark? I move that we go to the amended copy that was sent out to us. Okay. Matthew? I'll second the motion. We have a motion second to, I believe it's four amendments to put into the document. Do we need to read those, or what do we need to do here? What are the amendments? Do you have a copy of them, Blake? You've got the amended exhibit. There were actually quite a few changes, probably 16 or 17 total amendments.
 So what we did was just a wholesale rewrite of Exhibit A and then also incorporated the additional amendments Alderman Petty has requested. So what we're considering now is amended to include Alderman Petty's language. That's correct. That's what I'm hoping for. So this, yes, this copy with the highlights that sit in front of you. Okay. So is everybody familiar with them or? All right.
 Thank you. Okay. What discussion do we have on the amendments, Councilman? Matthew. Yeah, so in addition to what we saw a few weeks ago, I requested today after a couple of meetings both with staff and
 with some of the telecommunications providers. Some amendments that would make the ordinance a little bit more flexible. So principally in two ways. One, prior to this amendment, we have an ordinance that has a strict 30 foot height limit for new poles. Now that height limit would be defined according to the street the pole is placed on. So more intense streets that typically have taller electrical infrastructure already would allow taller poles
 with small cell facilities. And we made it more flexible in the second way by allowing the zoning and development administrator to grant variances to some of the rules when there was sufficient evidence to support doing so. In a couple of areas, including in pole hide, including in the ability to attach to existing facilities
 in more ways. And beyond that, it's really just the same ordinance you saw a couple of weeks ago. I'm really proud actually of where the ordinance is today. I think that whenever you look at it and you realize, well for instance, nobody's complaining about how high the fees are. Just as an example, I think that staff has done a really magnanimous and diligent job of
 Going after this technology in a way that preserves some of Fayetteville's values while also accommodating what the telecommunications providers might need. And I'm happy to have this clean version in front of us. I understand they're also in the audience tonight. They might have some additional comments about some of their discussions this afternoon. Thank you.
 And I thought you all had hard copies of the changes that were made. Kit ran upstairs to grab those for you so you can look at them with us. But the specific changes are in E1, which talks about co-located facilities and facilities located on existing structures.
 which grants the additional five feet by right. So if you've got an existing telephone pole, we recognize that the providers are gonna have to stick an antenna on top of that. So instead of going through the variance process with the planning director every time, they can go up to five feet automatically. They can also request an additional up to certain amount, no more than 10 feet total if they need that.
 That's whether it's an existing pole or if they're replacing a telephone pole in the right-of-way, for example. Under new facilities in the public rights-of-way, we, as Matthew said, changed it to base the height limitation on street classification and also allow for that variance procedure for an additional 10 feet if it's needed because of topographical considerations or line-of-sight issues.
 We clarified in F6 there were some questions about the distance between new facilities, and the original draft was not entirely clear, but
 In layman's terms, we're trying to spread out ugly poles as much as possible. So non-camouflaged or non-stealth poles, your standard wood utility pole, if you put a new one in the right-of-way, the next new one would have to be 500 feet apart. There is no spacing requirement for stealth or camouflaged facilities or poles. And I'll be available for questions if you have them. Okay. What questions do we have in the council? All right.
 Mr. Mayor, I need to probably explain that this has been Blake's project, so I thought he was going to bring down the exhibit, and he thought I was going to bring down the exhibit, so you didn't have the exhibit in front of you, but now you do. So sorry that we didn't have it down there at the beginning of the meeting. Does anybody have any questions or comments? No? Okay. Well, I guess we will take some public comment on the amendments. Okay.
 And everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You get five minutes at the microphone. Keep your comments addressed to me. Don't engage a council member or anybody from the audience. Okay. State your name, your address.
 And Councilmember can bring you back up to ask questions if you need more time. And Councilmember can make a motion by vote of the council can give you X amount of times, whatever they determine that might be. Correct? Everybody got that? All right. Kathy, let's begin. Mayor, thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight to you and the council. I'm Kathy Foraker.
 3438 North Sassafras Hill Road in Fayetteville. I first want to just tell you what a great job your staff has done in working with the providers and...
 We're so grateful for the time. We just pretty much captured them all day today and are so grateful for the amendments. I think our biggest concern at this point is just that we get it right because it is so important and it is technical. And there are issues that can make it work or not work. And so we're so grateful for the amendments that were made today and just appreciate your consideration of those amendments. Thank you. You're very welcome. Does anybody have any questions for me?
 Spore acre or anything. I'm sorry. I should have asked all right who else would like to address us. I'm Susan Davis. I'm with Verizon Wireless We have made great progress with the city staff and have worked closely even today to make sure that we have an ordinance that is Favorable for both the city and the wireless carrier industry. We would encourage you to adopt a
 the amended changes that are being proposed this evening, but please allow the industry additional time to work with you and the city staff to make final technical changes that will provide us the clarity that we need to continue to invest in Fayetteville. Thank you. Okay.
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor and members of the council. My name is Brent Stevenson. My address is 318 South Pulaski Street in Little Rock, Arkansas. I'm a contract employee of T-Mobile, representing them here at this meeting tonight. And I want to echo the comments of the first two from AT&T and Verizon of the efforts of the staff and what they've been able to do and accomplish in putting forth this ordinance and the amendments that are in front of you tonight. As my two colleagues have indicated, there are some technical issues
 clarifications that we'd like to have some time with so the adoption of the amendments tonight and then some possibly extra time if that is the will of the council would be very helpful in trying to make sure we get as much of this as possible right we can to use a football analogy I'd say we're probably at about three yard line ready to help put this across the goal line for the city of Fayetteville and appreciate your consideration tonight thank you
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. John Scott. I live in Ward 3 here in Fayetteville. Also, I'm an attorney and I'm representing AT&T. I represent them on many matters here locally, but I'm here about this tonight. Just again, so that everybody's on the same page, and I do thank the council members who have spent time, have heard us out, and heard our concerns.
 The way this was brought, there was a lot of red on it. I think Mr. Pennington noted that there were 16 or 17 different changes that are part of this amendment that has been moved to be adopted. What we have tried to hope to do is say, yes, please go ahead and get that all in the ordinance. But we also wanna make it clear that what we ask respectfully,
 is that once that happens, if that is adopted here by votes here shortly, that the remainder of the ordinance, that's the clarification part. We ask for the ordinances as a whole be tabled
 We understand that the next meeting is in two weeks, but also I have a concern being a resident of Ward 3. I know Mr. Tenet has had to abstain or recuse on this one, and I'm hoping that as a professional courtesy, I know my representative, Ms. Bunche,
 may not be available the next meeting and so I would just only ask that we have the opportunity to in an orderly way present this information and that be considered as Perhaps final fine-tuning and then voted on as the ordinance as a whole at the next available meeting. Thank you
 Councilman, Mr. Mayor, my name is Marcus Hall. I live on Poplar Street. I've been a resident from Fayetteville for 20 plus years. And I thought that I kind of ended up at this podium night by strange occurrence. But I started this journey by I've been in the transportation industry a long time in Fayetteville. Some of you may know me. I'm interested in some of the technologies and small sales may afford to the automobile industry.
 Started researching a little bit on it. Met with some of or talked with some of the people in this room. I've read some of the letters that all of you have gotten from maybe one or two of these lobbyists that we've just heard from. I I've tried to meet with a couple of them and didn't work out, but I have talked to people in other communities. I have talked to other leaders, other people that have expertise in this arena. I have also seen
 your draft your willingness to work with these providers for so long a while I mean that's very admirable miss four acres who I have not got a chance to meet yet I know you saw her letter worse and then also mr. Stevenson over here both of them use the word technical clarifications I kind of find that interesting because as they call them technical when you go down they seem to be financial I think that
 When you pull back everything we've got to see here, they're a little bit worried about the things that we do very good, which is protect our landscape. I don't blame them. They want to see this great technology implemented in this great community as a leader in Arkansas. However, I do believe that everyone on this council has had the proper amount of time to review this. Mr. Petty's...
 comments earlier and his amendments today, even though I have not seen them, I think that demonstrates that he is comfortable with what you all are proposing and are prepared to vote for tonight. I would like to personally, as speak for, I didn't know if there'd be a lot of public comment here tonight, but as a public citizen who spent about a hundred hours on this issue, just reading and seeing everything you guys have done, talk to other people in the arena and
 I would like to encourage you to go ahead and put this on the books. My concern is that we will drag this out in a couple of weeks and talk about it, and then a couple of more because someone cannot be here. You end up in a situation to where you find out that what this is all about is aesthetics of these towers, and it's...
 It is prolonged long enough to where we may eventually see some kind of state intervention in this situation. And all of a sudden, people in Little Rock are deciding what these towers are going to look like in Fayetteville. I think that's a mistake. I think you guys can take a hold of this tonight. You can vote yes, we're going to pass this. Then you can turn around and you can build these things like we want them.
 I've read and I've studied and I've talked to people, and there's a possibility of having upward of 600 of these in our community. Now, admittedly, they're not going to all be on polls out there. They're going to be held in different stealth manners.
 But over the next 10 years, we're going to see an influx of these things based upon what you are implementing tonight. And I just encourage you to go ahead and get this done. Put it on the books. Let's work with these providers in a partnership, the community. I've been here since we didn't want McDonald's signs on the interstate. And so...
 I've seen how this community reacts and how they work with providers and Even though they're saying the table this I think we're all going to work together And I think we've got an opportunity here to create a standard not only in this city this county But in the whole state we can show everybody that you can build these things and have be aesthetically pleasing while at the same time providing a service that will lead me and everyone in this audience to less car accidents and
 to unified cities and to exciting technology that we need but let's get it done i'm just uh i appreciate your time and i hope you listen to me as a concerned citizen thank you very much thank you who else would like to address us on this on the amendments okay i'm going to bring it back to the council mark um i think that we should go ahead and adopt the amendments tonight and i do appreciate the hard work that alderman petty put in this to answer a lot of the questions and to work with the
 providers as well as looking out for the aesthetics of our community. As mentioned Fayetteville does have the opportunity to set a standard that meets both the expectations of the citizens in our neighborhoods. This offers a lot of variability and a lot of flexibility that was not in the initial draft to meet the conditions that were a concern.
 when this was initially presented. So I think that we have moved forward in answering a lot of those concerns. We do have to protect our neighborhoods and the...
 fill the landscape of Fayetteville, but at the same time, I'm very well aware of the need to meet the needs of establishing 5G here in this new technology. And I think that we are setting a standard and a baseline that can be reviewed in the future if we have a specific situation that
 that needs to be looked at, that is going to be inhibited because of what we've passed tonight. We are not locked into this forever, but we are setting a standard, a baseline, and I think that it's a very flexible baseline that's going to meet the needs of the community as well as the needs of the technology as it develops. So I encourage the city council to go ahead and take care of this tonight based on the amendments that,
 And then again, when we see a specific issue, a specific issue in the future, we know that we have the capacity to come back and revise what we've done. As stated earlier, there is a concern that there's going to be a state legislation that might be in place before if we drag this out. And I think that is a realistic concern.
 And I think that we need to set the standard. I think that we have to be at the forefront. When we talk with professionals in the entrepreneurial community that have technology backgrounds, from what I've been told is this looks like an awful good thing. And I take their position.
 point of view also very seriously because we do have to look at the vitality of our community and economic development. So I think what we have before us tonight is an excellent discussion.
 basic standard that will allow us to operate. We have six applications, I think, last I checked already in front of us in the city. This will allow us to go ahead and start processing applications soon. And as we're processing applications, then we're going to know the realities. We're not going to base this on a nebulous concept that is not well established. So
 For one, I'm going to support the amendments, and I will support passage of this tonight as it is amended. Who else would like to? Any other comments from the council? Okay. We need a motion and a second on the amendments. I'm sorry, do we have one? Yeah. Mark, you and Matthew. We have a motion and a second on the amendments. Any final discussion? Any more? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Emmett? Yes.
 Again, due to my employment with one of the carriers, I have to recuse. Batch? Yes. Cloutier? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, the amendments have been passed. Okay. Now we have the ordinance as a whole. That's correct. All right. What discussion do we have on that? Matthew? Well, on this notion of tabling, so I am not really for or against tabling per se or for any particular reason, so I have some questions here.
 you talk about use the word technical um a lot technical technical clarifications or amendments and i um i'd like to hear more what specifically you mean and um you know in all candor i'm a little bit um reluctant to table it because this has been
 being worked on for so long and there have been numerous meetings with everybody who's been involved so far i'm always understanding you know that maybe there might be need to be some tweaks and um uh
 That we may even discover even if we take the time to table it need to come back and change So I would really like to hear from at least one of the carriers if or more than one Specifically what some of these technical changes might be? I know I heard on the phone that we might need to define structures And I wouldn't really clear what the impact or how that was substantive I might need that to be explained to me a little bit better and I
 if there are still concerns with technical solutions that you guys have already floated to, or if there are technical solutions to some of the concerns you've already expressed, I'd like to hear more about those tonight to understand if, you know, if we really need to change those or if we should take two weeks. Well, what I had planned on doing is getting whatever discussion you all wanted to have, and then I'm going to open it up for public comment and bring it back to the council if that's,
 was what I planned on doing and getting whatever questions that they might have at that time of comments. Is everybody good with that? All right. What other discussion do we have from the council before I open it up for public comment? Staff want to add anything or anything? Okay. All right. Let's open it up for public. Oh, sorry. I've just got a motion.
 I'M SORRY, MARK. GO AHEAD. I WANT TO REITERATE THAT I THINK THAT WE ARE READY TO MOVE FORWARD AS AMENDED. AND I ALSO WANT TO MENTION THAT WHAT WE HAVE IN FRONT OF US IS VERY WELL INCORPORATED WITH THE ESTABLISHED UDC, THE CODE THAT WE HAVE WITHIN THE CITY.
 And when I was talking to individuals about some of the concerns such as stealth, well stealth has been defined and been in our UDC for 19 years, and it hasn't been an issue in the past. When we talk about design standards, we have so much flexibility currently in our UDC that we should be able to allow design standards to meet the needs of the community as well as the providers.
 We still have the opportunity to come back if there is a specific instance where we're impairing the implementation of 5G and this technology to come back and allow us to discuss what the barrier is and how we can get around the barrier, whether it be a variance or whether it be a change to the code. I do think that we've talked about this a very long time. We've had a lot of time to do research on this.
 I think that whenever you say it's a technical issue, yes, it's a technical issue. We've been provided a lot of technical information, and we've had a lot of time to get this technical information and compare it with other communities, with the implementation and the probability of implementation in municipalities, and the aspect to use...
 Some type of rhetoric to somehow complicate the situation, I think, is not necessary. I think that we have a very good amended exhibit in front of us that we've incorporated into the ordinance and that we can follow through very responsibly and meet the needs of the community, the providers, and provide the technology. Thanks. Okay. Any other comments from the council? No.
 Okay, now I'm going to open it up for public comment again. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You get five minutes, you know the rules.
 John Scott again, Ward 3. Let me take the time first, this asking. This is an unusual situation where businesses who want to invest in the city aren't trying to rush something through. They're actually saying that two to four weeks would allow it to be done better. It could allow engineering back at the home office to understand what communities we're going to devote our resources to
 Communities that have ordinances that are very clear and predictable is where resources get put. Uncertainties and ambiguities don't necessarily get the priority of investment. But as far as if the specific question was there's existing applications pending, Verizon, T-Mobile, and AT&T are here. They're the ones who actually provide connectivity here.
 There perhaps are some who are more like subcontractors, like a cell tower type person, who would want to come in and maybe gobble up some real estate right now. But ultimately, the carriers are unified that they have to actually invest their technology, their investment to provide that connectivity. Just because somebody makes an application doesn't mean anybody will have any increased capacity or 5G capability. You have to have a carrier who can do it.
 So on that point, I don't think that's a hurry to say two weeks or four weeks. That's not really going to change anything. You can still reject the proposals in two to four weeks and say we don't like your industry proposals. It's good the way it is, and it will be on the books before the end of the year. Something was said in the agenda meeting about if a federal law were to come in, or it's been mentioned a state law. Well, there's nothing on the books that will be in place in the next four weeks. And even if a federal law comes along in May,
 There's something called the Supremacy Clause. The FCC law would control anything. A prior city ruling that said we don't allow A, B, and C, if the federal law came along and says you have to allow A, B, and C, the federal law controls. So the question was, what do you want to change? Well, we went through a really good exercise today. We went through with Blake, and one of the examples would be the interchangeable use throughout the ordinance of the word facilities versus structures.
 it's not real clear. Sometimes they say facilities, sometimes they say structures. And a matter of fact, we have sort of
 pressed forward in the last day or two to get this form to where it could be an agreed amendment. But in doing that, it's not fair, I don't think, to anyone, to the council or to the providers to say, well, you just got to make a decision now, quick. I mean, because there are existing ambiguities between structure versus facility. That's one example. You know, I'm not smart enough. I'm a caveman lawyer, as they say on Saturday Night Live. There are engineers that are going to need to look at this with the amendments, care
 carefully read it in black and white without there were a lot of reds marked out, arrows, comments. We'll see what it looks like as amended. Get it to the technical people. Get it to the engineers. And it may be that what they present, five or six things are really wordsmithing is what we kinda call it sometimes to make sure that the words we're using everybody, there's no unintended consequences. The real fear we have is the unintended consequences if this gets rushed through in its current form is that
 the tweets that the city has sent out that says we're bringing 5G community, we're bringing it to you soon. We have an ordinance. If you get that in and in six months nobody has come,
 The unintended consequence was rushing this through on November 7th, 2017 rather than waiting until December 5th could actually delay the process months and months. We want to invest in the community and I think there's a common interest. We're not challenging the money. It's just a matter of clarity is what we're trying to get. We are real close as Mr. Stevenson said, real close and it's a lot closer now than
 After 3-27, when we got this, here's what it really looks like at this point, it's a lot closer than it was maybe a week ago because there were more uncertainties. But now that we see, it really allows us to make constructive comments. We're only asking for a constructive delay, not something to say reopen bags of analysis or reopen whole new issues. It's to make sure that we hadn't put something in there that's going to inhibit investment in the community.
 And I do appreciate, Mayor, appreciate the time and appreciate the council's consideration. Thank you. You're welcome. Who else? Thank you, Mr. Mayor and members of the council. My name is Brent Stevenson. I'm representing T-Mobile here. In the process of developing public policy, today we were still on the phone at 430 with your staff trying to clarify some of the thoughts and nuances of this ordinance. In respect to the gentleman, Mr. Hall, saying yes, he's read and researched this. I'm sure he has.
 The thing about it is a couple of weeks, 14, 15, 20 days, whatever that may be, maybe it's not amenable to this council. But when this ordinance goes up as it is to the people that are going to be making recommendations to companies to make investments and are going to have so much money to invest.
 There's articles written, I just hit the news in Forbes magazine on Friday, said those communities that have the best ordinances are going to be first in line. Those municipalities and those jurisdictions that don't have the best ordinances are going to be put to a second tier or maybe even the third tier. I've been involved in governmental affairs and economic development in this state for 35 years, all over this state with companies. And when they tell you that that's what they mean, they usually mean it.
 And in this case, that's the situation. But I've also heard from these companies they want to come to Fayetteville. All three of us have indicated we want to come to Fayetteville given the right set of circumstance. This right here is just for clarification. Councilman Kenyon, I appreciate your comments and the idea that the staff has put in countless hours.
 but sometimes words make a big difference when you're talking about technology, new technology, and the first technology that comes out usually gets surpassed by something else. So we're just trying to make sure that the technology and the public policy can match up, and just a couple weeks to try to make that happen would be much appreciated. And thank you for your time tonight. Okay, who else would like to address us? Hello, thank you again. Marcus Hall from Poplar Street here in Fayetteville. I just want to comment one more time here about technology.
 I just can't help but feel like these are a little bit of hollow threats in these kind of statements. I've read it, and now I'm hearing it. I just, this is a very lucrative arena. And to think that any of these people that are here, these carriers who are customers of more than one of them, would turn their back on this market because of you passing tonight. It's kind of, it's a little bit...
 disingenuous. I see it that way, Mayor. Excuse me. I think there's plenty of investments that will come into this community. 5G has not even been invented yet. We don't even know what the protocols are. We won't even know that probably till halfway through next year and then Erickson and Nokia and whoever will start building the equipment to put in. So this is not so much about
 the technology side of things because you can't adapt for what's not even invented yet this is a current technology can be used in these cells and that's that's probably where we'll start and that's where their interest is
 However, the basis of this, I believe, is important to our community and important to keep us as a leader. I like to be a leader, and that's why I'm here tonight. I want to see our community be a leader. I hope I represent what is Fayetteville. And so I apologize if that comes across as a little bit...
 insulting or something to the fine people that are here representing our carriers, because I sure appreciate them. I want to make sure my phone works well, and if they need to, whatever they need to keep me. In fact, I have noticed a little degradation in our service lately, and I believe that's because of the
 of some of the crowding, and I know nothing about it. I'm telling you, I don't know anything about this technology, but I do know about investment, and I do know about opportunities in the community, and trying to maximize investments with aesthetics, and I am all for the aesthetics of this and keeping you guys there. I don't see anything, I mean, we can talk about words need to be changes, and different words be used different, and like
 Mr. Kenyon said those can be addressed later. We can get that all cleared up before we have a big threat there. But what we can't do is sit around here and wait and wait and wait. I'd like to see it passed, and I just want to reiterate that. Thank you once again for your time, and thank you for the providers for being here for sure. Thank you. Thank you, Marcus. Who else would like to address us on this?
 Kathy Foraker, AT&T, and thank you so much for your time tonight. I want to explain a little bit about working with a big company. As we worked with staff and many of you, these aren't decisions I get to make. I don't. I want it here. I live here. I work here. I want small cell and I want 5G here.
 Just this afternoon, we made so much progress on this ordinance, but I might have to have Blake help me here, but I think from 3.30 to 4.30, we had four versions. It's very complicated, you guys, and we had the attorneys on the phone.
 from all three companies looking at the language, trying to catch every little nuance that's going to make a huge difference in deploying the technology. And what would typically happen is we would take the language back. We would have our RAN engineers review it to make sure that we are not in that world
 didn't miss something. That's what we're asking. We're asking to make sure the language is as best that it can be so that we can deploy properly in the city of Fayetteville. We're not trying to be disingenuous. We want to invest in the community. I want to remind
 U-verse, when U-verse came, I came before you guys, and we negotiated a U-verse contract so that we could provide telephone service, I mean, not telephone, television service in Fedville. And we said, we don't want the city to lose money, so we're going to match what you're getting on your cable franchise. We matched it penny for penny. Behind that came a state law. And what did we do as AT&T? We followed the ordinance that was passed here.
 The city decided to move your television station. We came in and we moved all the facilities at no charge to the city. We try to be really good corporate citizens. So we are not creating fluff here when we say we need a little time. Four versions in one afternoon, it's just a little bit hard to absorb with that many people on a phone call. So we're just asking to make sure that the ordinance is as good as it can be. And again, I cannot...
 Mayor, I can't thank you enough for your staff. They've been wonderful today. Council members, we thank you for the time you've given us. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Hey there, I'm Brian Adams. I live at 61 Shipley Alley here in Fayetteville and I'm also a contracted employee for Verizon. And I just sort of want to reiterate very briefly what Kathy just said. You know, we did, we had a wonderful afternoon with staff and first of all, I do want to thank staff so much for the numerous changes that they have made. They've been an absolute pleasure to work with through the entire process.
 But I do want to sort of reiterate the fact that, you know, as we had these conversations today, you had lawyers and lobbyists on the phone. And that's just sort of the nature of this beast. And we very much need more time for the engineers to take a look at the language. And from Verizon's perspective, I think Verizon is pretty pleased with the spirit of the technology.
 of the ordinance and I think they're looking forward to making this investment. And this is not about changing for Verizon, this is not about changing stealth requirements or at this point spacing requirements, this is about getting the engineering correct. So I just wanna make that point and thank you for your time and your consideration. Thank you, who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Mark.
 I'd like to hear from our staff as far as the integration of what we have before us, the information regarding technology as well as the integration in our current standards with our UDC because that's what we've got to balance here.
 Do you have an insight on that? That's probably a better question for our planning division. I will say that we try to incorporate as much language from the UDC as possible. So, for example, we copied and pasted the definition of stealth technology from the UDC into this. Because that's what I was doing. I was trying to look at the balance between the current UDC, which –
 Heaven knows we have to go back and revise that regularly in order to meet the changes in the community. But we also recognize that it's there for a reason, and I would hate to impair our logic in establishing standards already in the code. Correct. So, yeah, a lot of the definitions are different.
 you know moved over carried over from the udc we've adopted our construction management standards the process for obtaining a new facility on private property is is just adopting the conditional use standard and process for cell towers so there's a lot of carryover from the udc into this ordinance we didn't want to stray too far from language our staff is already comfortable with a language that you have passed in in the past
 So we're not trying to stray too far, but also recognize that this is a new brand new area. And there are a lot of things that had to come into play for this. I would like to respond to a couple of points.
 There were two copies of the ordinance that I emailed to Kathy this afternoon. One had some old language from a variance procedure that had been updated. That was the only difference, and that was not an issue that we talked about at all today, other than me saying this was the change between the first version I sent and the second version. We actually loosened the language based upon the planning director's recommendation. We moved from an undue hardship version.
 Standard to a difficult to provide service standard. So that was the only difference between those two versions The definitions haven't changed other than us adding the definition of stealth technology from the very beginning This is you know early on we heard from AT&T and their model ordinance that they liked I think it was the AT&T ordinance they wanted a specific definition of support structure and
 And what we've done is incorporate that kind of support structure within the definition of telecommunications facilities. So when we're talking about a facility, a facility includes the structure that supports it, but it's also the antenna, the meter, the wires, the holes in the ground. All of that is the facility. So the intent of the ordinance is that a structure is a support structure and a facility is all of it.
 You know, we could add definitions all day long. We could end up with 10 pages of definitions. I don't think that's necessary because we've got staff who is knowledgeable, they're comfortable with the language, and they can work with the providers if there are any questions. And if there remain questions, they have the ability to appeal to you. Anybody else? John. Hello, Mr. Mayor. Hello, everyone. During the 1980s, I had a vision of building a radio network. I'm a CPA attorney.
 But during the 1980s, I learned a lot about broadcast. There are two forms of broadcast, frequency modulation and amplitude modulation. For short, we call it FM and AM. I know you don't want a technical lesson here. I have a lot of experience, a whole decade in that area. FM travels line of sight. The taller the tower, the taller the antenna, the further it goes. So when we're talking about an ordinance that places a height restriction of 5 feet above the pole or 10 feet above the pole...
 those can have a massive impact on the service area of the antenna. Some of these things were just negotiated at 4.30 this afternoon. Most professionals stop working at 4.30 or 5. There's no way the engineers for these providers, these carriers, could have reviewed the technical impact of what we changed at 4.30 this afternoon. I saw these changes for the first time tonight.
 I need time to digest these. I think we all need time to digest these. One of our speakers tonight told us that 5G hasn't even been invented yet. If the service hasn't been invented, what does another two weeks or three weeks matter? Why don't we wait and do it right the first time? The bigger point is Councilman Long and Councilwoman Marsh are not here. Councilman Tennant saw the need to recuse himself.
 We're working with a very diminished city council. I think because of Councilman Tennant's recusal, which I think is appropriate and right, I don't think we should vote on this while two of our other members are absent. I think we're functioning on six cylinders or five cylinders. It should be eight cylinders or at least seven. Those are all reasons to slow this down and do it right. We change technical aspects when we change the height of the antenna.
 That really needs to be evaluated by their engineers. I think we can, I mean, I applaud our staff and the administration, Mr. Mayor, your willingness to work with the providers. I don't think we're denigrating our environment to any great degree with our stealth requirements, with our spacing requirements, with our heist requirements. I think we're well-protected.
 It's just, I think, in fairness to the people who are going to be making the investment in our city, we should give them some time to evaluate the changes that were made even this afternoon. I just feel like changes that were made at 4.30 we're voting on tonight at 6.30, two hours later, is a rushed kind of hurried sort of thing. I'd rather see us hold it here. So I'd move to table it for now. Okay. So, John, you have a motion to type. Is there a second? Okay.
 I'll second the motion. Okay. All right. We have a motion and a second to table. Any discussion on that? Let's see. John, are you still wanting to? Okay. Matthew. Yeah, so I think that to...
 Both parties throughout this so far have demonstrated quite a bit of good faith, and it seems like the intention is for that to continue. I want to be very plain. I'm ready to vote on this tonight. I think it's a good ordinance. I think we've been very diligent in its drafting process.
 And I also think that if the representatives, the industry representatives that were in the room had the ability to make the decision that they would vote yes for it too, that's my sense. Please stop me if I'm putting words in your mouth. So I can understand and appreciate that some of these things might need to be checked by a larger bureaucracy.
 So that's my first reason. Secondly, I don't see the harm in two weeks, although I'm personally a little frustrated by waiting a little bit longer. I don't see that there's actual harm that's done if we do wait. I don't see that there's imminent preemption legislation, which would be my primary concern about waiting. And thirdly, I share Alderman Latour's...
 A description of the council and our absentee members right now and what that means for the vote and the legitimacy of the vote. So in any case, for all those reasons, I second the motion. But I don't really see myself, unless there's some very unforeseen circumstance, me voting to table it for another two weeks. Thank you, Mayor.
 Couple of things. One, I want to thank Kathy. I think back in the legislative session when AT&T introduced a bill, we talked about the importance of having the communities be able to weigh in and talk about what's important to them. And they gave us a chance to do that by not running the bill. And we've tried to have this conversation with really anybody and everybody who has come forward.
 I think
 Blake and Susan and Keith have done a fantastic job of trying to listen to everyone and continuing to negotiate. I love the analogy I heard today. It's like whack-a-mole. Every time we hit one, then we've got another item popping up somewhere else. And so I think everybody gets to a frustration point where you feel like, you know, are we ever going to be able to move forward or is this just a game to keep playing, so to speak? But it sounds like a lot of progress was made there.
 today. I think it's a very fair assessment. I don't know enough about, this is like an HR guy trying to think about a technical telecommunications or cabling business or other things. That's not my expertise as your Chief of Staff.
 And I don't know what engineers would look at, but hearing Alderman Latour's analogy, I can appreciate that there might be something related to the height. I don't think that two weeks are going to kill us. I really appreciate Alderman Kenyon or Councilmember Kenyon. Sorry, y'all's new title. Thank you.
 trying to get us pushed forward because we have been working on this many, many months. And if we truly feel like that we can get there in two weeks as staff, I think we're fine waiting for the next meeting as well. But if we do that on everybody being here, I can just tell you, thinking back over time, it's harder for me to think of a meeting where you're all here than it is for one where you're absent.
 And I don't mean that derogatorily. I'm just saying there will always be some seat. So I know that we have vacations and trips, particularly this time of year, that come up. So I hope if you do table this, and we would encourage you to do so, to give them the adequate time for their engineering teams to do it. Because I will agree that all we've done is talk with lawyers and lobbyists.
 And I do think it's important that, you know, my experience is the people that know best are the people actually doing the work and putting it up, even within our own organization. So we're comfortable with that change. I want to encourage you and I will remind you in two weeks that we will be ready to go at that point, assuming some non-unforeseen issue. Okay, anybody? Adele, please.
 Well, Mayor, I just want to say that I agree and I appreciate so much our Chief of Staff weighing in because the last time he spoke with us, he was quite frustrated that it was going on and on and on. So I was delighted to hear that because I agree two weeks is not going to, you know, make or break us. And I'm delighted to do that. So I will be voting to table. Thank you. Okay, Mark. Okay.
 I'm going to respect that wish also, but I did want to be very clear of my frustration and the expectation that we're not going to diminish the integration of our well-established design standards and our UDC here in our community. But I was a little forceful, and I am going to be a little forceful, because I do come from a corporate background where I dealt with state and federal accounts, and I know the more that...
 was offered the more we asked. That was my job. And then we would reach the ultimate compromise so I could get the contract and get the business going. And that's what we've seen here and I have such respect for that because it is the corporate entity that has to provide the service in order to move forward. So it might seem like I'm changing my tune here, I'm not. I am ready to get on with this, but
 I'm going to respect the notion that we did rush through this. I came in early to review it, and I know that everyone didn't have the opportunity to do that, but I'm not going to be complacent about the well-established UDC that we have in place that defines our community and our community standards here in our city. So I just wanted to get that on public record. Thank you.
 And Mark, I can assure you the mayor's direction to the staff is to maintain the community aesthetics and the code items that are so important and already passed and supported by staff.
 the council majority, and we have no intention of compromising that, and we do appreciate your leadership tonight. We're not trying to throw you under the bus. We would have loved to have had it go forward, but I think there's a reasonable expectation to wait and let their engineers assess. But thank you. I want to say something here, and I don't – tabling is what everybody wants to do. I'm okay with that. But I'm going to tell you something. This has been going on for months and months and months.
 Now, my mother used to have a saying, it's like a piece of tough meat. The more you seem to chew it, the bigger it gets. And I have come to a point where this needs to end. Now, I'll go ahead and do the tabling thing for two weeks. I agree with John and his points. I had not seen this before. I've not had time to digest it either. I think that's a good point.
 I think Mark makes a great point because I will tell you this, this is not the first time I've seen cell towers at the council. I go back to 2001, and I have seen these before. Now, I'm all in favor of 5G and the latest thing, but I will tell you something. The day that our citizens see great big giant poles going up in our right-of-way in this city, they're going to say something about that.
 They will. So we need to produce the kind of sales that is not something that's intrusive. Now, you providers know what I'm talking about here. You understand this community and what we stand for. Now, I'll go ahead and go along with this for two weeks. I want to get this thing done in a couple of weeks. I'm glad to see these amendments.
 We it's not I think Blake and Susan would also agree. This is not like we started last Tuesday on this We have been a while on this and I want to see this finished
 But I do believe those were good points by John on we received this tonight, and I think we need time to digest it, and I certainly agree with Mark on the aesthetics in this city and our UDC. We're going to protect that. I want everybody to understand that. I think you know me well enough to know that I will. So...
 Thank you all, though, for working together and moving this thing forward. So what are we going to table this for, two weeks? Two weeks. Two weeks. Everybody negotiate well. All right. Do we need to vote on it? Yes, we do. Do we have most in a second on the table? All right. Sandra, would you please do have any final comments? Yes.
 Mayor, could I just ask for one point of clarification? We tabled for two weeks. Could we set a deadline, please, for provider feedback on this existing document so that we have time to turn it around? I think that's a really good point, y'all. We got this worked out at 3.30 or 4.30. Let's get this done a little quicker. I'm sure you can figure it out in four or five days, can't you? I know you can. You have that capability. Thank you.
 So by the agenda session so they could have all their suggestions? Well, that would be good. That's a week away. All right? Very good. Okay. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Ken? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Gray? Yes. Motion passed. All right. Let's see. Number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property discovery zone and petition RZN 17-5925 for approximately 1.73 acres. Located at 820 South Governing Avenue from RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, MSC Main Street Center and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Adela? So moved. Do we have a second? Second.
 Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? I think that's the motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Is it the third and final one? My mistake. Okay, you're absolutely right. So let's readjust here. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Adela? I move that we go to the third and final reading. Justin? Second. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Second. Second.
 Yes. Eddie? Yes. Kenneth? Yes. Josh? Yes. Latour? Yes. Ray? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 17-5925, for approximately 1.73 acres, located at 820 South Government Avenue, from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 Main Street Center and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial. Okay. Staff got anything new on this? No, sir. Okay. Any questions from the City Council? Matthew? Yes. I think this probably didn't get decided last time because I raised a concern. And staff suggested...
 or drafted some language that would allow legacy uses or expansions of legacy uses like this by right. I'm a little uneasy, although I would support that approach, I'm a little uneasy with it because there's no telling if it's got unintended consequences with other legacy uses. I asked staff, too, if there had been discussions about rezoning this to downtown general or community services, which I think would be...
 more in line with the plans that we've adopted and with the abutting parcels. And they indicated those discussions had been had, but the applicant opted not to do it because that would also require them to get a conditional use permit from the Planning Commission after the rezoning, and so you'd have to go through two application processes.
 I understand that, but I still think that that should have been the best approach. I'm not going to make a motion tonight, but I might second one if somebody else feels similarly. I don't think I can support this as it's presented to us, if only because I think it sets a bad precedent. I think that I've got absolutely nothing against the business or even the proposed expansion, but to rezone this.
 I think it gets dangerously close to spot zoning considering the planes that we've already got for the area. The concerns I raised last time about how this would allow a petroleum storage facility by right, that's probably a very minor, there's a very minor chance of that happening. I don't want to raise that as a red herring that anybody should do the chicken little thing with.
 but nevertheless i do think it is a it is a risk or highlights the risk and most especially i'm concerned about removing the right for residential to happen there i think that increases the burden for for redevelopment in the future it's a it introduces a new barrier that shouldn't be there
 And that's probably my primary concern, even though I expect any future council would probably rezone it as a formality to allow residential uses in the future. I don't think it's good practice to introduce a new barrier for future redevelopment that's consistent with our plans. So in any case, that's where I stand on it. If there are other council members that feel the same way, there might be a solution or two. But otherwise, I'm content to say my piece about it.
 Okay, anybody else have any comments for our opening up for public comment? Is the applicant here with you? If he'd like to say anything more to the council. Okay. All right. What public comment do we have on this? So now I'll bring it back to the council. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Eddie. No. Bennett. Yes. Bunch. Yes. McHare. Yes. Gray. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. All right, new business, number one, a resolution to award bid number 17-49 to authorize the purchase of five international 7300 4x2 recycling trucks with can bodies from Diamond International Trucks Incorporated, DBA, Summit Truck Group of Lowell, Arkansas, and a total amount of $845,500 for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division. Terry. Terry.
 Yes, Mayor, Council. These are five trucks that we...
 had delayed over the last three years due to undertaking the master planning process and recycling and trash and we had waited for the outcome to see which direction you all sent us at that point having made decisions to stay with our curbside recycling program we now need to get these in the fleet as the rest of them are getting pretty aged and we're starting to have issues with breakdowns so
 We're just bringing these forward to get kind of caught up over the last three years and get some new trucks for our employees and make it more efficient for us to do our work. Okay. What questions do we have for Terry on this? John. Terry, the employees that manage and operate our recycling program, what is our turnover rate among those people? I'm going to probably let Kyle do the honors.
 Better answer for that. He's the operation manager for recycling and trash. I'm just looking for a ballpark figure. It doesn't have to be precise. He deals with that every day. Okay. I do not. Kyle McCarty, operations supervisor. So far this year, we've had...
 probably eight positions open within the recycling field. We've had a tough time staying fully staffed at that point. We thought we were at the present time and then we've got other recyclers that are moving on to other positions so that's where we are right now. What would be the reasons for a high turnover rate in your operations? Is there a lot of lifting? Is it a difficult job? Are there high risks like being in traffic? Well it's most definitely a difficult job.
 They're outside in the elements every day. The style of truck that we use is one where the drivers are outside of the truck at every single stop. They pick up every single bend, so every bit of weight that gets put onto that truck is something that their back is lifted. Oftentimes, you know, 500 plus bends a day to the tune of, you know, a ton and a half to
 Even two tons of recyclable materials a day spread across, you know, that's per truck, you know, 11 11 routes per day Dad if I pick up 2,000 pounds a year Thank you. Yes, sir Any other questions by the council
 Adele. Terry, I believe that you told us that you all have looked at different styles of trucks to try to do something that might be easier on the workers. Is that correct? Yeah, it's been brought up. I mean, we've attended over the last two years. We've gone to Waste Expo. Both Jeff Coles and I have both attended that over the last two years. We've looked at every available truck there.
 we've talked to the manufacturer of Kahn that makes these particular trucks that we use these have been greatly improved over trucks that we started the program with way back had much higher reaching and all that we adjusted both where the employee did not have to step up and down on the truck and also got it where it was lower so that we weren't having as many shoulder injuries from people repetitively doing things over hand so we've
 We've improved trucks as best we can, trying to do our curbside program in the manner that we do it. We've looked at other types of trucks also. It's just we've not found anything that fits the ability to pick up the eight different types of items we do now.
 in the best possible manner that we can. So we've reduced the wear and tear on employees as much as we can while also still providing the services the citizens wanted. Thank you.
 Terry, did you get any input from the employees about the top truck? Did you look at it? What? Kyle. That's more. He's involved with them every day. He saw that image. Okay. I'm sorry. What was the question? The question is I know that there's some talk about the trough trucks. Yes, sir. What would be – did the employees prefer that or the trucks that we have are what –
 Well, they're working it every day. Right. We haven't had the opportunity to have a demo truck provided to the city for our drivers to be able to use. Some of the drawbacks that came with that are a Labrie is a brand of a trough truck. They advertise that they can sort up to seven different items.
 We actually sat down and met with them during this bidding process because they were interested in trying to accommodate our needs with the trough truck that they had. We sat down on multiple occasions, talked to their engineers on the telephone, and they were able to accommodate our eight commodity need.
 One thing that we've went to over the last few years with being able to take our glass to ripple glass is we combine the three shades of glass to clear the brown and the green. I don't foresee that being something that we have to go back to, but should we, then we'd be back to 10 commodities and limited by the truck.
 the space requirements that are available or the space that's available in the trough of a truck limits us to what we already take with our cardboard program once you break it down there's a little over two yards worth of storage that they offer in the trough load and once it's full then you dump it into the top of the truck all of the commodities at the same time so that's
 If you were to fill up one bin faster than the rest of them, you're dumping all of them at the same time. But the cardboard slots seem to be a challenge for us because we accept cardboard. We give restrictions of three to five foot in size. We're able to accommodate that by loading it into the side of the trucks that we have now. But the way the trough truck works is the only way to load it into the body of the truck is to first put it in the trough and then to dump it.
 So by the time you break it up, you average somewhere around 40 gallons or so worth of storage per division in the trough. So I think there are some positives. You get to load everything about waste level, where right now we start just over waste level. And the fuller the truck gets, then the higher we're having to load material.
 The trough truck doesn't provide a means to compact the plastics, which takes up so much room because of the air volume in the bottles and milk jugs. The can trucks that we currently use have two compactors, one for each plastic that we accept, and they can hold 15.5 cubic yards in each compactor, which only takes up about a little over 26 inches of frame length. So to be able to utilize the compactors that we have,
 compared to what the trough trucks, there was some limitations based off of size and available space.
 So you're saying you don't have enough space for the cardboard and you can't enough space for the plastics Yes, sir. I would say I would say the plastics is the highest because loading it into the trough truck There's not a compaction system similar to what we have You can move the partitions that are inside the body to try to optimize what space you use but the overall capacity of the trough truck is
 that they bid was 41 cubic yards. We're able to do 30 yards worth of plastics on our truck, so if we loaded that into that truck, we're taking over half the space just for two of our commodities. Loading the cardboard, again, was a difficult option to be able to get it to lay in the truck flat to make for the more room. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 The trough trucks, they were bid. When these were bid, there was one bid. It was $18,000 per truck higher also for the one that they did bid on. I assume this has been through the Equipment Committee. It has. Okay. What public comment do we have? Everybody gets one turn to microphone. You get five minutes. Yes.
 Keep your remarks directed to me. Don't engage a council member. Anybody in the public, you can get more time if a council member makes a motion and a vote of the council to give you more time. They'll decide how much time that is. You can't come back if a council wants to ask you questions. I hope everybody has gotten that. So let's begin. Please introduce yourself and where you live. Louise Mann, 629 Gray Avenue, Milwaukee.
 This is an article from EarthFix, which is a public media partnership of Oregon Public Radio. It says Oregon regulators have received more than a dozen requests from companies that want to throw recyclable materials into the landfills. They're expecting more requests to throw things in the landfill as the China crackdown continues. The head of the...
 Julie Miller of the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality says, there's so much trash mixed in with our recycling that no companies in the U.S. will buy the material. China has been willing to buy the stuff that had no market in the U.S. in the past, but those days are over.
 You all know I'm talking about single stream. And thank goodness Fayetteville did not get into that mess where all the recyclables are thrown in the same compartment truck. I assume Brian can correct me that we're under 5% contamination with our multi-stream truck.
 With the truck we have now, aren't we under 5% contamination? Louise, stay with me, and then we'll get you questions. Oh, excuse me. Okay. Hey, Lionel, the question is, are we under 5% contamination? The Chinese are saying they want 3% or less, and I'm betting that we are probably at 3% because every bin is inspected before it's empty. Okay.
 Okay. Okay. So I emailed you, Lionel, and probably a couple other folks asking about the Port Townsend trough trucks. And I want to be sure everybody understands what those are.
 I was out there for about six weeks, so I watched this every week. We had three bins. One was paper, one was metal and plastic containers, and one was glass. The thing that impressed me about the trucks was that I did not see the recycle fella have to do any heavy lifting because he had three small bins outside.
 He could take one small bin and dump it in the trough, and the trough had a hydraulic lift. So there was none of this individual sorting, which causes, of course, repetitive motion syndrome. I would suggest they put those three bins on wheels so he wouldn't have to bend all the way to the ground to pick up those smaller bins. Does that make sense? You see what I'm... Is that making sense? Okay. So this is why I ask you all to look at it. And...
 My questions are that how are the trucks that we're going to order tonight, not order tonight, but approve of tonight, how are they going to reduce employee turnover if our guys still have to toss each individual item into the truck? We're still going to have a problem with repetitive motion syndrome. We're still going to have the guys picking up one 18-gallon bin every,
 which I think you've kind of worked with because you're encouraging people to put newspaper in sacks and different things in sacks. We live in the heart of the creative business universe. If there is any city in this country that could design the perfect curbsort truck that would provide the end users with 3% or less contamination...
 and would take better care of recycling workers, I think Fayetteville is that town. My concern is that we're buying these trucks, you're getting ready to do the rate study, which is, I know you've been wanting to do it for a long time, the rate study's way overdue. I'm concerned that in six months when the rate study is complete, we're going to be told we have to go to single stream, and I'm wondering who's going to want to buy these trucks,
 because they're not the best for employees. So these are my concerns. So I just wanted to be sure that we have explored the trough truck situation as much as we can today
 And I don't accept it when somebody says they can't give us exactly what we need because of our location in the United States with J.B. Hunt and Walmart and all the transportation efforts that are made here. I think that Fayetteville should be able to give the specs that are the best for our employees, and we should be able to get them made. Thank you. Thank you, Louise. Okay, who else would like to address us on this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Louise's question was, is our contamination rate under 5%? I said, Louise, you asked, is our contamination rate under 5%? Okay, we'll find out. We did, Brian Pugh, Waste Reduction Coordinator, City of Fayetteville. When we did this pilot last year, when we,
 Actually picked up all the materials in the bins, took it back, weighed it, and that it was actually closer to 2% of things that were in the bin that were not recyclable. That's good. What Louise had mentioned here was, yeah. So, you know, we don't have any...
 I doubt that our recycling program provides clean materials. Just to kind of reiterate some of the questions that she had, how are the trucks going to reduce turnover? Well, I don't think they're going to.
 Our trucks are what they are and our drivers have to get out and sort this material. It's not a job for everybody. I know I couldn't do it. I'm not young enough, strong enough to get out physically and do that every day. But the council decided back in February with our diversion plan that we were going to stick with our program the way it is and we've been delayed with these purchase of the trucks.
 The city is growing. We need these trucks. We want to expand our collections. We need these trucks today. Even if we order them tomorrow, we're looking at, what, eight to ten months before we get these trucks. So I would just encourage the council to let us buy these trucks so we can do the work that you've asked us to do with our diversion plans. So as far as
 After the rate study, what's going to happen that we're moving to single stream? I don't believe that's even a consideration with this council at this point. We were told that we were not to prioritize single stream in the next 10 years, and we're not going to do that. We're going to continue with the program that we have, and we're going to make the best of it, and we're going to try to treat our workers the best we can with the equipment that we have. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, what about the bins on wheels? I know that Louise mentioned that. Have you all looked at anything like that? The bins on wheels...
 You know, when I started with the city back in 2002, I think we were spending close to $30,000 a year on the purchase of 18-gallon bins. That was not anything to do with any wheeled carts or anything of that nature. Now it's 2017. We've encouraged the citizens to put paper items in one bin, bottles and cans in another bin. So we've actually had to double the purchases of the
 bins that we have in our program. So we're spending close to about $55,000 a year now on just these containers for the program. If we were to switch that, go to a stackable system that has some kind of a cart dolly on that, the cost would be a lot higher than what it is currently. So that's added cost to the program. And to be quite honest with you, I don't think
 making citizens sort more is going to increase participation. The way we have it now, most people, we have 55% of the population participating, and that's good. We'd like to get it higher than that, but if we make it more cumbersome for them to do, I don't believe they're going to do it. Okay. Mark, I believe you had a question or...
 Well, I'll wait. Terry, do you have something to add to this? I just want Brian to add. It's brought up about Fort Townsend and the system they use. Brian and Jeff Coles. And Drew. And Drew. Anyway, folks gave them a call to the people that...
 do their recycling, so I wanted him to explain what he was told by them, what they actually do. Right, so in Port Townsend, I don't know when you hear the term trough truck, which if you might understand it, it's a recycling truck that has a trough on the curbside
 of the truck. So in Port Townsend, what we were told is they have that separated into four different areas. Glass is separated. Cardboard is separated. Mixed paper is separated. Bottles and cans go together. And when they told us that the bottles and cans were brought back to their facility and sent to a single stream facility for further processing, we just assumed that that was not something that council wanted us to pursue. That's a good point.
 Okay. What else do you have, Mark? Okay. I want to be loud and clear about this. We looked at single stream and we decided not to do single stream for the next 10 years. It went to committee, it came to council, and that's where we stand. To speculate on that is simply a wild speculation.
 Also, what we also know in our operations is we have to look at the efficiencies because this is an enterprise budget. We are looking at a...
 Rate study and so we will be using this model that we have with these trucks and curbside sorting To set the rate as we go forward So this is going to set the baseline the standard and the operational cost associated with the activity That's going to be imperative as we look at the total cost of
 of the recycling program. It is no secret that our recycling program costs more than what we make off of it. That's not a secret. We're doing it because it's the right thing to do. The point I'm making here is we have put off this purchase for so long that our current
 Fleet of vehicles has fallen apart. We cannot keep the vehicles on the road We've looked at every option. We've looked at every opportunity to be efficient We've looked at managing the situation so that our recyclables are Acceptable in the market. Do you have a Louise? I'll bring you up if you have a comment on that Okay, come and tell me because yeah sure council members bring you back in my opinion. Let me back up. I
 St. Paul's did a program called Aging in Fayetteville, and after Lionel spoke, Beth Barham got up and showed a chart, and it showed that the generation that's leaving Fayetteville is 60 years of age and older. As a part of the generation that's exiting Fayetteville and in the process of becoming an absentee landlord, I can only speak for myself. I am not happy about paying 9% sales tax when I see the process that was used to study single-stream.
 Over the past two years, the guys that run these trucks could have designed the perfect truck that could have been a model for the nation, because I know this staff is smart enough to know that the China ban was on the way. Anybody in recycling knew that single stream is a mess, and we've been dumping on countries that don't have good environmental or child labor laws.
 I think we wasted the past two years, and I think we wasted money, and I think we're going to see more 60 and older people leaving. And while some people will say good riddance,
 Others will say we're going to be losing money, experience, and volunteers. And if people think that I'm just negative, Google Louise Mann resume, and you will see a full page of the donations I have made to this community in the area of recycling. And this staff has used my ideas, and it has benefited the city. Thank you.
 Thank you, Louise. There's no question about it, Ms. Mann, that we have ultimate respect for you and your information. You have been one of the best educators for me as I stepped in the position of chairing this committee, and I really do respect you for that. But what we're talking about tonight is purchasing vehicles so that we can continue a program based on the information that we have. That's what we're talking about tonight.
 And so we have to move forward and get these into operations so that we can maintain a fleet, so that we can maintain curbside sorting, and so that we can maintain operations that are as efficient as possible with what we have in front of us to deal with. And that is after a lot of discussion and consideration by our committee.
 a lot of input with the community, our study, which the RFP for our study said to look at every option. That was the RFP. It was approved. We looked at every option and single stream was decided what we were going to accept and what we adopted. And so that is how we're moving forward and these trucks will allow us to do that with a low contamination rate, with the best efficiency, and we've got to take care of it now
 Because we don't have a fleet to operate on the streets today and keep our operations with continuity. So what we're talking about today is simply buying some trucks. Thanks. Okay. John. John.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm going to support the purchase of these trucks. We're in a series, we're in a system, and we do need the trucks. And we have to make some assumptions that we're going to continue like we've been going along. And that was the main thing when these trucks first hit my desk, was to ask Terry, is this the same system or are we changing things? He assured me it's the same system, it's just a newer model. So I'm going to support that.
 Let me say this about Ms. Mann. She and I probably vote for different candidates, okay? But I can see value in what she's teaching us here. And she is a teacher, okay, whether she's being paid for it or not. She's thinking outside the box. We have a problem with repetitive motion syndrome. If the trough truck has the ability to let me pick up a bin and dump it into the trough and it puts it in a bin according to glass or can or paper,
 Why not automate that process and put an arm on the truck and have three bins? Now, we're asking consumers to put their, to sort. My wife, we have about eight bins at my house. And my wife and my children usually sort. Okay.
 Just to be kind to our recycle guy. Okay? But you could actually have an arm where the driver and the employee would not get out of the truck, just like in a trash truck. If he could just flip a switch to say, dump this into another bin, he could sort it that way. That's just thinking outside the box. And Louise is the one that's making us think outside the box. Of course, we need a manufacturer to take up your ideas. That would make it a lot easier for us to buy those trucks. But it seems to me that
 Going from a trough truck where you can manually dump a bin and then have it go into a certain place on the truck, and then flip a switch and have it go someplace else on the truck when you dump another bin manually, you can do the same thing with an arm and just dump bins like that and the driver never gets out of the truck. And we still maintain the integrity of the contamination rate.
 and we eliminate all these repetitive motions for our drivers. I think what we're talking about has not been invented yet or has not been manufactured yet, but it takes discussions like this where we're talking outside the box where we have a visionary among us who says we need to move beyond where we are now. I'm supporting the trucks that we're buying tonight. We have to keep that going, but now there's been a seed planted in all of our minds that there may be a better way of doing it. I think that's what Louise is trying to say.
 Thank you. Okay. Don. Yes, counsel. I agree with Councilmember Latour. I think Louise is probably our resident expert in recycling in Northwest Arkansas, all Arkansas, or U.S., I guess I'll say. I visited with her. She had a great way to teach me. The first thing she did is she asked me to teach a trash class.
 to learn about everything that Fayetteville did. It was the best learning experience I had about
 Really learning the solid waste division I ended up working in the division a year and a half at the retirement of our director So I could really Understand it I worked for a mayor who had zero interest in single strain My boss told me before we started this process that he wasn't ready To go down that road and there would have to be some really compelling information And I think the council came to the same conclusion after looking at everything that it wasn't the right time for that investment and at that direction
 I do want to be clear to everyone that we aren't spending one second on it, first of all. Secondly, I also work for a mayor who used to be the president of a labor union who was interested in employee safety.
 morale, retention, and pay issues. There's probably not one of you setting up there that probably have that as such a core value that he has in everything that he does with employees. He has done since year one of his term, he's met with employees twice a year in every division and given them an open door to say whatever they wanted.
 back when he first started this term. And actually one of the excuses used, I think, about why we wanted to look at single stream by certain elected officials was the number of accidents. And Louise actually FOI'd those accidents
 Way back, I want to say maybe 2009 or 2010 was even the first inquiry. How many are we having? What are we doing? And that was the time period I actually began working in the division. And I started to look at it. And we had an incredible amount of ankle sprains and strains. Foot related, I kept thinking, why are we having so many? And I learned that you stepped up on the truck. And you stepped down. And we tried to solve that problem by having...
 boots that went over your ankle so you couldn't wear shoes that didn't cover that to try to reduce those sprains, but it didn't have the impact in reducing it. And we met with the designer, and we talked about eliminating that step up, which we did. And I think if you look at the history of those claims, you would see that they've reduced dramatically.
 In fact, I believe one of the arguments made when we talked about single stream and its social aspect was that we'd actually seen such a reduction. It wasn't as big a problem as people perceived. Now, we still have repetitive motion syndromes, and that's as much with picking bins up, whether we're putting them in a trough or putting them in a truck. But the thing I want to say to the council, whether we're buying five trucks today or whether we talk about—
 more trucks in the future as we stay with this program is we are very committed as we have been this time to talking to the people who build these trucks about what changes we can make. It's also why you've approved travel and training for our staff to go to these equipment shows to build relationships with the people who designed these things
 to say, here's what we would like to see. That's how we got trucks that compacted plastic. That's how we got trucks that did the cardboard capacity. It's how we were able to deal with tin commodities when we wanted to separate glass to have higher quality for ripple glass and what we were taking.
 We really do try. I mean, it may not seem like it sometimes, but we really are seeking that input. And we bring in equipment. You know, we had a local provider criticize the city for bringing in equipment from Little Rock to see how it operated because he was a local provider who had a different option
 because we saw something we thought would work better for the staff and employees in a safer situation. And so, you know, we don't just do that in transportation. We do it in fleet, we do it in recycling and trash, airport, etc. So I want to say to you, I think we are committed. I think we have a very smart staff. I think we've got people who will test equipment for us. I think the feedback we just had with...
 the people who bid on these trucks, on what design improvements we can do. And we probably need to start now talking about what those revisions could be for the purchase we're going to have a year or two from now. Because designs of automotive vehicles doesn't happen in one bid cycle.
 It requires reengineering and changing plants and doing things as they weld and put these pieces of equipment together. And since we know we're staying in this model, it is even more important that we do that. The other thing I would say to you is that Brenda Reed, our new HR director, is extremely committed to addressing and looking at our staff and our staff retention and recruitment. Right.
 One of our big problems is we don't even have recruiters to go out and identify people, and some jobs have lives on them. Just like the NFL, you don't play when you're 60, and there are certain jobs with physical demands that have changes. We want to extend that. We want career paths for our individuals, even in this division. Yeah.
 So we're committed to that, I guess is the point I want to say to you. We started it even in this discussion. We heard those comments last time. We continue to evaluate them. There are some challenges. We pick up more commodities. We compress items. We don't want to dump as much because going back and forth also has a cost on the rate payer. And it's not to get to single stream. It's to have the most efficient curbside pickup program possible, safest for our worker. And we still have to solve the shoulder issue.
 I mean, it is an it's a real item and repetitiveness in general. The lifting aspect, I think that you heard Kyle talk about. But we're not we're not ignoring the fact that we have to take care of workers, not with this mayor. What other comments do we have? You know, when we look at this single stream.
 Months ago, I think the chief of staff brought an interesting point. I have never been a strong opponent of single stream simply because of the contamination rate. I always had issues with that. Always have. But again, as Louise said, I'm part of the past 60 group, and I was trained to recycle where you go out. I go out every Sunday afternoon, and I separate my glass and my plastics and my paper, just like clockwork.
 It takes me a few minutes to do that now and and you know we looked at some of the trough trucks and stuff, but we couldn't seem to get the Capacity and they're eighteen thousand dollars more than each one of these trucks So I've got to also balance you know the finances of this city too, so Maybe
 You know, we can look at something later on, but right now we put off buying these trucks because we were having the discussion with, if I remember correctly, the single stream versus we're going to keep curbside. Now, I know that there's members of the equipment committee that's sitting here tonight, and I know it went through your committee, and I'm sure you all discussed this. So what was the thoughts there?
 I'm just curious. Well, we listened. We heard many of the same discussion that we've heard tonight about the importance of having these trucks so we can deliver the services. And as I had asked Mr. Terry to report, he told these exact same things to us in the equipment committee, and we felt like we had to buy the trucks.
 Now, we don't have the capacity on the trough trucks, from my understanding, to do the cardboard program like we need to do it. So we got the added expense. Plus, we don't have the same capacity to do the plastic and cardboard that we need to do. So anyway, so I see, John, you had something. Yes, sir. I was just going to answer your question. As Alderman Council Member Gray has pointed out, we did have a discussion. And, of course—
 What I remember was asking Terry was, are we changing our recycle program? Are we staying with the same? And he told me we're staying with the same, and that's all we're doing. So, you know, we approved it. Okay. Sir? I always ask people the question. I know you do, John. If you're promoting, in your heart of hearts, do we really need it? Right. Okay. And he said yes. Yeah, at the –
 equipment committee, we discussed, like Adela and John both said, we heard basically the same thing you've heard tonight. I feel comfortable voting on these trucks because our fleet right now is just –
 You know, it's just barely operating, and if we don't do something pretty quick, we can't do squat, honestly. So, you know, I feel comfortable voting on these trucks. I voted for them at the equipment committee, and I'll vote for them in favor of them tonight as well. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. I bet I'm going to hear a motion pretty soon. We're getting there, I'm sure. So do we have a motion? Sarah.
 You're on the board. So now you're gone. Now Mark. And then. Okay. So John you got the motion. And Sarah you have the second right. Okay. I was. This is a motion to pass the resolution. Yes we're good. Everybody's good. All right. Any final comments from the council.
 Probably not. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Patty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Munch. Yes. Lutcher. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay. Moving right along to number two. An ordinance to waive the requirements to form a competitive bidding through 2022 and to authorize payments to the Arkansas Crime Information Center for fees related to
 to the state computer and teleprocessing transactions in 2017. Kit. Whereas the Arkansas Crime Information Center is solely responsible for the administration of a statewide comprehensive data system that is necessary for the operations of the criminal justice agencies and the City of Fayetteville has relied upon these services for more than 40 years.
 and whereas the cost of services is expected to exceed $20,000 for the first time in 2017. Now therefore be ordained by the City Council City of Fayetteville-Arkshaw section 1
 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives requirements for formal competitive bidding through 2022 and further authorize payments to the Arkansas Crime Information Center for fees related to the state computer and teleprocessing transaction fees in 2017. Okay. Chief? Mayor, Council, this is basically the database that the state –
 deals with and keeps up with that we use in our cars on our dispatch center to access driver's license information and vehicle license information we pay a per transaction fee and as Kit said we believe for the first time in 2017 we're going to go over that $20,000 limit So that was a reason one to bring it forward to to you guys and then the second reason obviously it's the only game in town So we need a bid waiver to do that also.
 I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, we got any questions for the chief on this? All right. Thank you. Any public comment on this? Thanks, Chief. Any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. And so, Adela. Go to second. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding through 2022 and to authorize payments to the Arkansas Crime Information Center for fees related to state computer and teleprocessing transactions in 2017. OK, Adela. Move we go to the third and final reading. John.
 Second motion. We have a motion in the second to go to the third and final read. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. In ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding through 2022 and to authorize payments through the Arkansas Crime Information Center for fees related to the state computer and teleprocessing transactions in 2017.
 Okay, any final comments from the council on this? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Kenneth? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, number three.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5933 for approximately 3.29 acres located at 1324 West Cleveland Street from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation and RIU residential intermediate urban subject to a bill of assurance. Kip.
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from Morris F4 residential single family, four units per acre to neighborhood conservation and residential intermediate urban subject to a bill of assurance.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Andrew. Mayor, this property is on the north side of Cleveland Street. It's just across from the University of Arkansas, just east of Razorback Road. It is adjacent to a fraternity to the east, and it transitions pretty quickly to the University Heights neighborhood adjacent to the west.
 The request is to rezone the western 1.41 acres of the property to NC Neighborhood Conservation, which is a single-family, form-based zoning district, and then rezone the western portion, which is 1.88 acres, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban, and that is also form-based residential zoning that allows for a higher density, a mix of single, two-family, three- and four-family dwellings.
 We feel like the proposal would be compatible with the surrounding land uses. It does allow a transition from the higher density uses at the university and the fraternity to the east into the single family homes adjacent to the west. Having this property of neighborhood conservation on the western portion, I think, provides that transition. There are, as well as mentioned in the reading of the ordinance, offering a bill of assurance.
 to provide a density cap at 18 units per acre. I believe this was offered because when a rezoning was proposed a year or two ago there was quite a bit of public opposition so I think this was something the property owner was attempting to help alleviate concerns from some of the neighbors. This property is designated as a city neighborhood area on our future land use plan map and
 This encourages a variety of different residential uses, single family and mixed density residential. So we feel like the proposal would be in line with the adopted plan. Here's a copy of the plan here. You can see the blue shows city neighborhood area, which is really extending from Garland West towards this area. And you can see the dividing line between the blue and the yellow is where we're anticipating transitioning more and towards lower density. So we are recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission recommended it unanimously.
 And if you have any questions, please let us know. Thank you. Was there any opposition at the Planning Commission to the project? There was not. No public comment at the Planning Commission. All righty then. All right. Is the applicant here? Good evening, Mayor. My name is Paul Jeske. My address is 2820 Riverside Drive South in Salem, Oregon. I grew up in one of those houses. So I have an emotional attachment. I'm sorry.
 I still consider myself a member of the Fayetteville community. I walked to Leverett School. I walked to the university. My father walked to the university. It's a very livable site. It's easy to walk. I guess the key point is that I think we as applicants want to do the same thing the city wants to do in terms of traditional town form, filling basically a blank form
 Area that has basically two houses on it right now So but I think we want to do the same thing the city wants to do as Andrew mentioned It has a city neighborhood designation right now with the RSF for we can't achieve the objectives of The city neighborhood designation, so that's why we're there
 The second thing, I think we're being very sensitive to the neighbors and the plan, basically with that stair-step approach in the zoning request that we have. I think we've tried to reach out quite a bit, I guess, in our communications with them, and I think the Planning Commission and their support, as well as the planning staff, I think I appreciate their support. I guess another key way...
 I think we're trying to contribute to the city goals that have been identified. There's the urban infill and Goal 1. That's exactly what we're trying to do here in terms of Goal 2, reducing sprawl. By filling in this area, we will reduce the sprawl. We're trying to have potentially work toward that traditional town form in Goal 3.
 As I mentioned before, it is a very livable site. I guess it's very walkable. There's a bus stop right there. And also with our green network, we might be able to work in some open space and work in with that. So I think what we're trying to do is we'll contribute to the city goals. Basically, I think I'm concerned about the parking lot I see at the corner of Hall Street and Cleveland Street.
 Guess my personal opinion is that parking lots don't contribute to the neighborhood. They don't protect the neighborhood I think the best way to protect the neighborhood is to grow the neighborhood And I think that's what we're trying to do is help grow the neighborhood I want to thank the City Council I guessed for creating the Riu Category that we didn't have a couple years ago and the City Council as well as the city staff for that as a Andrew also mentioned that we have unanimous support from the Planning Commission and
 So I think they've looked at it well. So we as applicants, I think we're ready to go to work on this, request your support and approval. Thank you. Do we have any questions from the council? Yes. Do you mind if I add something to that real quick?
 I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design, speaking on behalf of the owner of the property. Just a few points that I wanted to add to the presentation that Mr. Garner and Mr. Jeske has given. We've met with,
 Ward four at their last two meetings and had some real good conversations there. Heard some good ideas and good, good discussion. Generally, I think it's safe to say that there wasn't any opposition at at those two meetings when we.
 Compatibility. I think the transitional nature of the proposal makes it compatible with the surrounding neighborhoods, especially with the new form-based RIU zone, which requires really single-family scaled buildings.
 to be built. Another layer of compatibility is given with neighborhood conservation on the on the north and west side of the property that's adjacent to existing single-family homes. Across Cleveland is Reed Hall, a student dormitory and then of course to the east is Theta Tau. Lastly, traffic.
 we didn't do a traffic study, but we were looking at the project Cleveland, um, PZD traffic study. That was, uh, came before you a few years ago. And, uh, there was a couple of different traffic, traffic studies done with that project. Um,
 The city engineer wrote a summary basically saying that that project did not contribute any traffic impact to Razorback or Cleveland. Our project is much smaller than that, so I think it's safe to say that we won't have an impact on traffic. Thanks. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? Anything? What public comment do we have on this?
 Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. All right. What's the wishes of the council? Adela. Mayor, I move that we move this to the second reading. John. Second motion, Mayor. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? John was the seconder on it. Okay, cool. Okay. Thank you, John. You're welcome.
 Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Funch? Yes. Loutier? Yes. Gray? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 17-5933 for approximately 3.29 acres located at 11324 West Cleveland Street from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to neighborhood conservation and residential intermediate urban subject to a bill of assurance.
 John motion that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading I second that but I also wanted to say that I'm delighted that Mr. Jeske has come back with another plan and I'm very pleased to support this we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading Sandra would you please call the roll
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5933 for approximately 3.29 acres located at 1324 West Cleveland Street from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to neighborhood conservation and residential intermediate urban subject to a bill of assurance. Any final comments from the council on this? Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Ray? Yes. Okay. Number four, a resolution to approve the sale of property and building at 833 North Crossover Road to Central Emergency Medical Services for the use as an ambulance station for $175,000 and to approve Mayor Jordan's execution of a deed and any other necessary documents to effectuate this sale. Chief?
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. Staff recommends approval of a resolution awarding bid 1769, the sale of the property at 833 North Crossover to Central EMS in the amount of $175,000. Two bids were received for the property, on-time appraisals, LLC, in the amount of $177,000, and Central EMS in the amount of $175,000. Staff recommends accepting the lower bid
 of $175,000 from Central EMS because there are compelling reasons to accept the lower bid for the interest of public safety.
 We believe it is in the citizens' best interest to have a permanent location for central EMS on the east side of the city to better provide emergency services. This location will maintain the benchmark response times established by the Washington County Regional Ambulance Authority of nine minutes or less, 85% of the time. This standard contributes directly to the current high levels of cardiac arrest survival rates in the city. Okay. Okay.
 What questions we have for the chief? All right. Kit, you want to give us a little bit of detail on, I know there was $2,000 difference in the price, I understand, but we can take other considerations when we look at this sort of thing. Yes, very similar to when we considered selling the two acres to either Come and Go or Casey's. I informed the city council at that point in time that you could take into consideration something besides just the money
 that the money obviously was very important, but there can be other considerations. And here we have a consideration of public benefit. The amount between the two prices to be bid, very low, barely over 1%. So it's $2,000 over $175,000, so a very small amount. And I think that there is a large public benefit as explained by –
 our fire chief and also there's even a monetary bond benefit I think because in fact we are members of CEMS We help fund their operations because an ambulance service is cannot actually fund all this operation So the county the city and other cities do help fund the operation of CEMS and by providing
 allowing a sale in this manner. They get a facility that already has an extremely large garage, big enough for a fire truck, so it's certainly big enough for their ambulances. They have a good location here already. This was designed to look like a house, but it was a fire station. And it's been that way ever since it was built. So it has the kind of facilities that are more
 are better able to be equipped as an ambulance station than some other piece of property that they would have to try to acquire. So that should save them money, and in turn, since we have to help fund them, it should probably save us money over the long term also. So yes, I believe that you can look at other considerations besides money, and that's why I think that if you do decide to,
 that those considerations are enough to overcome that $2,000, I think you're on safe ground. Okay. John. It's a win-win for everybody, Mayor. I think we should really do this. Thank you. Okay. Is there any questions from the council to Kit or the chief? Okay. All right. What public comment do we have on this? Good evening, Mayor and council. Good evening.
 My name is Stuart Sanders. I reside in Elkins, Arkansas. I've been here in Northwest Arkansas as a commercial real estate appraiser since 1999. I saw an advertisement in the paper that the city was proposing to transfer this property.
 based on a appraisal that had been performed to Central EMS, and I was concerned greatly of the amount of the appraisal. So, Mr. Jordan, I did an appraisal of the property myself, and I looked at the appraisal that was performed. The appraisal that was performed was based on its valuation as a residence. It is an office.
 It has been utilized as an office for the last 11 years. The proposed uses are for office, for both the ambulance service and for myself. I did a little research and found a 2017 Arkansas law known as Act 470. I have a copy of that in my hand. I'd be happy to read it for you.
 Municipal real estate or personal property to be disposed of as one unit shall not be sold without competitive bidding if the amount exceeds $20,000 or the maximum provided by resolution unless the mayor certifies in writing to the governing body of the municipality that in his or her opinion the fair market value of the item or lot is less than the amount established by the ordinance.
 What that means to me is that you put properties that the city owns out for competitive bidding. In my understanding, in my belief, that I submitted a competitive bid and my bid won based on dollar amount. Now, the state statute itself is qualified on dollar amounts. And then it says if the amount exceeds $20,000, so then bids are in dollars. Okay.
 I believe, again, that I had the most competitive bid, and my question to you is, isn't that the purpose of the statute, Act 470? If other considerations, such as a pig or a promise, can be, quote, tabulated, why not just sell the property to whoever you wanted to to begin with for $1? Why go through this charade?
 As far as the argument of saving lives, I agree that Central EMS saves lives. Why can't they continue to save lives from their dispatch office just across the street? Okay. Thank you. I think the city attorney... I'm very upset about this. I don't believe that you're complying with the state statute. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Anybody else in the public like to address us on this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mr. Mayor, I think I need to probably respond and explain. This was not a charade or anything like that. It had to be out for competitive bidding. That's what the state law says. I told you all that a month or so ago when we began the competitive bid process. But that does not mean that money alone is something that can be used by the city or considered by the city in the sale of property.
 Early in 2013, the Fayetteville City Council was considering the sale of two acres of land to come and go or cases, and I issued a one-page memo entitled Considerations Relevant to Offers to Purchase the Two-Acre Parcel. In that memo, I quoted the Arkansas Attorney General Opinion No. 2001-135, quote, with respect to the issue of consideration,
 it is well established that a municipal corporation may convey public property or an interest therein based upon consideration other than money. An earlier Arkansas Attorney General opinion, number 96-351, stated, quote, the Arkansas Supreme Court has held that even non-monetary consideration can be adequate if a public advantage will result from the lease.
 Act 470 merely states that municipal real estate, quote, shall not be sold without competitive bidding. It never states that only monetary consideration can be considered. Now, the court has talked about how you interpret statutes, and this is what they said. It is well settled that any interpretation of a statute by this court subsequently becomes a part of the statute itself.
 The General Assembly is presumed to be familiar with this court's interpretations of its statutes, and if it disagrees with those interpretations, it can amend the statutes. Without such amendments, however, our interpretations of the statutes remain the law, and that's the Collins v. Excel Specialty Products in 2002.
 Even though the legislature amended Arkansas Code Annotated 14-54-302, which was entitled Purchase, Lease, and Sale Authorized by adding disposal to the title and later requiring real estate to be sold with, quote, competitive bidding, it did not change the Arkansas Supreme Court's well-established rule that such sale could be based upon consideration other than money.
 Arkansas Attorney General, which is again what the Arkansas Attorney General has said. Now, the legislature could have added a cash-only provision if they wanted to. This was a provision that's within another state statute on the sale of state real estate. So if the state government sells real estate, according to ACA 22-6-601H, it must be for cash only.
 They didn't put that in the provision, the state statute, that allowed a municipality to consider something besides cash,
 when considering the sale of real estate. And I think there's a good reason for that. Virtually every major city in Arkansas has invested in an industrial park or some other station like that where they have acquired land that they want to sell to help industry or business come to their town. We've done that many times. You know that we sometimes give a discount.
 if we really want the business there. So we're not considering just money. We are considering the public benefit, which the Supreme Court interpreted and has interpreted for 50 years as being appropriate.
 So in this particular case, I think there is a clear public benefit that you can consider if you want to, the benefit of helping provide emergency services and making sure that the CEMS is being run as efficiently as possible. And I think that public benefit is something you can consider. And that's part of the law that the Supreme Court has stated. And it was not changed by Act 470. Okay. Any questions on that? All right.
 I move we pass the resolution. Second the motion. All right, we have a motion and second to pass the resolution. Before you vote, I also wanted to make another note that in section two, to ensure that the public benefit will be there, I have stated.
 that you all, the city council, have approved a delimitation to ensure that the use of the property shall be and remain to be for central emergency medical services, provision of ambulance and other governmental-type services. So they can't acquire this property and just turn around and make money off it. They have to use it for the public benefit. So that is to protect our public benefit. Okay. Everybody good with that?
 And John, did you have something else? I would like to... I have a question. Yes, Justin. So two questions, Kit. One, if we pass this resolution, then this still has to go through closing and things of that nature, right? Yes. And if that fails through, then we could take the second bid and...
 Yes, that's correct. And the second question is, so after saying all that you said, in your opinion, if litigation arises from anything like this, you think it's defensible or defendable given the statements that you made?
 Yes, I believe the Supreme Court has made it clear that something besides monetary value can be used by a municipality in considering to sell a property. There's been two cases that they've said that. We have the Attorney General's opinions, two different ones that say this is well-established law in Arkansas. Thank you very much. Okay. Anything else? All right. I know when the chief brought this to me, he said, Mayor, we're trying to hit a nine.
 minute response time and that means property. So I certainly do support this also. So, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number five.
 An ordinance to approve the application of Sammy Amar Hadadji on behalf of the VIP Club for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 326 Northwest Avenue, number 6 Kitt. Whereas the Arkansas State Code definition of private club was amended to delete regularly paying annual...
 dues of not less than $5 per member from the requirement that a public club must have not fewer than 100 members. And whereas Act 111, you know, 1112 of 2017, which amended the permitting procedure set forth in Arkansas code annotated 3-9-222 for private clubs,
 in the state of Arkansas requires the City Council to approve, quote, by ordinance an application for a permit to operate as a private club before the applicant can submit the application to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Division.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves the application of Sami Amar Hajjaj. I hope I'm saying that close. If not, I'm sure the applicant will correct me. On behalf of VIP Club, a copy of which is attached to the agenda request form for a permit to operate as a private club in the City of Fayetteville at 326 Northwest Avenue No. 6. Okay. Okay.
 Who has this on the staff? I believe, actually, the applicant is here. And I'll turn it over or let him plead his case. This is all kind of new. All right. Good evening, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen of the council and staff. Good evening.
 Think I'm kind of lost I practice alcohol law for 42 years and never done this before because we always just go straight to the ABC so I'll make an effort it see if we can get to to the point My clients it's pretty straightforward I'm sorry Kenneth R Morton. I'm an attorney here in fennel, Arkansas My clients
 Request an application and again like I say this is new to me to have approval to operate a private club at 36 326 Northwest Avenue and Certainly I'm here to answer any questions and I have my client here also. Okay. What questions do we have can on this? Okay, what public comment do we have I
 So now I'll bring it back to the council. I think we have a staff getting up, Mayor. Oh, I am sorry. Yes, Chief, come on up. I'm not sure where my role was there. Well, I, yeah. Oh.
 So like Mr. Morton said, you know, this is new to all of us. I think if I remember correctly, this is the second one that's come forward, maybe the third. As I told you at agenda session, I do have some concerns about this. I want to be very clear that the concerns are not with the applicant. It's with the location. The applicant has had an alcohol permit before and no known violations while he had that permit. So like I said, I just want to make clear about the location. This location is right at the intersection of West and Watson.
 If you can picture in your mind where that is, there's also three other very popular bars. There were four up until right before Boxing Blues and Barbecue.
 that area and probably back in early summer we started seeing issues down in that very specific area of Weston Watson like I'd never seen probably since I've been a police officer here but for sure since I have been the police chief here. I can tell you you hear the mayor talk a lot about our Monday morning meetings I can promise you a bunch of those Monday morning meetings were dictated or dominated by discussions about what was going on at Weston Watson.
 We've worked with about every entity we can work with. We work with local property owners to get more lights and to control some parking and those types of things. We have had situations like I told you at agenda session where it is taxed us completely out at 2 a.m. We've had to have the county come into Fayetteville to help answer calls. We've had to have the university come and help us answer calls because of the
 Ruckus that was going on at Dixon and West you know I won't bore you with every single call We've had down there, but some of the more serious when we've had several aggravated assaults. We had a shooting We had a gentleman hit in the head with a rock so we've had some very serious Crime going down on down there, and it's right at 2 a.m. When all these bars went out. We've also had concerns about a
 People pour into the streets, and we can't seem to get them to move along so we've had issues or concerns with about emergency vehicle access Those types of things we've actually put we have a what we call a lot trailer like you see at football games It's the lights up on a tower We've put those down there to try to just get some more light on the situation we put our surveillance trailer down there we've involved the fire department to come down there and help us with blocking emergency exits
 We've involved ABC. I mean, we've just done, since the middle of the summer, we've worked really, really hard, probably harder than we've ever worked on anything as far as getting this under control. I can tell you that the social club, I believe, was the club in the location where the applicants are applying for. They went out of business right before Boxing Blues. I don't know the exact date. I don't know, you know, I can't really tell you how much each club...
 Has to do with the problems we're having down there. I can tell you it has got better over the last maybe two to three weeks We think that's a combination of a lot of things. We've put more officers down there. We have Bike officers obviously as you guys know that work down there full-time We also have bike officers that work the mall we pulled those mall bike officers back to Dixon Street putting them down there And we've also spent a significant amount of money in overtime trying to get this under control so my concern is
 The one club went out of business. Between that and the extra efforts we've made down there, it's got a little bit better over the last month, and my concern is if we put that fourth club back in that close proximity, we're going to have the same issues we were having a month and several months ago. I'd be happy to try to answer any questions. Yes, what questions do we have for the chief on this? Matthew. Thank you. Is it your sense that it's the number of people that are there more than opportunities
 and operations of the particular clubs that's contributing to the problem? I think it's all the above. I think you have over-service at some of your clubs, and then people pour out onto the streets, and that causes fights and those types of things. When you say over-service, you mean too much alcohol being served to an individual? Yes, too much alcohol being served in those establishments. And I think that just, when you have that problem, it pours out in the streets and...
 Tempers are thin and that starts fights. I think it's a combination of both. I think if you took these four I know you know counselor Kenan's Kenyon said it's the bar district. You know where else do we want bars? I think if you took these four bars and separated them on each end of West one on each end of West and one on Each end of Dixon. I don't think you would have that problem because you don't have as many people Congregating in that area right at 2 a.m. When the bars went out I
 Okay. What other questions do we have? Mr. Mayor, could I ask him a question? Sure. Absolutely. Are you getting any help from the ABC on trying to maybe have a little bit better cooperation from the current bar owners? We have. I mean, that was about the first step we took was we made the –
 We went and talked to the bar owners is about the first thing we did and since then We was getting cooperation from them, but you know once again that they can only do so much We have involved ABC there has been some violations of ABC Regulations written there's also been some fire code regulations written So we've involved everybody we know to involve lots of time and effort went into it since about July this summer It's been special
 We talk about it a lot on Monday morning in that area. So. One more. Sure. So there have been a concentration of bars there for a number of years now. But it seems like, and this is what I'm asking about, from reading the newspaper reports, it seems like in the last six months or so there's been an escalation.
 Is that accurate? I think that's a fair statement. And I think maybe one of the bars have changed maybe their business model some. It used to be more of an event-type center for special events and those types of things. Now it's more just a bar, so I think that's also contributed. So I think it is a fair statement to say that those bars have been there for some time, but it has definitely got worse in the last six months. Okay. John? John?
 You know, Chief, on the Equipment Committee, when we're being told we need a new backhoe, I tell Terry Gulley, I could look at a backhoe for a full week, and I wouldn't know if it needs to be replaced. I depend on him to tell me that. That's his specialty. That's what he does for a living. And I will defer to your opinion because criminal justice is your living, not mine. If you think it's a bad idea, I think it's a bad idea. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, Mark.
 I would like to direct a question to the applicant at some point. Okay. Go ahead. Ken, I guess it would be you. Yes, Councilman. I think you've heard the concern. Yes, I have. And so there needs to be some type of resolution to handle the concern. Again, I have mentioned to the police chief this is an entertainment area with bars and
 This is a building that has typically been a bar for a while, quite some time. And I hate to discriminate on a business point because I think that you have the right to use your building to support a business. And I don't know what an alternative business would be.
 Do you have a comment on how there would be a way to resolve an issue of increased crime in that area if you were to be given the opportunity to establish a club? Well, yeah, I can visit with my client about that also, but I've been here. I've been observing this area for 42 years. Well, same here. I get it. I actually, for...
 About 30 years I owned a beer distribution facility here. Right. And certainly it has changed quite a bit in those number of years. I think my client has done one thing, which I failed to mention, is that they have cut down on
 on this spot the occupancy level with other stuff they're using the building for to 50% of what the occupancy level would be before. I think that would slow down some issues.
 I understand there's issues with Dixon Street. There's been issues with the clubs out on West 62 before, too. And unfortunately, having been in the alcohol business myself as a wholesale level, it's just like anything else. You're going to have issues with different things. As far as...
 As far as what could be done, I don't know. I don't have the expertise in that field. Certainly the chief probably has a lot more expertise than I do.
 I think certainly my clients would be willing to meet with the chief and provide. They'd do whatever they could to assist, and they've already done that because they're cutting the occupancy level down by using it for other space, by cutting down 50% of the availability of the crowd. But I think...
 I guess what we're talking about is really it may be an overall issue with the whole entertainment district in that area. And I know that's right at the corner intersection or right there where they've had some issues, but that's kind of where everybody feeds in at the end, even heading back towards the campus or heading to the parking lots to leave. And so I don't – I honestly – I don't think I'm qualified –
 to say what could be done. I think maybe the chief and maybe the merchants in that area could get together and perhaps try to have a discussion. I know my class would be willing to do that, of how to resolve those issues, maybe staggered closing times or something. I just don't know. I'm sorry I couldn't answer your question. We could leave it on this reading if you want to for two weeks to see if anything can be worked out.
 And you have R. I would like to table this for two weeks. Just leave it on the first reading. Just leave it on the first reading. That's right. It's an ordinance. Because I do, I mean, I think you've heard my concern, and I live within two blocks of this, and the nature of that area.
 can be rambunctious. We've seen a higher density of population. We have the parking in the area. We have a cycle of increased incidents, and it's certainly something to raise alarm and concern, but I also hope that there's a way that it can be managed so that it doesn't impair the opportunity for the business
 If it can be handled responsibly, and I don't know what the answer is, but if I were to vote on it without more insight of an operational plan, I'm not sure I could vote on it right now because of what is happening in that area that is impacting the neighborhood and impacting the overall well-being of those that are visiting the entertainment district. So that's my thoughts are very important.
 I have a real concern. We go through cycles. We've seen cycles in our entertainment district come and go, but this is a tough and real situation that is supported by numbers of increased incidents. I understand. And my clients will be happy to meet and discuss anything. Okay, well, I think that that's a good idea. If we could get more direct information on the operations –
 the business model that may be able to enhance this, the safety. I understand. Because what happens so often in that area, the sidewalk is so crowded, it does pour into the street. There's a lot of problems with that just generally coming and going when you're on West Street and that intersection. Okay.
 West and Dixon, that's right. Well, and especially as you go down west towards Maple, because the sidewalks are so narrow. Right. So I look forward to more information. Okay, thank you. So we just let it... Oh, Justin, you had a question. Well, and I appreciate the time to get some more information on it. And Council Member Kenyon mentioned discrimination. I hate to...
 discriminate against the business because of the timing and because they just happen to be the third one or fourth one or second one in an area because maybe they're going to do something better and and make the area better or maybe not. But it's tough for me to make that call. I'm more concerned with what the process would be and we can take this up in two weeks or maybe get some information in the meantime of of what happens to a club.
 If they are deemed to be causing issues that are adding to the problems there, does ABC step in? What is the legal ramifications? Can somebody go in and shut down a club and say you're the one causing all these issues with an assault or a shooting or whatever that might be happening? So I don't want to pass judgment on a business owner that I've never met.
 assuming that they're going to make something worse when they may not. So that's why I'd appreciate some more time to do it. And I would be curious, however that would work,
 could be provided on what the process, if there even is a process in place, between maybe our police department and ABC or whatever to a club somewhere that is deemed to be adding to the problem. What can happen there? I can tell you back in the 90s we had a severe problem with what was called River City on North College. And in fact...
 We determined they were a nuisance and basically closed them down. Yes That is rare. I don't know of any other time. We've done that we You know, you remember Yeah, I was on the council then and we had a lot of interesting stories about what was going on including underage cells of alcohol and a lot of impact on the neighborhood and
 But something like that is theoretically possible of course when you have three clubs emptying out I don't know who you get a point to finger at I think I can ask answer your ABC question So as Mr.. Morton can tell you because he's dealt with it for a long time ABC has a pretty strict set of rules So anytime that we catch anybody you know if we if they're outside fighting and we know they were in that club That's a violation on that club. We do have a process for any of
 Alleged ABC violation we send that information to the ABC and then they deal with it administratively Typically is how they deal with it. You know sometimes it starts with a fine sometimes it starts with probation It's usually a lengthy process before you would ever get to the process of getting a club shut down
 I would say you'd probably be better off going the route Kit talked about, about getting that club shut down. I do think there's some things that – and I guess this question's for Kit. I think there's some things we can do working with the owner, things like making sure that their security people have our fraudulent ID training. We talk about lights on the outside of the building. So I do think there's some things like that that we can do working with the applicant to –
 help some of our concerns. My question to you would be to how formal does though, does it need to be like a bill of assurance formal? Does it need, what, what, how formal does it need to be? And then I still have the concern about just the two o'clock, you know, that's the first I've heard about the occupancy being reduced. I think that's a great idea. Obviously that helps that some, but I still ultimately have the concern no matter how good a job they're doing, those people are still pouring out in the streets where the problems are
 Well, we're in uncharted territory, aren't we, Ken? There's no guidance in the law. It says that you can approve or disapprove. It doesn't say what you're supposed to look at or decide. I think there needs to be, especially if you're going to disapprove, there needs to be some pretty good reasons so it's not arbitrary and capricious. I think we've heard some reasons. On the other hand, you know, it's certainly not the policy of Fayetteville to keep buildings vacant.
 and we don't want to have that as a final result, so hopefully we need to try to work something out. And I have some other ideas that I can talk with the chief about possibly this particular location issue. Can I say one thing? My clients are willing to work towards this because certainly they don't want...
 any problems. They don't want stuff happening. As the chief said, and I'm familiar with it, they've been in business down in that area on Dixon Street before. They've never had a violation with the ABC or violations. I'm not with the police department of any kind. My clients are willing to work. We're willing to meet. We're willing to try to get to the point that makes everybody comfortable because certainly it's a problem, but it's a problem bigger than just my clients. Yes.
 It's a problem of Dixon Street, and it's a problem that's got to be resolved sometime, and we're willing to try to help to resolve it.
 but certainly we would hope that the council would not penalize my clients who have had places down there and has never had a violation. That shows that they've been working it fine. Yeah, and I don't think the council is trying to say it. Ken, we're just trying to figure out a solution. Oh, I understand, Mayor. Yeah, I understand. I'm saying we're willing to help. We're willing to do what we can to try to work everything out. Okay? All right.
 Don. Mayor, I just want to remind the council, during the legislative session when this came out, it came about because communities wanted an input on the front end into permit requests that were coming into their communities, much like our old dance hall permits were conditional uses that allowed the city to work with the operators to put conditions in place.
 because we tended to have more issues with those particular establishments. I just wanted to point out that Kit and I have talked about the fact that we really need to revamp this process as it relates to the city because today these applications are coming in sometimes to a council member, sometimes to the city attorney's office, and the entity who's probably best to address it, ask the questions about operational procedures, what's being done, express areas of concern to work out a plan is our police department.
 And so as we develop this new process, these applications are probably going to, with the next one, start at the police department so that we can get this kind of information on the front end because now we're trying to get it with the police department finding out about it the same time that you found out about it on your agenda session. So it is also not our responsibility.
 Normally our practice as a city to not support new business owners and the development of buildings, but at the same time maintain for all of our businesses what is perceived as a safe environment. Because what we don't want is the examples that people think of when they hear Little Rock. And so that's what the chief is trying to prevent as we talk about our downtown entertainment district that people from all walks of life go to. So, yeah.
 I think it's great for you to table it. It would also give us the chance to maybe practice our process a little bit about what we want to know, learning about their operational processes and bringing that detail back to you for your discussion. May I add one thing, Mr. Mayor? This is a little bit different in that certainly all applications before the ABC, the city has requested to respond if they have objections. The only thing I would point out is that
 A lot of this activity down there comes from a lot of other clubs too that's got either on-premise restaurant, liquor, and they've got beer license. And other than the ABC asking the city to give input, there's not a lot the city can do. But on private clubs, now you have to have the city to sign off through an ordinance.
 which is probably discriminatory on the issues of your restaurant, hotel, restaurant, liquor, brother, drink. And also, so I think it's a bigger issue that's got to be looked at because of the fact that not all the issues, and probably less than 20% or so may be coming from the private clubs. It's from the...
 Restaurant, on-premise liquor, the beer clubs, and all that. So I think it's bigger than just the private club issue, and that's the only thing really the city has to approve of. They can object to it, but that doesn't mean that the ABC board is not going to grant it. So it's kind of a discriminatory issue there. I see. That's a good point. Any other questions today?
 So we'll hold this one right here and look at it two weeks. All right. I believe that concludes our business for tonight. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I've got a couple of announcements. Okay.
 Mark your calendars for November the 17th at 6 p.m. We will have our downtown square and lighting night parade for lights of the Ozarks. And then after that initial night, the lights will be on from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Nightly with carriage rides, pony rides, carriage rides, pony rides, and...
 other treats, I guess, on the square. But the lighting night is November 17th at 6 p.m. And then secondly, we just want to remind citizens that city offices will be closed this Friday, November the 10th, for the Veterans Day holiday.
 All solid waste commercial routes will run on Friday. We don't have residential route pickup on Friday. If we did, they would run as normal. However, the Marion Orton Drop-Off Center and the transfer station will be closed to the public as they follow city office hours. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. That's good work tonight. We're adjourned.