here here here here would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance
 One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. First order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one on the consent agenda is approval of the October 18, 2016 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two...
 A resolution to repeal resolution number 180-16, award bid number 16-16, to authorize the purchase of a prefabricated bridge in the amount of $31,500 plus applicable sales tax from the Art Thurston Incorporated of Waterford, Michigan, for installation on the Cato Springs Trail.
 Number three, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 1 to the contract with Southwind Hospitality Holdings LLC to reflect the correct number of parking spaces being leased in a Middle Street parking deck and approve a credit in the amount of $700 for past overpayment for two parking spaces.
 Number four, a resolution to authorize the acceptance of an insurance proceeds in the amount of $457,925.07 from Lexington Insurance Company for necessary repair work on buildings located at the Federal Executive Airport as a result of hail damage and to approve budget adjustment. Number five, a resolution to approve tax order number six with Garver LLC in the amount of $25,000.00.
 for bid package development bidding services and construction phase services the drakefield airport roof rehabilitation project number six a resolution to approve a change order to the out of scope agreement with ch 2m hill engineers incorporated in the amount of 30 000 to continue work on a use attainability analysis for the white river and approve a budget adjustment and number seven
 A resolution to approve change order number one of the contract will switch your construction corporate at any amount of $390,568.20 for the relocation of approximately 1,100 feet of 12-inch water in Maine associated with the Rugal Road Persimmon II Congressional Project. I'll entertain it. Sarah. I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Allen. Second that motion. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Shall the motion pass?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Parady? Yes. Chautemar? Yes. Long? Yes.
 Okay, number one under unfinished business an orders for his own that property describing his own petition RZN 16-55 50 for approximately 70 acres located east and west Rupert Road and south of Mount Comfort Road from RSF one residential single family one unit per acre RSF for residential single family four units per acre and are a residential agricultural to CS community services and are a residential agricultural Undertaining motion to go to the third and final reading
 Otherwise, I can just read it and that's probably faster All right Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fable Arkansas section 1 at the City Council of the City of Fable Arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit B Both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RSF one residential single-family one unit per acre RSF for residential single-family four units per acre and are a residential agricultural and
 to CS Community Services and RA Residential Agricultural. Section 2, this is the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. And Mayor, as you're aware, Alderman Tennant emailed us and asked that this be left on this reading and tabled until the next meeting. He is unavoidably out of town and wanted to be here for that particular discussion.
 I will also note that as I have discussed with you a few times, there is one four-acre parcel here that I think probably should remain as its current zoning. I have that ordinance ready to go, but I think it would be better to present that to you at the agenda session so there is plenty of time for the applicant to be able to review that. So I think that after whoever wants to speak here has spoken, I would hope that you would table this.
 to the next meeting okay all right jeremy you got anything new on this zap gun anything you want to say okay um what questions do we have the city council anything right now okay any public comment i'd like to address the council uh my name is jim hazen and uh i'm the owner of the property that we're talking about my wife is here with me um first of all thank you for allowing me to express my opinion on the rezoning of my property
 I'd like you to understand how each of us would like to control and mold our environment to meet our expectations. I feel the same way about being able to control my own property. Rest assured, quality and appropriateness are at the top of our list in dealing with progress in our area. My wife and I plan to remain on the property, so nearby quality development is essential. First of all, let me give you a little history, if I may.
 We've lived on this farm 25 plus years. It was quiet, very few cars, unlocked doors, friendly neighbors, and peaceful living. We maintained the creek, we fought ice storms, we cared for the land, trees, and the wildlife. All this was accomplished without outside assistance or input.
 Also during this period, new and larger sewers, water mains, micro-optics, roads, gas lines, and so forth were crisscrossed through our farm to create the infrastructure that supports the many new subdivisions that now surround us, much to the destruction of trees and restricted land use. In fact, a new four-lane highway and bridge are about to divide our farm further into several dysfunctional partitions. But this is the progress with which we all contend.
 Changing times make pastoral living much more difficult. I'm sure you're aware of the explosive changes occurring in the area. We're evolving from rural to urban. Higher taxes for schools, libraries, roads, traffic, more people are forcing us to adapt. Therefore, progress is relentless. We are rezoning our property to more closely deal with these changes. Progress can be confrontational or cooperative. Hopefully, we can work together to make our area better and more livable.
 As things change, we would welcome all of our neighbors to support and put input into dealing with this progress. We all realize this rezoning is only the first step in changing the property to fit the 2030 plan as approved by the Planning Commission and the citizens of West Fayetteville. Any actual development still would require final approval. I'm asking the support of our City Council, and particularly our two aldermen, Alan Long and John Latour,
 to move this rezoning forward so that we can begin planning for the future thank you thank you any other public comment on this yes
 Sorry, if I can, I was contacted by Jared, who is here. He had been in contact with Mr. and Mrs. Hazen, and he has a really brief presentation that he would like to show us. So I'll make a motion to let him proceed with that. I'm not sure if it takes a motion, actually, after the new legislation. I think that we passed the rules –
 a few weeks or months ago that would allow this. If there's no opposition, then I think it's a very short presentation, so I would just – if there's no opposition, just let him show it. I'm not sure what it is exactly, but – Okay. My name's Jared Dunn. I live on 3632 South Tower. It's between Salem and Ruple. Okay.
 So I'm speaking on behalf of some other citizens some of them couldn't be here some of them are here They can raise their hand We're not opposed to any non-residential use in the area or development we our problem and one of our biggest problems is with one of the permitted uses and
 which is allowing gas stations and drive-ins and drive-through restaurants we just don't think that's appropriate for this area and if it's approved it's under permitted uses so I don't we couldn't stop it if someone decided they wanted to develop that there
 You've got Holt Middle School right there, which children are at the age, they're walking and biking home. You've got the cemetery there that has historic value, which I don't think a gas station or a McDonald's is appropriate for this area, or near, especially near the cemetery. Um, if you look at the guiding policies towards this type of zoning,
 the guiding policy a protect properties from potential adverse impacts associated with non-residential use uh to me that would definitely be an adverse effect on the community and especially a historic site like a cemetery with civil war you know uh graves
 The second, the Guidance Policy C reduced the length and number of vehicle trips generated in an area. There's been studies done that, like the Institute for Transportation Research and Education points out you can have up to 100 trips a day per pump at a gas station.
 And then, you know, it also says encourage walkability as part of the street function. Well, if you look at the first example here on Salem Road, you don't even have a finished sidewalk, if Jeremy can zoom in on that particular sidewalk right there. And you've also already rezoned that community service off the corner. But that's, if you go to the next image, I did a distance calculation, it's like 600 feet.
 between the sidewalk that's not finished there. So I just don't think that the area is adequate right now to be rezoning until we have some infrastructure change. You've got, if you go to the next picture, I have some traffic information. The particular area you're talking about rezoning is right there where the yellow is.
 That intersection is highly dangerous. Jeremy, if you'll go to the next one, please. That last picture was at 545 on Wednesday. This one's on Wednesday morning, 730 in the morning. The next one, this is at Tuesday at 705. And then the next picture is just a closer view of...
 the actual intersection. So the first problem is you have a three-way intersection here where no one has any stopping, it's only yield sign. People going south, coming off Mount Comfort going south have a blind spot to traffic that could be potentially turning left.
 And also kids or people taking their kids to school going north have a very short amount of time to actually Get into a turning lane with cars traveling about 30 to 40 miles per hour And I gave I have a video that has four or five different examples I filmed this on Monday morning. Just just within one hour. I saw two potential wrecks happen and
 So the first one has a school bus and then some kind of giant utility truck, if you can maximize that for us Jeremy, that pass between each other. And then this school bus has kids on it, is going to try and turn with the potential of a car crossing its path. At the top of it I caught a car turning right here who almost is hit from a west or eastbound car.
 right about, actually that's the one, sorry, the next one is that. That was someone that was going wide left of center. So you see a yellow Jeep at the top of your screen and right there he's almost hit on the side. And then at that particular spot on the next clip, you'll see this car almost hit by a black truck. And the truck was signaling that he was turning left, so that person just wasn't, did not see him. Now this is an example of someone that was trying to turn left
 as they were going to Holt School or at least go down Ruppel Road and the traffic just continues to build up because they can't get over. So I just think we're lacking infrastructure in this area. But I would like to point out that next year we're supposed to completely redo that intersection. Is that correct, Chris?
 We're gonna start working on that we're gonna realign Rupert road with the other one and completely redo that intersection where it's not Correct, but how do we know that? Other because you've already rezoned the Razorback golf course that's going to increase traffic It is and all this is going to happen. We don't know when the road will actually get finished Chris what's the timeline on all that? I
 approximately the current plan for the ruble road project is to begin in 2017 probably mid-2017 and it's about a year-long to 18-month project so the end of 2018 we expect to see it so i mean i just would like to see the infrastructure improved before we continue to rezone this area
 Just to be safe and just make sure that we're being responsible with our rezoning. So that's my two biggest points is we don't want to see any fast food gas stations because there is no long distance for us to go to either north or south to get that. So that's my main point. Thank you. Do we have any questions? Thank you. All right. Anybody else like to address this? None. I'm going to bring you back to the council.
 Yes. Evening, Mayor. Tom Terminella, 24 East Meadow. I'm here on behalf of Jim and Judy Hazen and their farm. I appreciate that young man's comments. We have no issue with tabling it for two weeks. We think that would be good for the other older men to return. And just want to make clear that the process is underway to further delineate the Hazen's
 Of course, the city's gonna need right away acquisition to achieve this and the Hazens, I heard, Kidd, you mentioned there was a piece that they wanted to hold off on, I believe it's the northwest corner, and the Hazens respectfully asked for the 72.1 acres to be all considered at one time. That's their intent. They have an intended use for that parcel. There's a development team and a civil engineering team working on this collectively as a three-phase project.
 for the council members and the public to realize jim and judy have been here for a long long time they have a home that is going to remain ra with some 12 to 15 acres south of hamstring creek so
 they are the largest stakeholder and they have the largest interest in making sure that we do a quality development that fits with the community. But the folks in West State will need to realize that there is a four or five lane section road coming through the property. And that's the efforts of this administration and.
 and planning and engineering. So we have no problem holding off for the two weeks and look forward to answering anybody's questions as they come up in the next few weeks. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. All right. I'm gonna bring it back to the council. So we hold it right here. We'd have to table it, correct, Kent? Yes, we do. Thank you. Mayor, I move we table it until the next meeting. We have a second. Second.
 okay party the most in second to table for two weeks any comments on that or anything all right Sondra would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes
 Okay, number two, an ordinance to approve vacation 16-55-71 submitted by Jordans and Associates Incorporated to vacate a portion of Jupiter Drive from McGuire Street to AEP substation. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Allen. So moved. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marche.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes motion passes an ordinance to approve vac 16-55 71 submitted by Jorgensen and Associates incorporated to vacate a portion of Jupiter Drive from McGuire Street to the AEP substation
 As everyone is aware, I think, I sent you a memo out talking about that I felt like a slight change of this ordinance that I originally prepared for you should be considered by you. I also received communication from Mr. Terminella about some suggestions that he had for the
 But I guess what I would like to do at this point in time, as asked before, and has not asked you to do any kind of amendment on this, I think that we need a full council here to consider it. I think there's also some things that I am continuing to look at that might change my opinion on exactly how my conditions of approval would be worded.
 And therefore, I think that we should probably leave it on the second reading, certainly listen to anybody in the public who wants to comment. But I don't think we ought to try to actually go to the final ordinance at this point in time. I still need a little bit more time to work on some of the wording. Okay. Staff have anything to add? Okay. Any public comment? Okay. All right. We'll hold it.
 Here? Two weeks? Okay. All right, number three. A resolution to grant the appeal of Tim Brazil of Legacy Ventures and to approve a large-scale development, 165488 Macy Drive Town Homes. All right.
 Anything new on this? Mayor, as you all recall, we discussed this item. It was tabled at the last meeting. It had some public comment primarily concerning a secondary point of egress for the development. As you may recall, the staff did not recommend a secondary point at the Planning Commission. We recommended approval of the large-scale development as it was submitted. The Planning Commission split their vote on that particular decision, and it was appealed in a timely fashion and a proper fashion by the applicant.
 A couple of you asked me at the end of the meeting two weeks ago, there was some reference to some cost relative to what it would take to extend a road. If you'll recall, the property has a boundary that has an extension here. Get this up on the screen.
 So this 57-unit townhouse-style development would be located on this property. This property is really not being utilized. There's some utilities there, but it's otherwise not being developed with this proposal. We discussed the potential for a connection to Mount Comfort Road, which, if you'll recall, the...
 the Pine Valley subdivision that's located here, which is primarily composed of duplex, two family style homes, really has one way in and out of their neighborhood. This did not meet the threshold of fire department requirements to have a secondary point of access, nor did the size of the development we felt had to meet the threshold to require a secondary point of access.
 There was reference made to, there's a small tributary here. This is the main creek. This is a small tributary drainage way basically to get to the creek.
 There's a reference to some millions of dollars of cost. We ran some cost estimates from our engineering division Essentially these are cost estimates based on some of the latest numbers that we have that we've been stretching projects out But it's about a little over half a million dollars to construct a 20-foot wide street with curb and gutter sidewalks and
 north along that property boundary we were estimating to get to Mount Comfort Road if you did a smaller street cross-section we believe you could get it down to around a little over three hundred thousand dollars
 that's still just to put that in context you know the full cost of a traffic signal or two traffic signals which 57 dwelling units normally would not require that that would not meet the threshold we would never require a size of development of that nature to build out a full traffic signal so in terms of cost and proportionality to development that's what we generally compare those to
 So I just wanted to make sure that you all were aware of at least some general costs that we were talking about for a secondary point of access. Okay. Does the applicant want to say something? Good evening. My name is Tim Brisell. I'm with Legacy Ventures. Just want to visit a little bit about this. If we are going to pursue, well, let me back up. I did make a comment. It would be significant.
 significant infrastructure investment to the tune of millions and millions of dollars. It's coming in right now at five or six hundred thousand according to Mr. Pate. We just learned of some of this dialogue you guys have had last Thursday, Friday. If that's something that we're going to pursue, I'd like the opportunity to meet with engineering staff and really dive into those numbers and go line item by line item with our engineering team and look a little bit closer at that.
 So I guess if we need to pursue that, I'd respectfully request that we table it this evening to go through those numbers and get a real firm understanding of them. And most importantly, my agreement with the property owners is that I was going to give them, I've got an agreement in writing that I was going to deed that property back to them. That narrow sliver of land that touches Mount Comfort is simply a way for us to show road frontage and move forward with the project, but then we were going to extend that
 Macy Drive into the property and so therefore we would have road frontage on Macy Drive for our townhomes I was deeding them back that narrow sliver of property. So I do not have I do not own that property I will not my agreement with them is to give it back to them essentially after we extend Macy Drive So I need to visit with them and have more internal conversations with them If that is something that we're gonna we're gonna need to pursue and talk about okay any questions rosette
 Okay, thank you. What public comment do we have? My name is Robin Byers, and I live at 1879 North Pine Valley Drive. And, well, if they're going to table this, then maybe I don't have any comments. If they're going to rethink about where they want to have the outlet. Because my whole presentation was how this...
 development was going to affect our neighborhood, our duplex neighborhood that we've lived in for 17 years. So maybe you can tell me, are you going to table this and let him look at some of the options? I suspect we'll table it. Okay. But what is likely is if we are able to work out something and have a second access, they'll still have an access to your neighborhood, but it won't be the only access. That is a big relief.
 honestly. So maybe I don't have anything to say tonight. We'll just see what happens. We'll probably be back in two weeks. Two weeks? Okay. I would assume. Okay. Thanks. Yes. I want to apologize for any of my neighbors who may have shown up later because I thought this was going to be further down on the agenda. So I advise they come around 6 so they wouldn't have to wait through our issue.
 But I still have a lot of concerns about this high density housing being proposed on this narrow hilltop. It feeds directly into the minor tributary, which then would become a major tributary, into the Hangstring Creek natural area, which I understand is also proposed for that little woodland in the tailgates.
 I think about $31,000 set aside for the Parks Department to offset the remote, about 69% of the tree canopy that's there now. And it's a lot of very large oak trees on that parcel. This again will certainly impact the drainage off that hilltop into the creek area. Another concern I had was with a 57 unit housing area
 Where are the children that may be living there going to play? Talking with my neighbors this weekend, that little segment of the street there that goes to the cul-de-sac, and down the hill in the front turn up into that, where half a dozen children on scooters and bicycles are being there because there's so little traffic. People that I spoke to were incredulous that the traffic may be increased by 50 to 80 cars. So I'm going to be following this very closely.
 I still am very much against a high density going into that area, so close to our smaller duplex neighborhood. Okay. Anyone else? Nate. Nate. My husband and I have lived in the Fed for over 17, 20-something years. It's almost been there. And we've lived there because it's been a quiet neighborhood, somewhat quiet, contained. I'd just like to say that I agree with Martha that was just up here about the high density is a big concern.
 i have other concerns also and we'll talk about that maybe after it's been tabled and such but a large-scale development does not need to be exiting into a residential neighborhood it needs to be exiting into a major thoroughfare there's other places in fayetteville that actually are examples of that and so that's one of the things okay thank you anyone else okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 I might just clarify one thing one of the residents mentioned a thirty one thousand dollar Contribution for trees that's actually for parkland dedication ordinance for all residential projects, you know, we have a parkland education ordinance So that's for the parkland requirements. They fully meet the tree preservation ordinance on this site So they're meeting the minimum canopy requirements with on-site Okay All right
 Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Just one quick question. I think I counted close to 200 units in the existing subdivision. Do we have a – can we verify that? There are 164 units, 82 duplexes. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So does anybody else – would the council like to table this for two weeks? Yes. Okay. Allen. Motion to table. Okay.
 Okay. And? Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second. The second was by Marty. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Ginn? Yes. Petty? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Long? Yes. Okay. Number four. An ordinance to amend chapters 161 and 162 to rename and replace cottage housing development with cluster housing development.
 To rename chapter 164 to supplementary zoning regulations and specialized development requirements to replace 164.22 cottage housing development with 164.22 cluster housing development and make further amendments to 164.22. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Allen. So moved. Matthew. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 March yes, yes, yes Yes an ordinance amend chapters 161 and 162 to rename and replace cottage housing development with cluster housing development to rename chapter 164 to supplemental zoning regulations and specialized development regulations and
 to replace section 164.22 cottage housing development with section 164.22 cluster housing development and make further amendments to section 164.22. Okay. Matt, do you have anything more to add?
 uh no mayor nothing nothing new to add uh i know we held this um so we might have uh some aldermen here that weren't here last time didn't hear anything at um agenda session so if the pleases the council we might be ready to vote okay jeremy you want to add anything okay uh any questions from matt or anything okay any comments from the public on this signate back to the council and alan
 Sarah I mean we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Okay, we have a second Matthew So we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final reading So do would you please call the roll? Yes, yes, yes Yes
 And ordinance amend chapters 161 and 162 to rename and replace cottage housing development with cluster housing development. To rename chapter 164 to supplemental zoning regulations and specialized development regulations. To replace section 164.22 cottage housing development with section 164.22 cluster housing development and make further amendments to section 164.22.
 any final comments in the council on this i think it's real good orders man okay uh sondra would you please call her up marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes okay under new business number one
 An ordinance rezone that property described in the zone petition RZN 16-5588 for approximately 3.65 acres located at 407 North Mountain Ranch Boulevard from RSF4 residential single family to NC neighborhood conservation. Okay.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to neighborhood conservation. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Okay.
 hearing you have anything yes counsel this is a little over three and a half acres located Providence and mountain ranch Boulevard the property is currently zoned RSF for it has a currently
 are undeveloped and you can see here on the maps it's surrounded by single-family homes and multi-family homes here this is persimmon drive as it heads east toward i-49 this is mountain ranch boulevards the property sits right in here the request is to rezone the property neighborhood conservation which is also a single family zone however it does allow for smaller lots if you'll remember the
 The property just adjacent to this was rezoned similarly under a planned zoning district several years ago before we had the neighborhood conservation ordinance or zoning district. We now have that. So that development pattern is now allowed by right within neighborhood conservation. We're supportive of this request by the developer who wishes to develop single family homes on smaller lots here. It's a residential area on our future land use map and staff is recommending approval as did the planning commission with a vote of eight to zero.
 Okay. Applicant want to say anything? Good evening. Blake Jorgensen. I have a lot of comments. I appreciate staff's support on this project, but if you have any questions for me, I'd be happy to answer them. You have any questions? All right. Any public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Allen. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes, yes Yes Yes, yes And ordinance rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-55 88 for approximately 3.65 acres located at 407 North Mountain Ranch Boulevard From our Ceph for residential single-family to NC neighborhood conservation Okay, sir. Maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I
 i'll second that motion we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final reading sondra would you please call the roll marsh yes yes yes yes yes mayor jordan yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property is granted in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5588 for approximately 3.65 acres located at 407 North Mountain Ranch Boulevard from RSF4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Cady? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Long? Yes. Okay. Number two.
 an orange free zone that property described as only condition rzn 16-55-94 for approximately 0.37 acres located at 15 southwest avenue from nc neighborhood conservation to msc main street center kit be it ordained by the city council the city of favela arkansas
 section 1 at the City Council city of favor arcs are hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and illegal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from NC neighborhood conservation to MSC Main Street Center section 2 that the City Council the city of a lark's are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1
 Jeremy. This is a property containing a single-family home on the west side of West Avenue in the downtown area. It's between Center and Mountain Streets, just catty-corner to the city library. There's currently a single-family dwelling on the site. To the south of the property is City of Fayetteville right-of-way, including the trail connection down to...
 to the Frisco Trail this property is within the downtown master plan boundary and the request is to rezone it from neighborhood conservation which it was rezoned from residential office prior to the downtown master plan to requested a Main Street Center a Main Street Center is a mixed use zone it would allow for non-residential uses as well as residential uses
 The size and terrain of the property really, in our opinion, would limit a great deal of development in this location. As you can see, there's Main Street Center on the east and north and west of this property as well. The KUAF radio stations to the east, Fayetteville Public Library, a number of non-residential uses, but also there are some single-family residential uses as well. So it is clearly a transition property location.
 Our downtown master plan identifies the goal of pursuing redevelopment opportunities specifically along West Avenue and quote targeting properties along West Avenue for in develop infill development We believe that rezoning the property to Main Street Center Main Street Center could support this goal by allowing for increased housing opportunities in a greater density or Or even permitting a greater spectrum of uses within the existing structure. That is the intent. Um
 Planning Commission voted 7 to 1 in favor of this request and staff is also recommending approval any questions for Jeremy on this is the applicant here Y'all have anything All right, is there any public comment on this? Okay bring back to the council Sarah I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay, I
 do we have a second alan second we have a motion and second to go to the second rate child emotion yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Hornets rezoned that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-55 94 for approximately 0.37 acres located at 15 Southwest Avenue from NC neighborhood conservation to MSC Main Street Center Sarah I mean we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Okay, we have a second Thank you. Second. We have a motion second to go to the third and final reading. Okay
 So would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Topmarch? Yes. Long? Yes. Mayor Jordan? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5594 for approximately .37 acres located at 15 Southwest Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kinnan. Yes. Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Long. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three.
 An ordinance to amend Ordinance No. 5897 by modifying the bill of assurance to permit the realignment of a protected stream. Whereas, Ordinance No. 5897 was passed on August 16, 2016 in reliance upon and subject to the offered bill of assurance which provided for protection and enhancement of two stream channels including a 60-foot streamside protection zone centered on each stream channel.
 And whereas the owner-developer wishes to realign a portion of the westernmost stream, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends Ordinance No. 5897 by modifying the bill of assurance attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo as Exhibit A only to the extent that the owner-developer may realign a portion of the westernmost stream in accordance with the letters, maps, and drawings attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo as Exhibit B.
 All other terms and conditions of the Bill of Assurance and Ordinance No. 5897, including the 60-foot streamside protection zone centered on the westernmost stream channel as realigned, remain in full force and effect.
 okay Jeremy Aaron Council back in August you all unanimously rezoned this property um third question the applicant from RSF4 which is actually still shown on this map to neighborhood conservation that was requested by the applicant staff supported that as well it was subject to a bill of assurance essentially with the commitment to protect the existing stream corridors along this area which you can see here in blue um that commitment is still there the request here is to realign one of the sections that was
 formerly channelized with the agricultural use of this property. There were two essentially acute angles put into the area, I believe along a fence row or to for a drainage channel. And so in consultation with the applicants, environmental engineers, they were looking at realigning this in a more natural way and then protecting that as well, that section as well. So we're completely supportive of that request and recommend amending this bill of assurance. Okay. Any questions from the council on this?
 Is the applicant here or is it, yeah, thank you. You sure he's the applicant? I've seen him here before. Mayor and council, and thank you Jeremy for describing that well. I just wanted to point out that our commitment to preserve these natural areas is still in effect, but I hope the pictures illustrated the fact that this is really a hand dug ditch, probably with the assistance of a mule or horse at some point in the past.
 Our intent here is really just to align it so that the water, when it's released out of the pond after development occurs, it actually has a more natural drainage path. We've been in consultation with Scott Kelly from the Army Corps of Engineers up in Rogers. He's supportive of our request as long as we keep the same linear feed upstream in place and improve the situation. So it's actually going to be a much improved true stream corridor.
 after it's all said and done. So we appreciate staff support. I hope that the council will approve this for us. We have our plans submitted to staff. We're going to technical plan review tomorrow and hope to move on to the subdivision committee and planning commission in the next 30 to 45 days. We're showing the new alignment within those plans as well. So your support is appreciated. Thank you. Okay. Any questions? Jesse on this. Thanks, Jesse. All right. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay.
 Sarah I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second Helen Second that motion we have a motion to say and go to the second read Sondra would you please call? Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes, an ordinance amend ordinance number 58 97 by modifying the bill of assurance to permit the realignment of a protected stream now
 No. Okay. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Okay. We have a second. Matthew. I'll second, thank you. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Okay.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Long. Yes. Mayor Jordan. Yes. And order, submit ordinance number 5897 by modifying the bill of assurance to permit the realignment of a protected stream. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Long. Yes.
 Okay, number four in order to raise on that property describing zone petition far as the n 16 dash 5589 for approximately 0.37 acres located 714 West Martin Luther King Boulevard and 511 Hill Avenue from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to see one neighborhood commercial kit
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to C1, neighborhood commercial. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville, reflects the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Jeremy, this is a rezoning request from RMF 24 and RMF 40, both of which are multifamily zoning districts to see one neighborhood commercial comprised of two parcels, noncontiguous parcels. They are resulting acreage is less than half an acre, about point four acres.
 The property is located along Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard near the intersection of Hill Avenue. You'll note that this property, as I mentioned, is non-contiguous. There's C1 right in the center of it, so it's two small parcels with buildings. The C1 parcel actually does not have any development on it. There's a...
 The property is bounded by the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad Corridor to the north and to the west. As I mentioned, it's owned RMF 24. There's a duplex on the property on the western side currently, and then another parcel that fronts onto Hill Avenue that's a non-residential building. It's been used for many years as a woodworking, small craft wood shop.
 Staff was supportive of the C1 zoning district. We felt that while not a form-based zone, that the fact that the C1 property encompasses everything in the middle of this property was certainly something to consider. In addition, the council has made two policy decisions.
 adjacent to this property in very recent past rezoning the walmart neighborhood market to the east to c2 and then the mlk along south of mlk the come and go to c1 staff recommends approval of the rezoning request those decisions happened in 2011 and 2014. we feel like this zoning would square off that property and allow for a future development on the property as well
 commissioners did split vote on this prop on this particular request it was a three to four and one member refusing it takes five five affirmative votes to get to you all for a recommendation for approval the general the request was generally our discussion was generally about form-based zoning of what might or might not be appropriate here again i think the concern is that
 highest priorities as our corner locations the corner location is not the subject of this rezoning request it's two flanking parcels one which contains a duplex another which contains an existing building so that's one of the reasons also the staff supported the request okay well is the applicant here uh blake jorgensen jorgensen associates i appreciate jeremy's presentation and as he said we um
 We sat down for a pre-submittal meeting and went through options for our zoning and went forward with the C1 zoning to, since the bulk of the property was already there, we just wanted to reabsorb the surrounding multifamily to be consistent with the C1, and that's where the bulk of this development is occurring.
 I've got plenty to say about it, however, I'll leave it simple at that for right now. If you all have any questions, let me know. Okay. All right. What questions do we have from the council on this? Matthew. Yeah, just a quick question. I'm not sure if Peter or Jeremy can answer this best, but I see the applicant is the University of Arkansas Credit Union. Is that part of the University of Arkansas system? No.
 Meaning, would they be subject to our zoning and development, to our development regulations, or would they be under state sovereignty? I do not believe they're part of the university state system. Any other questions? I'm sorry. Yeah, if you know for certain. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If you know for certain, I'd love to. They are, so it's a, as a credit union, they afford...
 they are not associated, they collectively serve multiple different portions of this community. And that's part of why they moved their bank to the north, to Van Asch recently. And they found that they left some of their customers in the south portion of town. So they're trying to make, basically it's called a micro-bank. It's something that serves people from all aspects. They can go down there and you can open up an account with them.
 Any Fayetteville resident can get an account there. People within co-ops, they do serve University of Arkansas students, but they are not a University of Arkansas-based business. So they have multiple different divisions of their customer base. But part of their drive to serve their customers is they have students to the south they want to serve. They have customers of the Washington County to the south that drive off students
 you know, do their transactions and move on. So this is a highly anticipated – this is a very desirable location for them, but they're not University of Arkansas-based. They're not a state Arkansas affiliation. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, I could note that many city employees are actually members of the Credit Union, as I am. They have worked with the city in various events. So they serve the city as well as probably the county employees too, as well as the university.
 I have a question for the applicant. This is an extraordinarily high densely populated intersection in terms of the area just south of this with the four large apartment complexes make this one of Fayetteville's densest housing areas. Why are you applying for an auto-centric style form of development as opposed to a pedestrian friendly form of development such as one of our form-based zones? Absolutely.
 This is one of those situations we've gotten to in previous projects where we rezoned a project to a form-based zoning. And due to the form-based zoning, we would have had to have been required to get a variance. And so with our pre-smell meeting, it was...
 you know it was just kind of like all right we sat down with staff and it made sense that the outline portion that the parcels to the west and east were multifamily the core of it was already commercial the commercial portion allowed for the use by right so we just kind of went along with that streamlined thought
 If it was form-based, and so we had already submitted it. Once we got to Planning Commission, the timeline for the contract was such that we couldn't pull it. And at the time, we had not requested that the core of it be, the C1 portion be rezoned to any type of form-based zoning. So based on the time constraints, we just proceeded as is to get where we're at now.
 The other item is, is if we would have went with form-based zoning, we would have had to request a variance based on the layout of the property because the layout of the property is such a wedge that we couldn't have got building frontage, the building frontage to meet the requirements. So it's basically timeline based. It will be pedestrian-oriented business. The layout of it is such that they're going to have multiple pedestrian access points. And that's the thing.
 that's hard is that regardless of the zoning, the product will be the same. We would have had a request of variance if we were under community services. And if we're in C1, you're still getting the same building. The same, it will function the same. It will be a pedestrian-based bank. It is not, it's not a drive-through facility.
 Restaurant it's do banks have drive-through aspects. Yes, and they do have as it said city employees that will be coming and going They have County employees that come and go but right now It was one last thing we kind of we got caught up in the cycle of the submittal and that they had a contract that We had to proceed with our request and we still feel that with the c1 zoning you will get a pedestrian-based thing and
 They're going to have multiple access points on the MLK. They're going to improve the sidewalk. I know it's – I don't want to throw the word substandard out, but it will be improved portions of the sidewalk that aren't. They fully intend on having the southeast corner to be –
 pedestrian focal point, regardless of the zoning. And then we're just kind of stuck with, they could put the building in by right in that location, so we're just kind of getting the outlier portions to be by right. So that's kind of where we're at, is that we re-zoned the outlying portions to the east and west, and once we got to planning commission, we couldn't retract the statement of the C1 because it was just still going to stay C1.
 we would have had c1 with cs on outsides it just didn't make any sense so i know it's probably a long roundabout way of saying we're we're hoping that you all support this just like staff and we will be a pedestrian-based business
 Okay, I guess my concerns are, at this intersection we've done a terrible job with building an urban form here. And keep in mind, we are a block from our high school where we have over 3,000 students in less than 300 parking spaces and we're trying to encourage the students to walk or ride their bikes to school. And yet we've created a very hostile environment for pedestrians here.
 I can see this intersection from my office window, and it is constantly people dodging cars, trying to find other places to cross, especially along Hill Street, where the sidewalks are discontinuous, but they also have moved the university's art and design district down there. So it is a hugely important pedestrian intersection, and I'm afraid that by putting another intersection
 C1 zoning there or C2 any of the C zoning's that were further setting ourselves up for failure and people are going to start choosing to drive because that intersection is so difficult to navigate to walk So I guess I have a lot of concerns about this project and that's where I'm coming from I completely understand that and if it was two, three, four acres
 Can see a Deviation in the development pattern but such a small pocket right there It's gonna be what it is regardless of the zoning and that's that's where the hard thing was is that nothing? Functionally is gonna change based on zoning You can only get a two thousand square foot bank on that small footprint regardless of the zoning time and so it was it's kind of hard because we say I
 We, as an engineer and a guy who represents projects in town, form base is great. You almost get an opportunity to work with staff, and then staff kind of has a self-approval process. With the C1, it's going to go to the full planning commission. So we're opening ourselves some to exposure for that. And so there's going to be another level of scrutiny that happens
 I'm not going to say it's good or bad. It is what it is, and I completely understand the concerns. But in the context of it, I know what you're saying. The precedent's been set. Whether that's something you agree with or not, we're talking about a very small amount of land where it's already been, you know, the commercial zone has been done. But I can tell you that this, regardless, I feel that it's such a small pocket of land
 the zoning is not going to drastically affect. It will not be enhanced or detracted from pedestrian-wise based on just the geometry of the land. There's just not much you can do. There's such a small pocket. And I know I'm an advocate for trying to make sure we make a pedestrian-friendly product.
 and I know that you are committed to it. So I know you cannot consider those things. I know you're talking about the context of the outline thing. So if we're talking about the context of the precedents and what's around it, it is consistent with the other land use that's been adopted. And I know that's hard and I'm not saying it's right or wrong, but we simply would like to proceed with those small portions being matched with what's already in the parent parcel.
 And like I said, I respectfully understand where you're coming from. OK. Any other questions from the council? OK. What public comment do we have? OK. I'll bring it back to the council. Just want to hold it here. OK. Allen. Who? OK. You all want to just hold it here? All right. We'll hold it for two weeks then. All right. We'll have the full council then.
 All right number five an ordinary zone that property scribes on petition RZN 16-55-90 for approximately 23 acres located Northeast of McGuire Street and Van Ness Drive from C to Thurford commercial to C3 Central commercial to C3 central commercial Okay, kit be it ordained by the City Council the city of favela arcs not section 1 and
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C2, Third Fair Commercial, and C3, Central Commercial, to C3, Central Commercial. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. CHAIRMAN BRYANT.
 This is a request to rezone a property recently rezoned last year, 2015. The property is located north of Van Ness Drive. It actually does not have any frontage on Van Ness Drive. There is some frontage along Jupiter Drive to the west and also McGuire Street and Ball Street. As you can see in the map here, it's a long, linear portion of property, 23 acres. The property is currently zoned to C2, Thoroughfare Commercial. As I mentioned, it was rezoned to that in 2015-2014.
 The applicant's requesting to rezone this property to C3, Central Commercial. C2 and C3 are relatively similar. There's a few uses that actually drop off between C2 and C3. There's also a use that is added, which I believe is the applicant's purpose, is to add multifamily residential to this particular site.
 staff found that found the proposed zoning compatible with the surrounding industrial uses of the zoning in johnson and also the zoning that is To the south which is c2 Along the frontage of an ash drive into the north which was already zoned c3 by the council There's also existing i1 zoning c3 zoning to the south of an ash drive as well We did not feel a form-based zone that does not have frontage onto a street in this particular location Would
 do much to create a form traditional town form because it would be sandwiched between c2 and c3 and so we recommended approval of the request for c3 zoning in this particular case this was also split vote five to three to five which is on the same night as the last item and this has been appealed in a timely fashion several commissioners discussed essentially the same kind of concerns that the c3 zoning was not considered um was not
 not considered consistent with the city's goals for traditional development patterns under a form-based zoning district. We made a point obviously to the Planning Commission that each of these is unique. We always look at zoning districts in their context. The council has approved C3 zoning very recently for projects just south of here along Steele Boulevard for an uptown project. So C3 can be developed as an urban district. It does allow for that. It does not require it. That's the biggest difference.
 with the C3 zone and our formation zones. Staff did recommend approval. This is an appeal from the Planning Commission's decision. Okay, would the applicant like to say a few words to us? Good evening, Mayor. Tom Terminella here to represent the WG Land Real Estate. The illustration on the map is correct. We're attempting to plan and design multiple phases of multifamily high density,
 residential development there and it's not allowed in c2 it is by conditional use we want to change the zoning the c3 to allow us by right and as you can see by the image on the screen there it kind of runs hand-in-hand with the Jupiter Road vacation
 So I would respectfully ask that you just leave it on the first or the second reading tonight. We bring this up in two weeks when we bring the Jupiter Road section back. But our intent is to lay out, design, and go vertical with four phases of multifamily high-density housing, which is occurring in the north part of our city. So with that being said, please consider it, ponder it, and leave it on the first or second reading, and we'll bring it up in two weeks, please. Thank you. Okay.
 All right. Any public comment on this? Okay. We'll bring it back to the council. Just leave it right here for two weeks. Okay. All right. And I believe that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Thank you, Mark. Don.
 Yes, Mayor, we have three announcements for the public tonight. The first is the city is currently seeking responses to our mobility transportation master plan survey. That survey can be found on the city's website at www.fayetteville-ar.gov.
 Secondly, the invasive species removal workshop that was originally planned last week and was rescheduled due to inclement weather has been rescheduled for tomorrow night, the 2nd of November from 4 to 6 at Veterans Park. So those individuals interested in invasive species removal and that workshop, we encourage you to attend.
 And then lastly, for our trail users, a section of Skull Creek Trail is closed from Gordon Long Park to Appleby Road. It's closed during the day, and that is for trail maintenance and erosion prevention work. It's going to be between Monday, October 31st, so yesterday, through November the 14th, from 7 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. It'll be open at nights and on the weekends, and there is a detour for this section of trail along Greg Street Avenue.
 I plan on that in your trail transportation. Any other announcements? Currently we will be considering 24 openings and commissions and committees.
 application deadline of November 23rd. So if you're interested in looking at that, you can go to the city website and see what openings we have to fill. And I would encourage everyone to go ahead and take a look at that and see if you're interested in participating.
 as a member of a board commission or committee. And again, that deadline is November 23rd at 5 p.m. Don? I just want to also remind citizens that early voting is taking place and can be done in multiple locations in Fayetteville. You can check the Washington County Election Commission site for those locations. Early voting goes through Monday.
 And then election day of course will be one week from today I do want to announce to the public that might be normally attending the City Council agenda sessions that our agenda session for next Tuesday Has been moved to Thursday due to election day Okay Yes Now I believe they're having early voting on Saturday this time as well Okay anything else
 All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.