Okay, I'm going to call the City Council meeting of November the 5th, 2020 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Here. Pinion. Here. Petty. Here. Scroggins. Present. Fudge. Here. Kerr. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Thank you, Karen. Would you all join me in a pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, good evening everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall is closed to the public. This meeting is being held virtually.
 i'm mayor lionel jordan and i am present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff kit williams city attorney care paxton city clerk treasurer susan norton chief of staff keith mesito i i t director police chief mike reynolds fire chief brad harden finance director paul becker two representatives from federal's i.t department
 city council members city staff and the public participating online or by phone other than those of us you see before you the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers participation remains of utmost importance to the city of federal and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting including contacting city council members
 City Clerk's Office or City staff prior to the meeting. Viewing through Federal's government channel online or the City's YouTube channel. Joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand.
 We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment. I will provide longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. Fable residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record.
 public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment each speaker has one turn to speak
 each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the city council by unanimous consent or majority vote
 If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned person to speak by unanimous consent for majority vote. Now let us begin. First order of business we have tonight under reports, we have the monthly finance report by Paul Becker. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. Good evening, Council.
 This will be the report through the month of September for this fiscal year. So that's through first, we're done with first three quarters. We have the fourth quarter to go. Very happy to discuss the sales tax which has been up so far this year. It's up 3.9%. We've been doing extremely well.
 As I have repeated in the past, I've been very surprised, but very happy by the results for sales tax. Franchise fees are holding their own compared to budget. Licenses and permits are down a bit. Building permits are doing well. However, our alcohol licenses and permits are in fact down.
 We have losses in charges for services and many of those are park related services because many of the programs we were not able to offer this year.
 We also have losses in the court fee category, and that's because the court hasn't been able to hold a whole session as much as possible for the year. All in all, the revenues are right around on budget for the general fund.
 We're watching expenditures very carefully. So at this point in time, I can report that the general fund is certainly in as good of shape as I think we could expect considering the restrictions on the economy.
 The street fund is up approximately 3% and this is driven by wholesale fuel taxes which are new this year. We'll gain about $300,000 that above and beyond the budget due to those wholesale fuel taxes which went into effect at the beginning of this year.
 So the street fund is pretty sound. Again, we're watching carefully expenditures in each and every fund. As far as the parking fund is concerned, even though we're seeing it, parking fees increase a bit and more activity in the downtown and Dixon Street areas.
 As of the end of the third quarter, we have collected roughly 60 percent of the budget. So we're substantially down in the parking fund, and we'll have to now monitor that carefully going forward. HMR taxes are 70 percent of the budget through the third quarter. September collections were actually 86 percent of budget,
 which I find very well better than I would have expected for the period due to the restrictions. So it's coming back pretty well again for the year at 70% of budget at this point in time.
 We have pulled back the parks budget for parks development next year, and we'll talk about that when we get into the 2021 budget here in two weeks. We'll talk about that, but we've curtailed capital a bit, but operations we can continue to maintain on the revenues that we're collecting.
 As far as the sales tax fund, the sales tax fund is holding steady. Again, that's funded by 40% of the one penny collection for sales tax for the city. The water and sewer fund, build revenue is up 2%. Again, accounts receivable is up as we are not.
 subjecting customers to cut off due to the coronavirus. So they're up, counts receivable are up. They're up about 500 to $600,000 compared to last year at this point in time. However, once the economy returns and we can increase the collection practices, I expect that to come back.
 Recycling and trash collection revenues down about 2%. Now this is being driven by commercial collection. Commercial collection is down as many of the commercial customers are trying to reduce their expenditures and in fact, not using, not having the trash collections, full charges, et cetera, that we've been experiencing.
 However, the losses are approximately what I had expected for the year. As you remember, we increased the rates.
 the budgeted expenditures and expected to reduce fund balance this year as we move on with the program and the program changes that we had discussed two years ago in line with the rate study. And of course we've expanded some of the services, especially in recycling, in the recycling and trash collection area.
 Current losses in the airport are $450,000. Fuel sales are doing a little better, but they're still performing under what we had budgeted. So we're keeping an eye on that and the possibility of that returning. That concludes the report in the normal operating funds that I do have, but I do wanna take a moment to discuss the disaster fund.
 The disaster fund, and as you will recall, we've been talking about the Coronavirus Relief Fund. That fund was established by the federal government back in March 27. It was $150 billion across the United States. Some of the money went directly to the large municipalities
 and others went to the state. During that period of time, the state has been working on getting a system up running to review all of the municipality's requests, which we will be a subgrantee to that request. But that just got up about a month ago. We have spent or we have had expenditures after tonight's meeting of about $1 million from the disaster fund.
 Most of that is driven by IT. Once we pushed out the employees to working offline, we had to expand the system capacity to take on all of the new data. Protection of the system was very, very important to us. We had to increase the firewall.
 and things of that nature. We had to increase all kinds of network security. We had to buy equipment for people who are working from home. I wanna reiterate or draw to everybody's attention that remember the security issues that everyone is having across the nation with operating remotely.
 Ransomware, several cities have been hit by ransomware. So we expanded those firewalls and we made some substantial investments into the protection of the system itself. We also discussed with you before of moving, including, excuse me, the town center,
 the video capability and the IT capability to use that facility to expand the number of citizens who can come in and we can hold meetings from there. I do wanna remind the council that we have the underlying ownership of that particular facility. So this is just not something done for the A&P commission. We'll certainly work with the A&P commission on the use of that building, but that's to allow a venue for a larger,
 groups. It will enhance the Wi-Fi capability for the public. We're getting ready to launch a renovation or restore the town center plaza.
 This will bring Wi-Fi capability to that, so the citizens will gain, and it's an exciting project going forward. But this again had its costs with it. Again, we had personal protection equipment we needed to buy.
 So over $100,000 spent on that, $70,000 were for the masks program we've spent so far. We're looking at possibly having to buy more masks for the public at this point in time. So that's roughly where we are. I do wanna mention the ionization.
 equipment that's on tonight for all of the buildings to increase the air quality in all of our buildings, not just for the employees, but for the citizens when they return. These are large expenditures. However, remember, these are not expenditures that are throw away. These will continue to benefit us going forward in the future. Now, all of those I talked about,
 feel are eligible for CARES Act reimbursement. However, as I said, the state just rolled out the system, allowing us to apply for this funding about a week ago.
 That gave us four weeks to get all the data together, to make our submissions, and make our requests. And the City of Fayetteville is eligible for up to $2.9 million worth of reimbursements.
 After working with the system administration, public safety, we came to the conclusion that the safest and quickest way of getting our reimbursements, getting that full reimbursement for the city and the citizens of Fayetteville was to apply for reimbursements for the redirection of public safety personnel.
 And we have filed that a week ago. We still have not heard. We have all the sufficient data for the other expenditures. If in fact any of that may be disallowed or questioned, we'll be able to substitute that. But we wanted to get that rolling forward. So what I anticipate going forward in the plan is
 once we get the 2.9 million dollars reimbursed we'll set that up in a grant fund like we should like we're required we'll make the reimbursement to the general fund for those expenditures for public safety what that in fact will do is give us more available reserves in the general fund and i'll come forward through the council and ask for a transfer back into the disaster fund to restore that to the three million
 that we may need going forward.
 We've tried to be proactive and look at everything here as far as social distancing, as far as IT expansion, as far as improvements to the system, because frankly, in my opinion, and I'm no medical person and the administration certainly agrees with me, this is not gonna go away overnight. But I think we've tried to be judicious with our expenditures.
 We fully expect to get our $2.9 million that was allocated as a possible limit to the city of Fayetteville and we'll go through that maneuver which I discussed. I know that's kind of long-winded, but I wanted to be very, very clear to you what we were anticipating and with that, I'll be happy to take any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Paul on the finances?
 All right, the next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the October 20, 2020 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a five-year lease agreement with Ross Executive Aviation Incorporated for office space in the airport terminal building at 4500 South School Avenue Suite D for rent in the amount of $275 per month.
 Number three, a resolution to approve T-hanger lease agreements in 2021 at the current rental rate or as adjusted upward by the airport board for all T-hangers rented at the federal airport. Number four, a resolution to award bid number 20-76 and to authorize contract with Crossland Heavy Contractors Incorporated any amount of $212,750.
 $212,751.03 for construction related to the installation of large slide gates for the variation basin at the Nolan Water Resources Recovery Facility and to prove project contingency any amount of $42,550.26.
 number five a resolution to approve change order number one to the contract with middle industrial services llc for additional services on the nolan water resource recovery stealthy electrical upgrade project any amount of 349 814.99 number six
 A resolution to approve the purchase of audiovisual equipment from B&H Photo and Electronics Corporation in the amount of $66,153.65 plus taxes and shipping charges pursuant to an Omnia Partners cooperative purchasing contract for use in the town center and city hall and to approve project contingency in the amount of $5,000.
 number seven a resolution to approve the purchase of audio visual equipment from key code media in the amount of forty one thousand two hundred forty nine dollars and twenty one cents plus applicable taxes shipping costs pursuant to an omnia partners cooperative purchasing contract facility socially distance public meetings at the town center and city hall and to approve a project tendency any amount of five thousand dollars number eight
 A resolution to accept a quote from Elite Building Solutions any amount of $76,433.60 for the installation of needlepoint bipolar ionization air purification units in city buildings and to approve a project contingency any amount of $23,500. Number nine, a resolution to award bid number 20-70 an authorized contract with Terra Firma Restorations LLC DBA,
 T.F. Thompson Company Roofing and Waterproofing in any amount of $41,000 for replacement of the facilities management shop, building, roof, and to approve project tenancy in the amount of $6,150. This is a 2019 City Facilities Improvements Bond Project passed by the people.
 And number 10, a resolution to approve amendment number two to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Hawkins Ware Engineers, incorporated any amount of $273,600 for engineering design services associated with the project to alleviate flooding near the North College Avenue and East Sunbridge Drive intersection. This is another 2019 drainage bond project passed by the people.
 So I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Carabiners, please tell the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez?
 Okay, thank you all very much. Under unfinished business, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition, RZN 20-005, located at 660 West Willock Street, for approximately .80 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to RMF 12 residential multifamily, 12 units per acre. This is left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. Thank you.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the second read. Karen would you please call it over. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 In ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-005 located at 660 West Willock Street for approximately 0.8 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RMF 12 residential multifamily 12 units per acre.
 All right. Yes, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I do not have anything additional to add. I believe Mr. Mistreda is the applicant. If you have questions for either me or him. Would the applicant like to speak before the Council? You have 10 minutes. Okay. So do we have an applicant? I'm sorry. He is now here. Okay. Mr. Mistreda. Yes.
 Yes, good evening. This is Joseph Mestretta. I just wanted to restate my plans for this property. It has currently it has one duplex on it. I've decided to build two more. So that would be three units. So the density would be no higher than what's permitted right now. Okay. You have anything else? No, sir.
 Okay, thank you. What questions do we have for the council for either the staff or the applicant? Okay, well, let's take some public comment then. There's no questions. Everybody gets one turn to speak. It's broken into five, one turn to speak, five minutes, broken in segments of three and two minutes.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or city council members stay on the topic, which would be the rezoning. Please no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents to speak first. Who would like to address this first? Okay. No comments from the public. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What discussion do we have from the council on this? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kerr. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes.
 and the ordinance rezoned that property described as rezoning petition rzn 20-005 located at 660 west willock street approximately four-fifths of an acre from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rmf 12 residential multi-family 12 units per acre okay what questions or comments do we have in the council and i would be the final comments i suppose for discussion that you would like to have i have a question here
 So I just want to confirm that if we do grant the rezoning, that the buildings that the owner described would have to go through engineering and review process, and that if they are just duplexes, they still will have to go through that because of the zoning change. Is that accurate? No, it isn't. If they build single-family or duplex, they would be...
 exempt from this small improvement planning process. As you know, the ordinance change that we're working on would close that loophole, but that hasn't been processed yet. Okay, thank you, Garner, for clarifying that. And how, there's a small sliver of that hillside, hilltop ordinance or district on that property. Would that be treated differently in any way? Yes.
 There is, I believe, a 5% increase in the tree protection. Although, there again, if they build duplex or single family presently, they are exempt from that. Okay. Thank you again for clarifying. What other questions, comments do we have? Gardener, are there any existing trees in that slice of hillside hilltop preservation area?
 Yes, there are some trees immediately adjacent just north of the street between the, yes. Okay, thank you. I have a question, Garner. Can you remind me how wide the street was, the street we were on last night, how wide is that street? It is 18 feet and it is a quarter of a mile dead end. Okay.
 And how many houses, how many existing properties are on this street? Do you know? You know, I don't have a precise count. If I were estimating, I would say from six to ten. Mr. Mestreda may be able to answer that question. Yes, I'd like to answer that question.
 So I guess my concern is right now there are very few houses out there, but if we put a couple more duplexes in, maybe somebody else wants to put a couple more duplexes in, and as it gradually builds up, how do we get a fire truck down there? Do they just have to back out a quarter of a mile because there's no way to turn around? Mr. Mestreda did raise his hand again. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. Yes.
 Go ahead. Yeah, I would estimate there's probably more than six or eight houses. There's probably 12 houses on that street. What is the fire chief have to say about the ability to service properties in that on that street? Fire Department did look at this and they can they felt they could access this with this parcel.
 Thank you. Okay. Okay. Chief, would you like to talk? I'd be happy to speak. Yes, the fire marshals did review it. As far as the access goes, if they continue to build like the scenario that she just talked about, they do have to provide a place for us to turn around. So that is covered. Okay. Okay. Thank you, Chief. What else? Okay. We don't have any other comments or questions. Terrence, please call the roll.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much.
 number two a resolution to grant the appeal of council members sarah bunch teresa turk and mark kenyon and deny the conditional use permit cup 2020-003 for a cluster housing development and limited business and associated parking at 1629 north crossover road
 So, Garner, do you have anything new or does the council members that appeal this have anything they want to say? I have a graphic or a slide that shows the traffic accidents that have occurred on crossover from Mission South.
 Also, at the last meeting, council members asked, inquired about storm drainage, which is certainly a concern of the neighbors. And the four council members that toured the site yesterday are very familiar with this, but the site slopes generally from east down west. But the issue there is that this is a request
 for conditional use permit, which is an entitlement, a zoning entitlement with conditions. And it is under the city's storm drainage requirements, both in terms of retention of not increasing above the existing flows and quality protections. But the engineering for that, of course, is deferred.
 until the large-scale development that is normal Fayetteville process. It can be very time-consuming and expensive to engineer storm drainage facilities. I might share a screen with you very quickly. Let's see here. Did I succeed? I don't think so. We got it. We can see it. We can see it. Okay. Okay.
 So this is accident data from 2011 to 2015. Of course, accidents are a direct reflection of the density of turn movement. So it's not surprising that the intersection of Mission and Crossover has the vast majority of those. If you look at the subject property, Inwood Lane intersects at a T across the street.
 It has four in that time period, which is about one per year. I have a slide here that also depicts severity of accidents. If it's labeled yellow, it is non-incapacitating injury. And green is possible injury, knock on wood, there weren't any
 uh incapacitating injuries on this stretch of crossover i think the council members that were visiting the site yesterday realized how frustrating it is to exit and enter this site but it is a function of a state highway a four-lane state highway
 And eventually I'm sure Fayetteville will want to redo this street similar to what we did north of Mission, which makes it more convenient and does reduce intersection related accidents with ride in, ride out and U-turns. So I think Chris Brown, I hope he was at the Planning Commission, is able to join us if you have questions for
 him or me i also know the fire chief looked at uh accident data a longer period of time if you have questions for him okay well is the applicant here uh the applicant is represented by richie lamb mayor okay so why don't you like to speak for the council you have 10 minutes all right thank you mr mayor um so uh last time we spoke about the history of the project um
 and how we have developed the proposal and how we've ended up at this point in front of the city council. Also last time we talked about the specific basis that would be required to consider an appeal of the planning commission's decision by the council. And also we have heard from the city staff
 from multiple departments who are the professionals in these respective fields. They're educated and they've got the experience that's requisite to make these types of decisions, none of which have raised concern about our proposal. And so we know that, excuse me, so we know that
 the appeal should be denied and the city council's approval or the planning commission's approval of this project should be upheld. But one thing we did not talk about last time was the future of the project. And this is something that I've been hesitant to do in this forum because it could so easily be taken by some as an ultimatum.
 And so I want to very expressly say that this is absolutely not an ultimatum and we do not intend it in that way at all. But I do feel it's important that we all understand that there are existing development rights by right on this property according to the existing zoning and to our Unified Development Code. And I think that many people who have expressed some concerns
 and who may have been opposed to the project, just have not considered that in detail. And so I wanna talk a little bit about that. You know, the current rights do include the removal of any existing structures on the property, and they do include development of up to eight single family homes, in addition to eight accessory dwelling units, which, you know, could be considered by many,
 as duplexes. But nevertheless, that's 16 units and as you've all seen in our proposal, we've only proposed 10 residential units in addition to the limited business space. So, you know, there again I can see how it might be easy to compare our project to what's existing on site, which is a predominantly vacant parcel.
 But what we're challenged with here is comparing our proposal to, you know, what could be built by right without this conditional use permit. I know that our proposal is much better than that. And I know that it's better for everyone involved, including the neighbors. And so I felt that tonight was the time to, you know, express that.
 One thing that we didn't talk about very clearly in our last meeting was the pedestrian access. And so I want to point out that, you know, this property does lie directly on a future trail, multi-use trail, which would be right in front of the property. That will provide pedestrian access and be an excellent access for bicycles.
 to the north and to the south and is shown to connect this neighborhood to the Mission and Crossover intersection. And so those that had concerns about pedestrian access should look at that plan and rest assured that we will have good pedestrian access. And it's one of the things that makes this project attractive. And I also want to just reiterate that, you know, we will still have to go through
 all of the customary permitting processes such as large-scale development where the issues of ingress and egress and stormwater management and emergency access are all going to be reviewed again. And during that process we will also have the opportunity through design to correct any issues that might arise.
 So that's all I'm going to say tonight. I do want to thank everyone again for reviewing our project and especially thanks to all of those who came out to the tour. I hope that you found the information that you needed to make your decision tonight. Again, I am asking you to deny the appeal of the conditional use permit and uphold the decision that was made
 by our planning commission to approve the project. And I'll be here available with any additional questions that might arise. Also, Baxter Smith is available through a, he's got his own Zoom link. He's not here with me present. So I look forward to hearing your thoughts. OK. What questions do we have from the city council for the applicant or the staff?
 I just want to double check. Does Garner feel that this CUP would be better for storm water retention or about the same or worse? Garner, you're muted. I'm sorry, Council Member. It brings it under the storm water retention and water quality requirements of the city. By right development, if they built a single family duplex, would not do that. Okay, thank you. Okay.
 What other questions do we have? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. This is broken in segments of three minutes and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic, which is the appeal. Please no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents to speak first. Who would like to address us tonight? Mayor, we have Carlton Holt first.
 Okay, go ahead. Carlton, can you unmute? Can you hear me? Yes. Yep. Okay. Boy, this is hard to get this thing to come up. Doggone it. Anyway, good evening. My name is Carlton Holt. My wife, Judy, and I live at 2498 East Meandering Way. Our concerns remain the same as what we expressed to you in our letters to each of you and that I talked about at the last meeting.
 I have some points that I want to identify tonight. And there's not very many of them, but I think they're really important to take a look at. Number one, the council already voted against a very similar project on Whippoorwill, which is directly across 265 from Boardwalk. What's different about this program?
 Number two, the property is elevated and there will be runoff to our pond any way you look at it. And I don't think that last question clearly identified it. This cannot be better than the way it is now. Number three.
 It seems absurd that this developer is the only one to preserve the Smith house. After all, the property is currently on the market. Further, the development that he's planning to do is a long, long way from the original Smith house that you all have been so concerned about keeping. Number four.
 the fire department represented suggests a locked gate with key access available only to them in emergency what part of this sounds like a good idea lastly the traffic safety issues the posted speed limit is 45 but all you have to do is go out there and take a look and no one is going 45.
 However, vehicles regularly travel at 50 miles or more. Making a left turn always is challenging. Please also remember there are four schools using this intersection at Mission. Happy Hollow to the south of us, Vandergriff and McNair to the west, and Route to the east, where children from our subdivision attend.
 It is just so important. These are young students on buses and in vehicles, in addition to other traffic. The congestion problem is well known. We deal with it every day. It is impossible to think this project will not affect our subdivision. Park Place behind us has St. James Place. Those condos...
 fit in with the subdivision unlike the proposed plans under consideration here. This project is wrong. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Matthew Robinson. Okay. Go ahead. Hi. My name is Matthew Robinson. I live at 2654 East Meandering Way. I'm a
 I don't want to bring up the same issues I brought up the first time. However, I think traffic is still an important issue to bring up here. We looked at the number of accidents at each thing. And with what the developer is proposing here, there's a new commercial space in residential areas.
 in residential areas that's going to increase the traffic. And so all we can expect with more traffic there is more accidents. And that's really concerning with residential on both sides, Inwood, Boardwalk, and Meandering Way. Okay.
 As was previously mentioned, this development affects our POA. They showed fire access coming on to a private drive, which we have to maintain at our expense. Adding any additional traffic on that means we've got to maintain that even more. That's going to cost us more. And so putting the burden on us is unfair. And...
 As we know, based on the plans that have been submitted so far, there's going to be lots of impervious surface, lots more buildings.
 there's going to be runoff. And as we've seen in the past, no matter how much we say, hey, you can't have any more runoff. As an engineer, we know there's going to be more runoff. And that's going to go into our pond. And there are only limited options available to truly, that truly
 slow the runoff a little bit, it's going to be there. I've heard people mention that, hey, we need more affordable housing in Fayetteville, and we do. However, if you look, again, if you look at the plans and what's going on there, we've got a clubhouse, we've got a pool. The developer has talked about the homes squandering.
 square foot cost will probably be higher than the homes that we currently have in Fayetteville. So that's not helping affordability at all. So that's a concern of ours.
 And those are the main points that I want to make right there. You know, people have said you should have bought the property. That wasn't an option at the time. I think that's something we would consider. If you look at the property, it's for sale right now. And...
 significantly more than what it was originally sold for. And it's not really our city council's responsibility to ensure that anybody gets a return on investment for anything that's just a normal business risk. So in general, I think this is a risk
 Development doesn't fit in. I especially think the commercial property does not fit in with what's here. I don't think that matches with what was decided across the street at Whopperville. It doesn't fit in between houses. It's just not a good fit for this area right now. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Kathleen Hood. Okay. Go ahead. Okay.
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor, City Council. My name is Wiley Hood. I'm Kathleen's husband, and we live here at 1643 North Arthur's Court down the street. I know we talked about a lot of issues. A lot of things have come up. I concur with so much of the concerns, so many of the concerns that have come up. I just want to isolate my comments to one item, though. We moved here years ago, and we bought into our neighborhood with the expectation that we would have houses around us that were like ours.
 These structures and this commercial property will run down the value of our home. We put our blood, sweat, and tears into this house. We've invested heavily. And to put something here that doesn't fit, for all the reasons we discussed –
 It will run down the value of my property and those around me. I know so many of my neighbors feel the same way. We've had many discussions and they agree. So I would ask that we not do this simply for that reason. There's plenty of, there are plenty of places to build in the city of Fayetteville. Affordable housing is a concern, but we're not, we're not living in a heavy metropolitan city. There's a lot of land around here to build. This doesn't have to happen here. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Rick Tannenberger. I'm sorry, Rick has already spoken. I don't know how I had that. Allison Boykin. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi, my name is Allison Boykin. I live at 2751 East Meandering Way in Fayetteville and I have four points driven by data that I'd really like to bring up and
 They've been on my mind since the last city council meeting, and I really appreciate the thoughtfulness that the council has put into this issue, as well as the developer. The first is, in the last meeting, we talked about how heavily trafficked this area was. And so I did a little bit of research to put some numbers behind it. I'm a statistician, and so I like to make evidence based.
 in data driven decisions. And there are between 72 and 75,000 cars per day that drive this corridor. So it is a very busy area. Adding additional business to the region
 Um, is only going to increase that now it's not going to increase it substantially because it's already so heavily trafficked. Um, but it is going to add to the traffic in the area as well as the difficulty in turning out of and into the boardwalk subdivision. Um, second, I, I'm not challenging, uh,
 the number of accidents that were presented earlier, I submitted a Freedom of Information Act request to the City of Fayetteville Police Department Records Division. And they sent back the number of accidents
 to me from the intersection to half a mile south on crossover. So that extends a little bit beyond the boardwalk subdivision. And they show in that Freedom of Information Act request 129 accidents
 from the intersection down half a mile. So it is a pretty dangerous area already. Adding additional businesses, and that's what my focus is on, is on the commercial aspect of the developer's plan, is only going to increase the danger of that region. I also wanted to talk about
 Councilwoman Marsh's statement that we're trying to increase the density of the area in order to support public transportation and that's something that I applied and I looked at the numbers. Um, there's a book in 2018 by Christoph Spieler and Spieler is kind of the
 I don't know, the guru on public transportation and what makes it financially responsible. And he organized studies that showed that somewhere around 3,000 people per square mile are necessary to support public transportation. And here in Fayetteville, we are currently at 1,491, so less than half.
 of the required density to support public transportation. So my concern is that by adding cluster housing and adding these commercial areas, it's not really helping us move towards that goal of...
 particularly in the region that we live in, which is even less dense than that 1,491. And finally, in this area, there are already nine commercially available unleased or unpurchased spaces.
 And so this area, I do not feel needs additional unleased or potentially leaseable commercial spaces. Again, we already have nine simply at the intersection of Mission and Crossover. So it's an area that already is dwindling in terms of being able to support the commercial businesses there.
 And it's a dangerous and heavily trafficked area that bringing those businesses further south would only increase. I wanna thank you for your time and for the council's visit out to the area yesterday. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Mayor, I misspoke. Mr.Tannenberger had not yet. I'm not sure how I did that, but Mr.Tannenberger should be up next. Okay, go ahead.
 My name is Rick Tannenberger. Carolyn and I live at 2734 East Meandering Way. If you turn down Meandering Way, it's the third house on the right. I appreciate y'all visiting, the council visiting the property yesterday afternoon. I hope that you got a visual of what we were talking about as far as the traffic and the
 traffic issues that we have coming into and exiting our neighborhood. On a personal note, you know, you've had the statistics, so I'm not going to belabor that, but on a personal note, my wife and I have lived here four and a half years, and so I can extend the accident report a little bit past 2019
 But I have been retired and so as a retired person I spent a lot of time in my yard. And on three different occasions in the four and a half years, I have been witness to the screech that you hear when a car puts on its brakes. The boom you hear when you have an accident and the...
 running and sprinting up to the intersection and praying and hoping that the people there, that it's just a fender bender and that I don't have to make some kind of life decision with a vehicle that's turned over on its side or on its top. Those are things that kind of make me sad in some of the proposals that being brought out with the things that are proposed for the property behind us. Adding another 40 or 50 cars,
 by entering that intersection just a couple of hundred feet from the two existing roads on our side, plus the Inwood on the other side.
 uh just seems to me like that we're inviting something bad to happen uh and uh it makes me sad to think that one day it's going to happen so i thank you again for y'all coming out and looking at the property i hope that you saw the car traffic and certainly the speed that the cars come uh to the right and to the left as we try and pull out into 265. thank you for your time
 Thank you. Who else would like to address this? James Bell. Okay, go ahead. Hello, can everybody hear me? Yes. My name is James Bell. I live on 2723 East Londonderry Drive in Fayetteville, Arkansas. I will keep mine brief, as most people have said. One of my major concerns is the transfer of the CUP if the property does sell.
 That is a giant concern of mine because the CUP does add value to the property and it makes it more marketable. And so my concern is if the owners try to sell after they do some engineering studies and the generally CUPs transfer with ownership, that it will then pass on to another developer who may do something. I understand they would have to go through the LSD process as well, but generally,
 having to go through this whole process again. And then, so a great concern of mine is the transfer of that CUP on a sale of that property.
 I do have a great, as president of the POA, one of our major expenditures is the pond. I'm not so worried about the drainage after construction, it's during construction. That's what happened to us when Summersby was developed, the neighborhood above us, that construction silt really damaged our pond, the depth of the pond. And that is a part of the Illinois watershed.
 Illinois River watershed. And so I think it's a kind of a critical thing not only to the city of Fayetteville water systems but and storm drainage system, but also just it's beautiful pond. And I think the damage would be significant.
 And then I think people have talked about people using our private drive. I'm not so worried about residents as much as guests and just kind of the additional hassle with that. But, you know, but my major concern is the transfer of the CUP on a sale of the property. And I don't know if that's something that can be addressed by the city council or not. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Emery, excuse me, Emery Skissom. Go ahead. Hello, can you hear me?
 Yes. Hi, I'm Emory Sism, 2621 East Meandering Way. I appreciate your time this evening, as others have mentioned, and your consideration of this appeal. My family and I have lived in Boardwalk for, I guess, close to six years now, and we are opposed to this conditional use permit, and I'd ask for your consideration of a few things. Several have already been mentioned. I
 Obviously, I agree with Ms. Boykin's data and all the concerns about traffic. Adding additional cluster housing will just continue to make that more busy and entering and exiting the streets along crossover roads.
 Secondly, I agree with Mr. Holt, drainage will continually be a concern. So that's obviously a concern of mine. As also has been mentioned, commercial space,
 Adding commercial space on crossover, in my opinion, is just not needed at this time. We have plenty of commercial space at Mission and Crossover. And especially in a pandemic, as people are spending less time in commercial spaces, it just does not seem needed. Especially when you have that space at Mission and Crossover and East and West on Mission. Most importantly to me.
 Our neighborhood has been united on this front, as you're probably aware from the 100 plus signatures opposing this conditional use permit. You know, in a world that seems increasingly divided, the fact that neighbors from various ages, life stages, political viewpoints, opinions, walks of life, the fact that all of them have been so united carries weight to me.
 and I would ask that the City Council consider that and consider a community of taxpaying citizens that are united against this. Let's see, I guess that's it for now. I appreciate your time, appreciate your consideration of this appeal. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Brooks Robinson. Okay.
 Hi, can you hear me? My name is Brooke Robinson at 2654 Meandering. And I'm going to quickly just go through here. At our last meeting, Ms. Marsh, you pointed out that you liked having drivability and that you preferred the infill for a housing utility. And the developer has already stated that it's going to cost more than it did. It's going to be more per square foot.
 And Ms. Bunch, you made the most impressionable comment last time. You said we need to listen to our community. And please remember, this is my personal and memorable plea. We don't want our community does not want commercial buildings in our neighborhood. It doesn't belong. We would love to have new neighbors.
 families, whoever they are, we don't want commercial. It does not fit in our neighborhood. This developer, he's still going to make a profit, even if it's just residential and not commercial. If we're so concerned about finding affordability housing,
 then we should just build houses. There's no reason to add any more commercial real estate if we need more housing. To me, that's just the most simple, bring it down to it. If we need more housing, then we need housing. And it doesn't fit. A hundred, 150 families are begging you to not do this to our neighborhood. And I ask that you please respect our wishes and what we want for our own neighborhood. We should get to have a say. And this is your own choice.
 This is what you you slotted it to be residential. Please don't change it on us. Please don't change our neighborhood.
 that and i'm so appreciative of you guys coming out and looking at it yesterday and i hope you made a point to look at you know where they're gonna try to put a road behind somebody's backyard where they're can you imagine having a street right behind your house or i mean i'm sure you've thought about all these things but just remember we don't want any commercial buildings here we just don't we want houses we want neighbors um it doesn't fit it doesn't belong
 um and as far as walkability last time um mr scrogan and i think theresa all all talked about the traffic and i think theresa mentioned you'd be taking your life in hand to try to walk on that sidewalk and if anyone tried to like walk down to sonic i would you know yesterday at your site tour i hope you noticed how kind of scary it is to walk down there dog watch is just around the corner i would love to walk my dog down there it's not very far but the dog
 Dogs get too freaked out. It's just too much traffic. You all know about the traffic. You know about all this other stuff, but please remember that we all want neighbors. We don't want commercial buildings. Please, please respect our wishes. Thank you very much for listening to me. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Kevin Corrigan. Go ahead.
 Hello, Council. Thank you for the time and letting us speak. Most of my points that I was going to make have already been addressed. I just want to run through the list, though, just to tell you which ones that I agree with. First, the vacant business spaces that we already have at Mission and Crossover. My biggest concern is not
 just about the current vacant spaces, but the future vacant spaces that we'll have and potentially the vacant space that we're gonna have inside of our neighborhood. If vacant commercial spaces on Mission and Crossover, which is prime real estate, we all know that, a half mile down the road surrounded by a residential area is even less likely to be not vacant in the future. So vacant buildings,
 as we all know, attract crime and other things. So it's just a bad business decision in my opinion.
 Another thing that I'd like to address is the light pollution that's going to come from this. I mean there's going to be lights peering down in people's backyards where right now they have a nice quiet backyard. They can sit out there in the evenings and not worry about the light. They're going to have that with the street lights that come with this project. Access, there's only one access in and out of this.
 project. It's extremely close to two other streets, Boardwalk and Meandering Way. We experienced quite a bit of runoff when Somersview was built. I expect there to be a ton of runoff into our pond. I think several people already addressed that, but I just wanted to reiterate it.
 You know, we bought this house knowing that that was, that was, you know, zoned for residential. I don't want to take that away. You know, if that was zoned commercial when we bought it, then that's on us. But we bought this knowing that that was a residential lot. And this piece of property, it doesn't just, you know, they keep bringing up the fact that it sits on Crossover Road.
 That's just not true. I mean, I hope you guys saw that, that when you walked the property last night, that sits in the heart of our neighborhood, the heart of our neighborhood where we gather, we meet, we have the clubhouse, we have the pool, we have playgrounds, we have a tennis court, and we have the lake that we all fish at. That's what surrounds this piece of property, not crossover. I mean, that's one side of it, but it sits in the heart of our neighborhood. And last but not least,
 I just urge the council to please just listen to your community. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Duncan Johnson. Go ahead. Hello, am I unmuted now? Yes. Okay.
 First of all, thank you for hearing us out, all of us. We've got a big neighborhood and we're all on the same page. Traffic is a concern when I strap my two children in and try and turn left to take them to school or during, well, anytime during the day, it's really a nightmare. You have to turn into the turning lane and I cannot possibly imagine another car
 of cars in and out in such a small area. There are accidents or near misses every day. And that is a very big concern. You know, I understand the infill concept in preventing suburban sprawl. Again, I'm sorry, my name is Duncan Johnson. I'm 2732 East Londonderry Drive.
 uh in the boardwalk community um but you know i understand the infill concept but part of the infill concept is to not disturb an existing neighborhood and this will grossly disturb our neighborhood it will harm nature it will harm our pond it will provide noise and light pollution
 And the whole neighborhood is against it. We have profusely put out there that we welcome residential houses that match our houses and would welcome them into our PLA. But that has not been an option presented to us.
 It just does not fit. There's a negative for traffic, a negative for preserving nature, a negative for preserving the continuity or motif of the neighborhood. It's just, this is a great idea. It's just not a good spot. It's just not a good fit there.
 um and and i would hope that everybody respects the opinions and and please of this community as we've come together and we welcome we understand something's going to get built there we just want it to go with our neighborhood and it's such an influx
 into our neighborhood. We are concerned about what if things are empty and then what do we do now? There are so many open spaces in the four complexes around the strip malls that are empty buildings now. So we don't need more commercial property and I'd like to preserve that Smith house rather than turn it into a bagel shop.
 Again, we just ask that you hear the voices of our neighborhood. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mike Pasley. Okay, go ahead. My name is Mike Pasley. I live at 2692 East Neandering Way. Mr. Tanenberger lives two houses up from me, so I live relatively close to the property that's being considered. Much of what I feel has been expressed
 I do feel that in changing the zoning to allow for commercial property, it completely ignores what the people in our neighborhood thought they were getting when they made life investments in their homes. And I do have a question that I hope can be answered because I'm not sure I understood. Mr. Garner, I don't know his last name on the council. The question that was asked was,
 if this zoning does not take place, would the duplexes that were mentioned by the developer, would the drainage meet the criteria? That's an interesting question because my concern is that, because that might not be true, that that's the whole drive behind the zoning change is to make this profitable enough that, you know,
 he can get a return on his investment or the owner can. That's fine, except that I don't think that that honors the investment that we in BoardWalk have made in our homes. The other concern that has not been addressed is that
 Uh, with 10 homes with say one and a half cars exiting to go to school or to work every day, uh, at peak times, uh, they're going to learn very quickly that a North turn onto crossover is going to be next to impossible. And they're going to learn very quickly that they can turn right and turn right down and come down media meandering way in front of my house. I'm a
 68 year old guy, but there's about 12 children that play in my backyard. Our neighborhood is greened. We have lots of young families. And already, if you drive down meandering way, parents have signs out, please watch out for our children. And those right turns will turn into meandering way so they can turn left onto Londonderry and go to an intersection that's on the curve that is even more dangerous. So, um,
 That's not been talked about, and that is going to be a major impact on our neighborhood, not to mention if the zoning change is made to commercial throughout the day, traffic that comes into that property for commercial purposes, they're going to give up and turn right and drive right through our neighborhood. I just think that that's unfortunate. I don't think that that's something that our neighbors,
 folks who have invested their money should have to endure just those that someone can make what they want to make off of that property. The zoning existed when the property was purchased and making that change so that there can be a good return on investment at the cost of the residents who have bought their property first and live here already.
 is unfair and it's certainly reflected in the petition that Mr. Sism mentioned that our neighborhood as a whole, completely endorsed. I appreciate our city council and the work that you do. I appreciate the planning commission. The gentleman on, one of the gentleman on the planning commission said, in the survey that was conducted, the residents of Fayetteville said they wanted Enfield, but he was very candid in saying, but in reality, no one wants it in their neighborhood. Please count me among those.
 This does not fit our neighborhood. It does change what we've invested our hard-earned money into. And I appreciate your time. You got a tough decision. Thank you. Thank you. Who else wants to address us? Amanda Corrigan. Go ahead. Good evening. Can you hear me? Yes. Great. Thank you. My name is Amanda Corrigan and I live at 2601 East Meandering Way,
 Thank you for providing the opportunity for myself and all the residents of our subdivision to address our concerns with the council this evening. And a big thank you from all of us to come out yesterday afternoon and to get a visual of what this proposal could actually look like for us for a day in and day out basis. But like many have already said, most of my concerns have already been brought forth from other neighbors, including my husband, Kevin.
 One of the things that Emory Sism already mentioned, the majority of our neighbors here in Boardwalk are connected with each other. We support each other and we've done so during some of the most difficult days we've ever seen and ever experienced in the middle of a pandemic. The proposal before you this evening to consider
 These commercial structures would not only disrupt that connection among the community of our neighbors, but many of us see serious safety concerns for our children, as well as the loss of property value, which have also already been addressed.
 As Allison Boykin already brought up as well, the already existing speeding problems we have through the crossover area, we also have issues on the Mandarin Way Street as well. And it will only get much worse if this construction is approved to move forward.
 I urge the City Council to consider looking through the history of the few different traffic stays conducted over the past few years at the intersection of Arthur's Court and Meandering Way. But I urge you to also not only to look at, but look at with a critical eye on the data and remove inaccurate outliers to that data. And I can assure you that you will see what our true concerns are and why we see that this needs to be addressed.
 During the City Planning Commission held recently to discuss the topic, it was quite evident that the members were far more concerned about how to support only the commercial build and preserving the historical structure of the vacant lot instead of preserving the well-being and interest of the Boardwalk families, which I find quite concerning.
 And although I believe in preserving history, I absolutely believe in that. I don't believe in brushing aside the present and serious concerns of community residents. So I would like to ask for the members of the council to please seriously pause, think, and proceed with the decision that you would feel good about if you personally had property here and you had children and grandchildren living in the Boardwalk subdivision.
 And in my opinion, that consideration should be at the forefront of every decision made by our city council. The well-being of our local and loyal residents, not just what is best for potential profits of an investor. But thank you so much for your time and consideration. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Nobody else? Yep. Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council?
 What discussion do we have? What questions do we have? I have a question, Mr. Mayor. What about, Garner, can you refresh my memory on the Whippoorwill property across the street, the size of it and what was being proposed to be put in there? Yes, that was a request to rezone from RSF 4
 to rsf 8 and the issue there was i don't remember the acreage but the number of homes i believe would have increased by one or two uh council chose to leave it rsf four and uh it's now being constructed but i think the issue was one or two homes
 So with RSF 4 and RSF 8 zoning, either one of those zonings, would either one of those have had any type of been part of our stormwater management plan or anything like that? No. Any type of? Well, if they were proposing a subdivision,
 But if they're just building a couple of houses, it wouldn't change, you know, they could, let's say, fill in a pond? And the other proposal that you referenced, Council Member, used the lot split process, which did not bring in the storm drainage retention requirements. Okay. And so I have another question here about, let's see, Riverwell.
 So we've got that. So this is this proposal, this conditional use does have our stormwater management does apply to this property. Yeah. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct. OK. And some someone brought up the issue of and I'm kind of blanking on there was a whole lot of things I was going to ask. And I'm blanking on some of them here. But the Summersbee subdivision is the.
 You know, I don't know how many homes are in that or what the zoning is on it, but they're fairly large homes and they're on a pretty, some of them have fairly steep lots. Is that correct to your best of your knowledge?
 I do not. I don't remember looking at the Summersbee subdivision. Well, there was a question or a mention of Summersbee when it was built, damaging runoff and drainage, silt filling in the pond and things like that. And I was kind of thinking that Summersbee is a little bit steep, much steeper actually than this piece of property, but I could be mistaken on that.
 I'll have some more questions later on. Thank you. Garner, can you refresh my memory? I know on Whippoorwill, a big part of the rationale for denying that rezoning request was an attempt to save that pond. Did that in fact save that pond? No, I did not. Thank you. I have one other question here. You know, we were talking about what the property is zoned as now.
 and what could be put on the property when someone buys the property and they talk about things that can be done by right. So by right, they could put eight single-family homes on there now, I believe. Theoretically, it's actually 1.8 acres and RSF-4 theoretically allows four units per acre.
 But in reality, it would be less than that, I'm confident. So let's say it's six houses. You think that's six houses? Okay, so each one of those houses could have, could they have an attached ADU and a detached ADU? Is there room for that or? Yes, the zoning would allow it.
 Okay, so... Whether it's room or not and how they would all fit and how they would all meet our requirements is a very complicated... I can't answer that. Yeah, it's very complicated. Yeah, it is. I know that. But let's say somebody wanted to build six houses and they wanted to put a garage apartment in each one of those six houses. They could probably do that pretty easily if it's all under the one footprint then. Yes. Right. Okay. Okay.
 and whether they could, whether they could, detached ADU would be debatable, but there might be a possibility that they might be able to in some cases. Okay. And that's what's already there. That's RSF4, yes. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Um, I've got a question. So if we did approve this, um, or didn't deny the CUP, um, would they be able to add those detached ADUs?
 Yes, they could make a proposal to do that. The cluster housing of course prohibits it. Okay, so if we- You can't do it under the cluster housing ordinance. It is actually actively prohibited. Okay, so agreeing with Planning Commission would actually limit the number of possible houses, maybe not statistically, but like at a max is what I'm hearing.
 Yeah, you certainly can make that argument. Okay. Of course, the other thing I want to make sure the neighbors would understand is if they're using a vehicle other than the lot split process, if they're going through our subdivision process and have that number of units, the storm drainage system.
 would also kick in. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I think the two concerns I had with this were traffic and storm runoff. It sounds like they're gonna be comparable or better under the CUP. On the traffic,
 I didn't do the tour yesterday, but I actually am working on a project around there. So I've been driving in and out of that property pretty much the last two weeks. And specifically trying to come in when traffic is pretty bad. And what I saw agrees with what Garner showed us.
 that turning in and out there is way safer than turning in and out closer to Mission and crossover. It is way more dangerous to turn out of McDonald's, left or right.
 or Sonic. I like fast food. It shouldn't be a surprise. But I've come in and out of Sonic and McDonald's a lot. And the last two weeks, I chose to come in and out of this property a whole bunch. And it matches up with the data that having people turn here, you know,
 is not as bad as turning, you know, 200 yards closer to Mission and Crossover. So I'll probably be in support of the Planning Commission's decision on this. We do have, we need more houses.
 These are appropriately sized. I know the neighbors want houses that are very similar to theirs in size and style. But I mean, we can't dictate either of those. We cannot dictate design. The state took away that right. And I would love it if we still had that right, because I would like it if when we add slightly next to a neighborhood, it was contextual.
 So, but somebody can put non contextual stuff in this, whether it's we agree with the CEP or not. So I think this, I think the planning commission got this one right. So thank you. I would also like to bring up, there's an issue about the traffic and, I think a lot of people, and I'm trying to look at this from both sides and be as,
 as transparent in my you know thought process as possible but one of the things that people in the neighborhood I don't think are really considering is that a lot of that traffic is not coming it's not just from those neighborhoods a lot of it is a lot of the traffic that's on crossover you know does come from those neighborhoods a lot of that traffic comes from Elkins
 And I grew up out there. A lot of people, that's where they're building lots of houses. There's a lot of development out there for more affordable housing. And if you want to live close to Fayetteville or Springdale and you need to get into that side of town, that's the way you're going to go. You're not going to drive through the middle of downtown. You're going to go up Crossover Road. And we can't really...
 You know, we can think about what's happening in our city, but we can't stop the traffic coming in from the other side of the county. And you have limited access to get to Fayetteville and Springdale from that community, you know, Baldwin, Elkins, out that direction, unless you come in from Madison County and you come up West.
 Cross not crossover road, but Mission Boulevard, Highway 45. So there's a lot of traffic that comes in from that side of Washington County and from Madison County that would be coming in. So, you know, we really don't have a lot of say so over over that traffic. One of the things that was brought up was light pollution.
 Garner, so when we talk about, I know the city has policies about when you put lights on a building or something, they have to be aimed at a certain angle so that they don't shine. In a commercial building, they can't shine into a house or something like that in that way. When we're talking about lighting,
 we've already got a piece of property that someone could build on single family homes. What, where does that light issue and how the lighting is placed on the house or the building, where does that come into play? Is that applicable in single family homes or is that only in commercial development? And this council member, that subject came up during the planning commission hearing
 And one of the three conditions that the planning commission recommended to you is that the dwellings be subject to exterior lighting standards, which was.
 intended to flag that issue and address it. Okay. So what would that mean for the people around this property? If we accept the conditional use permit and don't deny it, what do you think that might mean for them as far as lighting? And is it just going to be a light behind them or is it going to be, you know, the things that they're afraid of that it's going to be shining down on them and that sort of thing?
 It is intended to minimize that, the life trespass. Okay, okay. Thank you. Governor, I have a couple of questions for you. One of the neighbors asked about the transferring of a CUP upon the sale of the property. Could you address that? How would that work if we supported the Planning Commission's decision tonight?
 The future owner would be subject to all the everything that was part of the approval. Okay. If all the obligation if they wanted to exercise the ability to build this development, they would be required to build it according to the conceptual plan and all the conditions of the approval.
 Okay, and I know that what we've gotten from the developer is a concept plan with 10 units, but could they significantly deviate from the concept plan? Could they build 12 units? Could they build six units? How restrictive is the CUP? Very restrictive. That concept plan is a condition of the approval.
 So the number of units, the size of the commercial spaces, the rehabilitation of the historic structure are all required. So they could not build anything larger than the square footage that's under the proposed CUP? Without an amendment, no. And the amendment process would have to go back through the Planning Commission and then that could be appealed as well. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct. Okay. Thank you.
 I had a question for you. I was just wondering if you could go back to the basics for us and explain perhaps in context of the comprehensive plan the city the 2040 plan or or other fundamental reasons what motivated staff to recommend we uphold the planning commission's decision?
 First of all, it met the requirements of the cluster housing ordinance. It met the goals of the 2040 plan to add a variety of housing types, attainable housing. It preserved the historic structure. So we felt that it met our long-range planning policies as well as the specific ordinances that were applicable.
 As a follow up, could you briefly explain why our long range planning policies that you reference are recommended to be applied in this particular location of the city? Well, it's going towards the direction of a variety of housing types in all neighborhoods. It's going in direction towards walkability
 having walkable destinations. And I understand that this is a very difficult highway to walk on presently, but it does add the potential for commercial spaces to be within walkable distance, not only of this proposed neighborhood, but also the surrounding neighborhood. Thank you. I've been listening carefully, of course to the public and also to the,
 Council members for this ward who thank you. I think you've both raised some good points and some careful points that have helped me clarify my thinking. I'm prepared I think as well to support the planning commission's decision primarily because of the location of this property with respect to the corridor and the major intersection at Mission and Crossover.
 It's, in my view, important to do so because we need to transition this corridor to a more walkable and transit-oriented format. I'm familiar with the metrics that were cited earlier about the feasibility of transit systems. And I know that we can also drill down a little bit closer instead of looking at the full square mile area and look at things on a corridor-specific level.
 And that can be just as valuable. It's not, at least it doesn't seem like it's necessarily the case that we have to serve the entire city with gold standard transit. But we do need to serve a significant portion of the city with very good transit. We're going to have a chance of doing our part in the climate fight. And it seems like this is an important corridor for that. We don't have very many corridors like this one in the city. It's even got a name, the mayor's box, right?
 So that's what I'm thinking of. I looked up the traffic counts and the accident data being clustered closer to the intersection is a compelling point to me. Also looked at the base traffic counts and as of 2019 there were about 27,000 vehicles per day. So there's still a lot of
 capacity in that road, both geometrically for improvements to things like a transit system and also in terms of its raw capacity for higher vehicular traffic volumes. Some of the points that have been made I think are weighing on, you know, I do want to weigh and I'm taking seriously, even as I come to my decision
 But one point that keeps getting repeated, not just tonight, but that we've heard in other cases, that new development like this will lower property values sticks out to me. And I tried to address it at a meeting two weeks ago. It's just a point that gets made.
 frequently and often alongside claims that the proposed developments are too expensive. And those two things I don't think can be true at the same time. Either the property is destined to be too affordable and will lower property values of adjacent properties or it's
 going to be more expensive than what people want to see and is therefore likely to raise property values. I don't see how both of those things can be true. And I see that property values for the most part in Fayetteville keep rising, even though we keep approving these developments. So that's a claim that doesn't square with me. I would expect that property values in these
 subdivisions will continue to rise as our profile in the country and in the region continues to rise. Again, I wanted to thank the Wards Council members that really helped me clarify my thoughts, your points, and your questions. I would also like to talk a little bit about those property values. And, you know...
 I know it sounds counterintuitive. If you live in a neighborhood, if someone buys a piece of property and they put something different to your house next to your house, something that's maybe smaller, different style, that it doesn't go with your neighborhood, and you might think that it would damage the value of your property. Right.
 you know, I really do feel like I need to address that too, because, you know, I've, I've been a real estate agent for a long time. And I've, before that, I was a commercial lender and I've looked at a lot of appraisals and I've looked, uh, you know, I, I know this neighborhood because I live not too far from here and this is
 this is actually, you know, this is to me, this is this whole area of town is just a wonderful place to live. And I really, I've lived there for quite a while and I really enjoy it. But as, as, as a person who's dealt with looking at sales and looking at values and knowing what lenders and what, you know, when lenders do an appraisal, what they look, what they look for and what appraisers look at, you know, if, if these houses were
 If this was going to be developed for a mobile home park, it might hurt the values of your property. But if it's going to be developed as a cluster development with houses that by virtue of being built in 2020 or 2021 instead of 1998 or early 2000s, just when the cost of the building is so much more expensive now,
 They are going to be more per square foot probably than the houses back in the existing neighborhood. Appraisers look at the size of the house. So if you live in Boardwalk and you have a 2,500 or 2,800 square foot house, and these houses are, I've forgotten how big they are. Let's say they're 1,600. There's 1,000 feet difference there. They would have to dramatically increase.
 you know, mark down the value to match the square footage, and they don't usually do that. They look within a mile or half mile radius, and they can pick up houses that will be about the same size. They'll try to pick houses that are about the same age, and if they can't, they'll go further out to just keep the houses more modern and, you know, the same size. So,
 it really doesn't, you know, I don't really don't think it, it, it hurts the value of your home. And, and I, I know that from years of looking at appraisals and, and knowing just what, you know, what things cost and how appraisers look at that. I don't, I don't think it will damage the, the, the value of your properties in boardwalk. You know, another thing that, that I've heard a lot of is
 you know, about the style of what might be built here. And we really just don't have a whole lot
 of a whole lot to say about that. Unfortunately, I think it would be nice if we had something that looked a little more similar to the houses that are nearby in, you know, but the houses that are behind this were built in the early 2000s or maybe some even in the late 90s. And that's not a style that's built as much now. So we don't have a whole lot to say about the style of it there.
 it you know i i it's it's not in your subdivision and you know they just can't buy this property and put the houses that you have i just don't think it's it's really um it really fits there very well and i know you know i'm having a hard time with this because i know i was one of the
 brought this appeal through, but when I look at everything, I'm having a hard time reconciling that we should not go with this conditional use. So I'm gonna think on it a little bit more, but everything that I look at and everything, the way that I need to look at it, it's kind of telling me that the conditional use is okay. Thank you. What else? I have a few words to say on this.
 Whenever you look at this, again, property value is speculative and it's subjective, and that's not a lot of what I'm thinking about here. But I'm not sure that this is the right place for this type of development, according to the neighbors that live there. And if you want to know about stormwater runoff, and if you want to know about traffic, you can look at charts and graphs, and it's nice, but the people that experience every day
 and experienced stormwater runoff are the neighbors that live there now. And so I'm gonna support the appeal because I think that the neighbors do indeed have valid points. Okay. I have a couple of questions I'd like to address to Garner, I think.
 Two of the main points that have been brought up here, I want to kind of come in at a different angle. That pond is pretty incredible looking. And we've talked a lot about the drainage on it and the technical aspects of what would require increased drainage scrutiny and what wouldn't. But all of that kind of pretends like there's not currently water flowing off of this land and towards that pond as it is.
 But when we were out there, Garner, there was a pretty hefty layer of algae or scum of some sort on that pond. And I'm just curious if we have any more information about the current water quality and health in that and how additional runoff retention would affect that.
 I wouldn't want to speculate on what's causing the water quality problems. Specifically, I'm sure the neighbors understand that much better than I do. It's very common that fertilizer, nitrogen, things that are put on lawns contribute to it. They don't necessarily cause all those problems.
 And then the second issue was about traffic. And it seems like we're looking at the map here. And if our concern is about traffic on the crossover, there's a really fairly obvious solution here. And that would be for the neighbors who are concerned about traffic to look at that private drive that they have and work with the
 property owner and the developer to maybe improve that and allow some cross-connected traffic so that we could circulate through without having to add another one way in, one way out on crossover. I think that would be a, I always think that connectivity would be increased, increased connectivity would be beneficial for everybody. I've said that here on my side of town quite a bit. I think options are good, especially when the traffic's backed up or an intersection gets blocked by an accident.
 I am well several of us have said that we're inclined to support the the planning commission and I generally agree with that except that I think they added the requirement of this this fence and locked gate on the back that wasn't in the original staff recommendation and then I think I would actually prefer the the staff recommendation over the planning commission but I'm not entirely sure procedurally how to how to get back to that
 Is there a process for that? If you go to the approval, the three planning commission recommended approval with the 12 staff conditions, and then they added three. One is the exterior lighting, preservation of the Peter Smith house. And then the third one was screening shall be provided on the west property line in addition to the north and south
 Okay. Staff had recommended north and south. I think those first two that they added are excellent additions and I thank them for that attention to detail. But I think fence on the west side is probably going to actually end up being a detriment to both properties. But it was such a beautiful view out there going both directions.
 I hate to see them put up a fence that kind of blocks their pool from observation and turns it into one of those kind of dark alleys that we talked about. But that's up to the neighborhood to decide what their priorities are on their private road there. I think they have an opportunity here to make a major improvement to what's been offered. One of the things that I have learned in my couple of years up here is that
 If city council try, you know, the mayor says that we do a good job of taking care of each other here in Fayetteville. And I agree with that. But if you try to be everything to everybody, you're going to fail pretty much every time.
 Tonight we heard a comment that it was not the City Council's role to ensure a return on investment of a private developer. And then I think it was the very next speaker that asked us not to do something that would hurt their own private property values, which is their investment. So we can't do both. We can't live up to both standards there.
 And then somebody later challenged us to make a vote and take action that we would personally feel good about if we lived here next to this property. And I would say that I have supported things like this immediately adjacent to my own neighborhood over here. We looked at Underwood Park and the much higher density apartments that would be adjacent to mine. So I feel very good about this.
 Matthew and Sarah have talked about property values, but I think we ought to also consider the value of a community here and that increasing the diversity of the housing types and the people types that may live here is only going to bring a richness and,
 greater value to this community, assuming that everybody is open to that and willing to get along. And so I would challenge neighbors to look at what their new neighbors are going to bring to their community instead of just looking at how they may be different.
 When we look at things with our primary goal of compatibility, it's really, really hard to say that some people's houses next to other people's houses are not going to be compatible. So I will be supporting the Planning Commission or original staff proposal if that option becomes available. I'd like to make a few comments. Sure.
 So this is a really difficult situation for me. On the one side, I see saving the historic house as a real plus, a really great investment in the future and, of course, in the past.
 With the CUP, there's the requirement about the engineering and stormwater drainage. So I see that as a really good positive part. Then the exterior lighting that we talked about. But on the downside, there's all the concerns about the neighbors, from the neighbors. And I always really try and listen to the neighbors because they've made a tremendous amount of investment in their homes. We've talked about the traffic
 And that lake is already in pretty bad shape. I would not want to put my toe in it, nor would I want my pet to drink from it. You know, we've had a lot of hypoxic events. We've had a lot of blue-green algae toxin events in Fayetteville. And I'm guessing that that lake has not been tested for that. But I would be concerned about it.
 So this is really, really a real challenge. And I don't really believe, unlike some of my colleagues have said, I don't believe this contributes to affordable housing at all. Those are going to be expensive places to live. The price per square foot is going to be quite high. So we're not developing affordable housing.
 maybe we're creating additional housing stock, but this is not really affordable housing. So I still haven't made up my mind yet. It's a really, really tough situation right now. And I'd like to hear a little bit more information if there is any more to discuss. Thanks. On the private road, I agree that the buyer has a lot of money
 and public safety should be the only ones that have access to that. Even though there is a public easement, it is a private road. So I don't, unless there's some plan for the city to take on the maintenance costs of that, I would understand why they don't want that.
 And then speaking of meandering way and some of the other streets, I know we're doing some pilot programs on traffic calming. And that street is so long up there. I'm sure a lot of the speeding is actually neighbors. So we need to look at some of the traffic calming options in that area separate from the CUP because that is a very long dead end street.
 I think for me, it's getting down to when I think about the traffic, you know, I know this is going to increase the traffic, but, you know, I just wish Crossover Road through there was a better street than it is. It would make my decision a lot easier, but I do, I think what I'm really getting down to weighing this out as is what is there now, what it's by right could be built,
 and what this cluster development, you know, weighing it out, which one I think, I'm sorry, I've got a light that keeps flashing on and off behind me there. But what I think might be, you know, somebody will develop this eventually. And they could put something in there that's probably a higher density than what is proposed with the CUP that we have,
 and not have some of the conditions that are attached to this CUP. Like when we get down to the large scale development, having to go through a drainage program and stuff like that, you wouldn't have to do that with the current zoning. And you could put accessory dwelling units in there. So you could end up with more houses, more runoff and not the same requirements. And I think that's really complicated
 kind of where I'm having the challenge with this because I know there's a lot of things I don't you know a lot of issues that that I really wish we did have some control over like a safer a safer ingress egress of this property and and meandering way and the other streets over there too but but also you know what could end up being put in there it's kind of a you know it's I'm trying to figure it out what what's going to be my decision on this
 So in thinking about the traffic, you know, what I'm hearing tonight is I'm hearing from a lot of people that are concerned that other people driving their cars are going to make it more difficult for them to drive their cars. And we need to think about that for a minute. And if we are really serious about solving traffic issues, we all need to take the responsibility on ourselves to drive less. Right.
 And we can do that by investing in public transit, in having trails and sidewalks, and in having more services and jobs within walking distance of our homes. The other thing that we can do to reduce traffic is to build more housing in the city so that people aren't forced to buy housing outside of the city and then commute in, creating additional congestion on our major corridors, such as Crossover Road.
 I also hear a lot of people, you know, there was concern that these neighbors might divert and drive down their other neighborhood streets. But these are public streets that all of our tax dollars go to support. Just because they're in your neighborhood, they're all of our streets. And I think we need to look at the larger responsibility of providing housing in our community. Right.
 And I hear this argument that infill is not a good fit for this neighborhood. And when we take certain neighborhoods off the table for infill, whether that's we don't let any more infill happen in neighborhoods like Park Place or Wilson Park or Markham Hill, then that increases development pressure on other neighborhoods like South Fayetteville and West Weddington.
 And really what we need to be doing is building a diversity of housing types in all neighborhoods. You know, there are a lot of low wage jobs within walking distance of this neighborhood, but there is no low cost housing.
 And they mentioned that there are four schools. But, you know, when we segregate our housing types and we create entire swaths of our city that only have higher income housing, we're segregating our school districts as well and denying the diversity of incomes, those families to be able to live in these school districts. So these have major implications beyond just this neighborhood. Yeah.
 And then the argument that there's too much traffic along crossover roads, 72 to 75,000 cars a day, well, that's what makes it a perfect fit for commercial development. And I think that this is a very different – this is an adaptive reuse of a historic structure. That's a very different type of commercial space than an old strip mall down at the corner, right?
 So I think that that's going to have a different appeal and that hopefully we'll have something will be more inviting to a business that is more attractive to neighborhood residents. Overall, you know, we need more housing in this city and it's not going to happen if we all say not in my backyard. And really, we need to be putting...
 all the housing and all the places because there are so many people that are trying to move to Fayetteville or that are getting priced out of their apartments or their other housing. And every time we create an opportunity for housing, it relieves pressure in competition and it helps with overall affordability.
 And regarding the housing cost per square foot, there is a certain embodied housing cost in every home that we build, regardless of whether it's 1,000 square feet or 3,000 square feet. It's still going to have a foundation, the site work, the kitchen, the bathroom. These are all the things that are the most expensive. And so as houses change size, it's kind of like we're inflating or deflating a tire, but we still have to pay for that tire. So definitely.
 smaller housing is generally going to have a higher cost per square foot. But as a realtor who runs comps every day, if I'm looking to determine the fair market value of a home, I
 I'm not going to be comparing a 4,000 square foot home with a 1,500 square foot home. That would be irresponsible of me. When we run comps, we look at things that are within 20% of the square foot size that are functionally the same in terms of number of bedrooms and bathrooms, as well as being in the same geographic area and constructed within the same time period.
 So I don't think that this is going to do any damage to property values adjacent, but I do think that it gives an opportunity for more people to find housing and
 Right now we have a housing crisis and we need all hands on deck and we need to be building as much housing as we can and putting it on our major corridors where we can eventually serve it with transit, where it's within walking distance of jobs and services when we get around to fixing that corridor. This is a good place for housing. This is a great development proposal and I believe that the Planning Commission made the right decision and I will vote to uphold it. Thank you. Okay, who else? I'd like to speak, Mayor.
 Mm-hmm. Okay. So what, you know, someone brought up that they, you know, want us to really put
 ourselves and their position that this is their neighborhood and would, would I want something like this near my house? And, you know, when I think about if I, if I was living in this, the typical size house at the boardwalk, which it sounds like three bedroom, two baths, maybe if I had a family, I would have that be a bigger size house. But I liked the idea of having smaller homes nearby because as my parents are aging,
 I think, man, it would be really nice for them to be able to live near me as their income maybe is adjusted and maybe they don't live on as big of an income as they used to. And I could walk to a smaller place where they could live independently, but close enough where I could.
 go and walk to visit them every day. So I really love that we could have a variety of housing available for maybe a young adult even as well. Somebody kind of young professional who wants to feel like they're, you know, kind of young
 coming up into um you know looking at the other houses saying one day i might have a house in boardwalk for now i have this little house and so they feel you know accepted in part of that neighborhood but when we're talking about you know this fence that's going to be on the back side you know there again we're trying to put up barriers and you know that i don't personally think that's a good idea um when we were on the visit which i was there um
 Yesterday night, many, many children came up and were playing on the property and just having a great time. And how fun would it be to have the interaction of those children with people that were there and have ballot, I think we call it, I forget what they're called, but the polls that lay down if emergency vehicles need to go through. And that way it was more accessible.
 organic flow of people in the community. And I just think that that's more inclusive and open and engaging for people as they come to Fayetteville. Maybe they've never lived in Fayetteville and they need to know that in Fayetteville, we embrace and want all people to come here no matter the different levels of income that you have. And so I think the way we build our homes is,
 reflects that and says that and so in our neighborhoods um so i think for me personally if i lived in boardwalk i would want to have a variety of people you know living next to me um so that i wanted to answer that that question um currently the way it sits it's not gonna be part of the neighborhood i mean with fences on three sides where it can only go out to 265 i don't see how
 people feel like, oh, it's in our neighborhood. It's going to the major road highway. And it, and if you put all those walls, there's no way to me that it's going to be in your neighborhood. I understand it's a contiguous, but the other question I have is if it's such an important parcel of land to the culture and the history and the part of your, your, your POA,
 you know, maybe investing in the property yourselves to turn it into a beautiful park would have been a great move, you know, but now someone else has that property. And so we have to consider what they want to do with that property. And I find that this proposal, you know,
 is very innovative and I really appreciate what the work that Mr. Lamb has done and the owner to bring this proposal. So for that reason, I'll definitely be supporting it, but I want the neighbors to know that I did hear you
 And I hope that you understand kind of where, you know, my, you know, where I'm going and why I'm making this decision. I do want to lastly make, I appreciate the preservation of the historic building for commercial use because I think that is also very innovative decision.
 when I was in there. I went into the property. I felt like I could see a bakery in there where maybe you and your children could walk to the bakery. I don't know, just kind of some neat things that you wouldn't have to get in your car to drive to enjoy. So I will definitely be supporting it. Oh, I do have one question, Gardner. Regarding the runoff, while it's under construction, I mean,
 What kind of measures and checks and balances are taken so that that runoff doesn't go into that, you know, that, I guess that's the west side. How do we make sure that doesn't happen? There are requirements for during construction for retaining the runoff on site.
 The FITBIL has very good requirements. I encourage the neighbors to monitor it and call us if anything looks like it's not being retained.
 Yes, thank you. So they would have that contact information and they could definitely reach out to us as well. Thank you, Garner. And then maybe one other thing I know I keep saying that but the sidewalks definitely need to be improved and I agree with the neighbors on that and we need to figure out how to make those wider as soon as possible so people can enjoy the amenities around there so that's all I have. Thank you.
 Okay. Before we go on to the next thing, I have a question about the private drive that runs behind. I didn't walk over to the other where there's a little cluster of homes. There's a gate there. Is that correct? Behind that closes that off that...
 I can't think of what the name of that street is. It comes off a crossover and there's the homes that we were looking at the back of on one side, on the north side. There's a gate on that private drive. It runs up into that area, but there's a gate on it. Is that correct? I believe those homes are on a cul-de-sac. Yes. Yeah. But does that private drive run into the back of that cul-de-sac? I'm...
 I'm not sure, but whoever owns it has control over how it's accessed unless there's an agreement negotiated. That's not part of the plan. Yeah, I know. The access to the north.
 Yeah, I know that, but I'm asking about the development, the little area next to it, because you've got this long private drive that goes from where the bulk of Boardwalk is, and I thought it connected to this cul-de-sac over here. It does. It does connect, yes. Yeah, but it's not open for traffic. Yes, but it has a gate. Yeah, it has a gate that prevents traffic.
 but pedestrians can walk through it. That's my recollection. It's not a fire for fire? It may be a crashable from fire. I think the fire chief probably could answer that. Oh okay. Yes, Chief would you like to answer that? I honestly cannot answer that. I haven't seen the I haven't looked at the gate that you're talking about. We have no answer. Okay all right that's that's all I have. Thank you. Just dump this.
 Yes, we've been stumped. All right. Is there any other comments? If not, we have an appeal. Someone's going to have to make a motion in a second to either vote for the appeal or vote against the appeal. So a yes vote would be for the appeal. Okay. Okay. We have a resolution in front of you all that you all amended last time, and you have three options. The resolution is to grant the appeal to,
 And then under Section 1, you can either grant the appeal and approve a conditional use permit with different conditions, or you can deny the appeal and then the original permit.
 Planning Commission decision stands but the burden is on the people that that are appealing And so that's why the resolution was worded as it was Because the burden should be on them and with unless the appeal is granted. It's a resolution is denied then the Planning Commission decision stands as affirmed by the City Council
 So just to clarify, Kit, we're supposed to vote no to uphold the Planning Commission's decision? That will be upholding it 100%. Now I've heard a couple council members say they don't like the last condition that the Planning Commission put on, which is I think the fence.
 And so that would also be possible for you all to do with the resolution that we wrote. I bet it's going to be more difficult. You'd have to amend it to choose that you grant the appeal, but you approve. Then you turn back around and approve the conditional use permit with the following additional or changed conditions. So you could remove the last condition that a couple aldermen did not like.
 That's more difficult. If you just vote down the resolution, the conditional use as granted by the Planning Commission stands, and the project can be built exactly as it left the Planning Commission's jurisdiction. I move to approve the appeal. I'll second that. So what you're doing, just instead of talking about the appeal, you need to pass the, there needs to be a motion to pass the resolution.
 The resolution does say a resolution to grant the appeal of council members Sarah Bunch, Teresa Turk, and Mark Kenyon and deny the conditional use permit for a cluster housing development and limited business with associated parking. So if you want to grant or if you want to have the conditional use remain, you vote against that resolution. Okay. I move to approve that resolution. Second. Thank you.
 Now, if you vote against it, then we're upholding what the Planning Commission put out there. Correct? All righty then. Okay, is everybody good? Carol, would you please call the roll? Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Bunch? Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? No. No.
 Okay. The resolution fails, Mayor. Okay. Therefore, the conditional use is still in effect. All right. All right. Thank you all. Now let's move on to new business. All right.
 A resolution authorize purchase of three Peterbilt trash trucks from TLG Peterbilt of Ford Smith, Arkansas, for the total amount of $998,764 pursuant to a source well quality purchasing contract and to approve a budget adjustment. Sarah. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Yes, this is the purchase of three front load trash trucks. We have three units that are ready for replacement.
 This total is comprised of three units. One is actually a demo unit that we will be receiving from them if approved.
 hopefully within the next two to three months. That will be modified to hopefully get as close as we can to our specifications. The other two units will be received hopefully within the next 12 months. It takes that long for the build and for them to then send it to us for us to receive
 The budget adjustment that is included is being sent up because we have determined that the units that we are currently using are not really capable of pulling a fully loaded trash truck up our mountainous terrain. And so we are upgrading from the 320 size to a 520 size in Peterbilt trucks.
 So it did cost a little bit more than budgeted. However, we do have the sufficient funds collected. The budget adjustment is moving funds from purchases that have already been purchased and they are leftover funds. So this will not affect any future purchases that we are expecting. And I'm happy to answer any questions anyone may have. What questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak, five-minute duration, broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or the city council. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residence to speak first. Who would like to be first? Okay. I will bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I move we pass the resolution. Second. Second.
 we have a motion in the second to pass resolution any final comments from the council all right care which please call the row marsh yes kenyan yes eddie yes sproggen yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all number two an ordinance way the requirements for a competitive bidding and authorized purchase of a
 of a best 9-1-1 portable command post that that's time sorry best of 9-1-1 portable command post and additional required equipment from at t on the amount in the amount of 35 000 plus applicable taxes for the central dispatch center and authorized future purchases as long as at t is the contractor provided for 9-1-1 services through the washington county department
 emergency management chief well let me read the orders sorry whereas the central dispatch center has been evacuated four times in 2020 and each time dispatch employees were limited in their capabilities because of the lack of portable equipment
 And whereas the Central Dispatch Center currently uses Vesta equipment that is compatible with the Washington County Emergency Management Office's contracted AT&T service and Motorola
 And whereas purchasing the Vesta command post call handling solution is a unique cost-effective mobile solution for emergency call centers in need of temporary call handling capabilities at remote locations. And whereas the initial purchase will be the necessary equipment to establish a single portable 911 dispatch station and additional portable stations will be purchased as funding becomes available.
 and whereas the Vesta Command Post is the only product that will ensure compatibility and continuity with the City's existing dispatch system and with the County's 911 system. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical
 and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of Vesta 911 portable command post and additional required equipment from AT&T in the amount of $35,000 plus Apple taxes for the central dispatch center and
 and further waives competitive bidding for future purchases of this equipment as long as AT&T is the contracted provider for 911 services through the Washington County Department of Emergency Management.
 Okay, Chief, 10 minutes. Yeah, good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council. I appreciate it. Tonight, I am requesting your authorization for a bid waiver to purchase the portable 911 command post. So if that's approved, this system will allow our dispatchers to answer 911 calls remotely or from remote locations.
 This redundancy is valuable should our telecommunicators be forced to evacuate our facilities due to a power outage, a pandemic or a bomb threat, which we have occurred and experienced over the past 10 months, all of those.
 Some reports, as Paul Becker had mentioned earlier in his sales tax report or financial report, indicate that the COVID pandemic has not reached its peak yet. So I do anticipate the future need to provide social distancing and facility separation for our telecommunicators in the near future.
 This system is critical component that will allow us to continue to protect the health and the safety of our dispatchers who provide that lifeline to our community. So we do anticipate the purchase of this 911 portable command post to be reimbursed through the CARES Act funding, which Paul also covered earlier in his financial report as well. So I'd be happy to answer any questions that the mayor of the council may have. What questions do we have from the chief on this?
 Okay, let's take some public comment there. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute duration, broken in segments of three minutes and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residence to speak first. Who would like to go first? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the city council. This is on the first reading. This is an ordinance.
 i'm going to go ahead i move we suspend the rules to go to the second reading second we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading here would you please call the robin marsh yes kenyon yes eddie yes scroggins yes bunch yes yes yes yes yes
 And your national way the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorized the purchase of a Vesta 911 portable command post and additional required equipment from AT&T in the amount of $35,000 plus Apple taxes for the central dispatch center and to authorize future purchases as long as AT&T Is a contracted provider for 911 services through the Washington County Department of Emergency Management
 This is an ordinance second reading. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turt. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes.
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of a Vesta 911 portable command post and additional required equipment from AT&T in the amount of $35,000 plus applicable taxes for the central dispatch center and to authorize future purchases as long as AT&T is the contracted provider for 911 services through the Washington County Department of Emergency Management. Okay. Any final comments from the council?
 All right. Carriage, please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Grogan? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herb? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number three. In order to amend 111.04 application for permits in Chapter 111, Alcoholic Beverages of the Federal Code,
 and 164.18 supplementary use regulations in chapter 164 supplemental zoning regulations and specialized development regulations of unified development code to conform separation requirements for businesses permitted to sell alcohol to arkansas
 Well, can't thank you mayor, whereas Arkansas code annotated 3-4-206 regarding the operation of retail liquor stores was amended to change the separation requirement for retail liquor stores from churches and schools.
 from 600 feet to 1,000 feet, and whereas Arkansas law does not contain any separation requirement for businesses with other types of alcohol permits like restaurants, cafes, and private clubs, but the Fayetteville Code currently requires 300 feet of separation from churches, schools, and hospitals. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas here my hereby amends section 111.04 application for permits by repealing subsection e and enacting a new replacement subjection e as follows
 Section 2.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends section 111.04 application for permit by repealing subsection F and section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 164.18 supplementary use regulations by repealing subsection B1 and enacting a new subsection B1 as follows
 Quote, church slash school. No retail liquor store shall be located within the distance established by the Arkansas Code Annotated 3-4-206 and any future amendments thereto from any church or schoolhouse. Okay. Mary, I believe you have this. I do. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening.
 At the request of a local developer, staff began to kind of look into our current code associated with alcohol proximity and distance requirements. I mean, staff is proposing bringing our existing municipal code into alignment with state law requirements.
 and thus removing zoning restrictions associated with our current code in the following ways removing the 300 foot distance requirement between cafes, restaurants, bars, and private clubs and churches and schools which has no basis in state law and increasing the distance requirement for retail liquor stores from 600 feet to 1,000 feet as required by state law since 2015.
 I'd like to add at our agenda session, we were asked to reach out and do a little bit of public engagement in regard to local institutions that may be affected by the change in this code. And we reached out to over 30 institutions via email and phone and received no public comment associated with these changes.
 And then if I may, I'd like to share a map that just could illustrate for you what that 300 foot proximity barrier might look like if it wasn't removed, if I may. Okay.
 So if everyone can see my screen here, this is the square. Can everyone see my screen? Okay. All right. This is the square here. Here's Cheers. Here's West Mountain Brewery. And we have a church recently that's gone into this building here. So this is what our current code requires, a 300-foot separation distance from this church. And
 while these institutions would be, these businesses would be technically grandfathered, you can see the impact that this barrier, which again, doesn't have any basis in state law, what could have on local businesses. So I did wanna share that with you tonight. And with that, I will take any questions that you have for staff. And I'd also like to allow Blake Pennington as the attorney to add any additional information he'd like to in regard to background associated with these changes.
 didn't you want to add anything mayor i actually uh would like to let uh blake pennington who wrote this and worked on this also he's been diligently waiting for his opportunity to explain this but so if that's all right sure if blake is on the zoom call so we can come in okay go ahead like blake you're on mute there we go sorry about that
 So going back to March of 1996, Fayetteville voters approved the on-premises consumption of alcohol. Pursuant to that election, the Board of Directors passed Ordinance 4042, which implemented regulations for on-premises consumption and also updated the existing alcohol regulations we had in place.
 At that time, Arkansas law prohibited liquor stores from being located within 600 feet of a church or school. And there were no restrictions I've been able to find either old or current on other types of alcohol permits. That's restaurants, private clubs, cafes, etc.,
 So in our ordinance, section 111.04E, we complied with the state law prohibiting liquor stores within 600 feet of a church or school. But the board of directors went further and added subsection F, which says that no other type of alcohol permit can be issued if the business is located within 300 feet of a church or school, unless they only sell wine. This additional restriction, as I said, is nowhere in state law, and I can't find that it has ever been a part of state law.
 In 2015, the state legislature amended the liquor store distance requirement, and now any liquor store must be located at least a thousand feet from a church or school. That is the basis for amending subsections 111.04E and 164.18B1. Those are sections one and two of the ordinance in front of you. In short, this amendment is intended to bring our city code in line with Arkansas law with respect to the issuance of alcohol beverage permits.
 The Arkansas ABC division does a thorough review of all alcohol permit applications.
 And in reviewing the rules and regulations of the ABC board, section 1.21 provides that the ABC director and the board may consider, among other relevant factors, the potential impact of the proposed outlet on churches and schools in the area, as well as opposition or support comments from adjacent property owners or nearby area residents to any application for an alcohol permit. Okay. What questions do we have for...
 Blake or Mary on this from the council. I have a question to Mary. So Mary, you mentioned that you all had reached out to 30 institutions. So were those primarily churches or was it also to the superintendent of schools? Or can you just better characterize those 30 institutions you mentioned? Sure. It was primarily churches. We had one synagogue, but yes, primarily churches.
 And I can provide a list if that would be helpful. I kept a list of who we reached out to. Sure, that would be great. If you'd like to share that, I'd appreciate it. And I'm just wondering why the school wasn't notified. I just want to make sure that, of course, that they're aware of this change and if they have any concerns. So that was just the intention behind my request.
 I'd be happy to reach out. Thank you. Thank you for that work that you've done and continue to do. Yeah, I'll definitely provide you a list of the organizations that we reached out to. What other questions do we have? I have a quick question for Blake.
 When we update our city code to match the state code and then they go change it again, we kind of always find ourselves following up with that. Does this put us in the state where we're incorporating it by reference so that we don't have to keep doing that? Yes. That language in sections one and two that talks about and any future amendments there too will allow us to just –
 comply with whatever changes are made in the future. Okay, so staff will be able to respond to that in the permitting process and it will have to come back here again for review. I think that's a good idea. Thanks. Correct. And I would note that in almost every case, a business is going to go apply to ABC first.
 and then they'll come to the city. So, you know, ABC is on top of those distance requirements and will know, you know, how far they are from a church or school. So that decision should already be made. Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment. Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic.
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name, address, and federal residence. We'll speak first. Who would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is on the first reading. It is an ordinance. What's the wish of the council? I would like to hold it because I want to make sure that the schools are notified that we're making this change and if we could hold it on the first reading, I would appreciate that.
 Am I good with that? If so, then we will just leave it right here. You know, I'm kind of ready to go with it. I mean, you know, so how long are we going to hold it and notify the schools? And then what are we going to do?
 So I guess what I was thinking is that if we just held it for this for two weeks, so that the schools were notified it gives the other institutions that have already been notified.
 an opportunity if they choose to provide any support or concerns, and then we would hear it in two weeks. I just want to make sure, because it is alcohol, we are changing some things just to make sure that there's adequate notification and that people are aware of it. Right now, I personally don't have any concerns with this. It's just making sure that the word is out. Okay.
 Blake, you know, what would be, or anyone in staff there, what is our policy with something like this with notification since we are talking about, you know, something that's sort of an issue?
 antiquated idea of, you know, something we might have had on the books for a long time and we're changing it. What is our policy with notifying businesses and nearby property owners? Is it anything similar to what we do with Planning Commission? I don't think there are any notification requirements in the code for an ordinance like this. Okay. Kit may be able to tell you historically what the council has done on this.
 similar items, but I would defer to him on that. We have had to make changes to the alcohol code before that could be done by the city council. Some of these were done to allow it, of course, by the citizen vote. But in the past, we have basically just made the change, especially when it was to comply with state law.
 and that's one of the primary reasons to try to do this is to try to bring it into conformance of state law and then always follow the state law from here on out. Okay. So all we're doing, Kit, is really bringing this in line with state law. Here. I don't see any reason to delay on this. I would really like to see us move it forward and get it taken care of tonight. So with that, I make a move that we
 suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turner? No. Smith? Yeah. Gutierrez?
 Mayor, five council members have voted yes. It takes six votes in order to pass a motion to suspend the rules. And so do you care to vote? Yes, I'm going to vote yes. All right. I will read the title again.
 An order to amend Section 111.04, Application for Permits in Chapter 111, Alcoholic Beverages of the Fable Code, and Section 164.18, Supplementary Use Regulations in Chapter 164, Supplemental Zoning Regulations and Specialized Development Regulations of the Unified Development Code to conform separation requirements for businesses permitted to sell alcohol to Arkansas law.
 This is on the second reading. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the council? I would like to just, I was thinking, you know, I agree with Teresa. I think two weeks isn't going to hurt to hold it at this reading. So that's why I voted to not forward it. But I don't know, can we stop it at this one? Yeah, if you want to. I mean, it's the wishes of the council. I would like to. I agree with Teresa.
 okay well if there's no motion then we are gonna yeah there's no motion i guess we will go on to the next i'll move i'll second that we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call the roll marsh yes canyon yes yes scroggins yes yes no yes no
 Hey, Kara, I was my computer fell was falling down and I said yes, but I meant no. Can I correct that? Yes. Yes, you can. So no is what I meant. I was distracted. I'm glad you weren't driving. OK, so we have five affirmative votes. Mayor, it takes six affirmative votes in order to pass this motion to suspend the rules. I'm going to vote yes. OK, motion then passes again.
 an ordinance to amend section 111.04 application for permits in chapter 111 alcoholic beverages of the fable code and section 164.18 supplementary use regulations in chapter 164 supplementary zoning regulations and specialized development regulations of the unified development code to conform separation requirements for businesses permitted to sell alcohol to arkansas state law okay final comments from the council
 Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Let's move on to number four.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described his only petition rzn 20-012 located at 226 and 300 south greg avenue for approximately 0.37 acres from i1 heavy commercial and light industrial to riu residential intermediate earth kit be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one now the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit eight
 And the legal description exhibit be both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from I-1 heavy commercial and light industrial to R-I-U residential intermediate urban. Section 2 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1.
 Okay. Garner, do you have this one? I do, Mayor. Two lot rezoning requests located at University and Gregg Avenue, a block north of Prairie, a block west of the Cultural Arts District and the trail. It's got a variety of zoning around it, as you can see. It's RO is office, RMF 2040, downtown general to the east,
 And it's a remnant of the industrial district. One of the two property owners wishes to rehabilitate their home. And they were asking for a billing permit, which we couldn't issue because the I-1 district doesn't allow residential uses. So it's consistent with our plans. It has a high infill score.
 As I mentioned, it's kind of a remnant that's left. The residential uses align with our future land use plan. We received no comments from the public and planning commission staff recommend approval. At the agenda session, several council members mentioned that two issues, one, should we do something with the additional I-1?
 at this location and should we select a district that allows use unit 45 which downtown general would allow that certainly is a solution. I did want to bring to council's attention that our long-range planning
 staff has been diligently working on a trailside economic development plan and they will be coming they're on your agenda toward december the first to uh propose that plan and to uh
 As for authorization to initiate code changes that may get difficult for trailside economic development. I'm just mentioning that, that that might be a more coordinated way to look at both those issues than that introducing downtown general on this narrow residential street. But happy to answer any questions. The applicant is Ms. Powell.
 Yes. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? Hello? Yes. Sorry, can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Yes. My name's Maya DeMette Powell. My mom, Patricia Powell, owns one of the properties. I actually live on the property and it's been a residential home and the property next to us is our neighbor and he has
 a home that has four apartments in it and we were just looking to add an addition for a bedroom because my daughter and I live here and we asked for a building permit and that was when we were informed that it was an industrial site and we could not
 add an addition on and so we were looking to rezone so that um we could just add an addition on i mean this is a hundred year old house so we're we're not looking to change too much and it makes sense for the area and that's all okay what uh questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant mayor i have a question just on that last point you made garner about uh
 not putting downtown general right here on a narrow street. Can you elaborate on what the downside to that might be in light of the big swath of downtown general we've got here with no frontage at all? Certainly can. Let me share that file with you again. I,
 clip the requirements of the use unit 45 small scale production. So it also includes use unit 42, which is clean technologies, microbrewery, micro wine, micro distillery, boutique specially manufacturing up to 5,000 square feet. Then it also includes use group 42, which is alternate energy fabrication,
 These use groups are associated with many of our heavier or mixed use districts. And I'm not saying they do bad things. But this is a very narrow street and it's solidly residential. My question was whether council wanted to add these uses as allowed uses.
 i'm so much the applicant is asking for riu and not downtown general so that's correct yeah so i don't know why we're discussing downtown general but i think what kit's trying to make the applicant is asked for an riu garner can you can you explain why you had mentioned downtown general when the applicant has asked for the riu you're muted
 uh yes i was responding to the agenda item question trying to preempt it that it might come up a week ago i was asked that question what district what district would allow a uc45 well downtown general's right next door so that's why i discussed it i see what questions do we have in the council okay let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration
 broken into segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It is on the first reading. We can have questions or discussion or whatever you all like to do. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second.
 Did I hear a second in there somewhere? Yes, Mayor. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Men? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-012 located at 226 and 300 South Gregg Avenue or approximately 0.37 acres from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Mars. Mars.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez?
 In order to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-012 located at 226 and 300 South Gregg Avenue for approximately 0.37 acres from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to R-I-U Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? Kara, would you please call the roll? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Dragan? Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's move to number five. An artistry zone that property described in his zoning petition, RZN 20-013, located at 4200 East Rebecca Street for approximately 0.29 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 8-year-old spraker to RSF 8 residential single family 8-year-old spraker. Kip?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Gar? Yes, this application is located at Olive and Rebecca on the northwest corner. It's an unusually large lot for this neighborhood. A majority of the lots are 50-foot wide.
 surrounding zoning is RSF4 adopted plan. It's designated a residential neighborhood area. It has a high infill score. There weren't any issues identified to date. The historic grid pattern has a more like 50 foot lot as a normal lot. If we think the,
 lot size if you rezoned it would probably allow one additional unit. Planning Commission staff recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions and I believe the applicant is Ms. Bush, Rachel Bush. Yes, would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes. Yes, this is Rachel Bush. Yes, go ahead. Okay, thank you.
 I agree with the findings of the report, and I would just encourage City Council to consider supporting a proactive rezoning of the Gunner addition as well. The majority of the housing in the neighborhood is actually more in line with RSF 8.
 And it would bring the existing lots into conformity and also permit additional housing so that more people could live in our beautiful, walkable neighborhood. And I'm here to respond to any questions if the city council has them. Okay. What questions does the council have for the staff or the applicant? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration broken into three and two seconds. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. In the federal instance, we'll be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address us from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It is on the first reading. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerowitz, please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Warren?
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 20-013 located at 4200 east rebecca street for approximately 0.29 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family eight minutes break and so i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second yeah we must in a second go to the third and final week karen would you please call the roll
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herb? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 20-013, located at 4200 East Rebecca Street, for approximately 0.29 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre,
 to RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre. What final comments do we have in the council on this one? Okay. Tara, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Drogon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Let's move on to number six.
 in order to approve residential plan zoning district from title rpzd 2020-001 for approximately 20.77 acres located east of east saint street to allow the development of 321 multi-family units with associated parking parkland and tree preservation areas kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves RPCD 2020-001 as described in Exhibits A and B and C attached to the Planning Division's Agenda Memo, which allows the development of 321 multifamily units with associated parking, parkland, and tree preservation areas.
 Section 2, that the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville is hereby approved to reflect the zoning criteria change provided in Section 1 above. Okay, Garn. Yes, Mayor and Council. This request, 20-acre parcel is located east of Front Street, south of Mud Creek. You've seen portions of this property in the past year.
 This particular proposal represents a lot of work by the applicant interacting with the neighborhood by our staff and our planning commission. But in the interest of time, I'm going to be brief because Ted Jack wants to also talk about the potential for the park that is proposed to be dedicated to the city.
 So you'll recall there was a request to rezone these two parcels, the I-1 parcel, the C-2 parcel. The community services, the neighborhood was very concerned about that request. Under the same ownership was RMF 24 property to the east. The long and arduous process resulted in this basic proposal.
 The residential units would all front the future Sain Street, which is about to go under construction. And the land that was in question, that is zone RMF 24, that has floodplain associated with it and steep slopes and is tree covered, would be dedicated as a park and as a tree preservation area.
 I mentioned that there was a lot of work. This is just an example of the planning commission's request being addressed. They wanted a four-way intersection to kind of create a little bit of traffic calming at this location. They shifted many, many aspects of this plan, and I think it's a stronger plan now than it was when we started.
 Issues that have been discussed extensively is the development in the floodplain and whether or not the, except the dedication of the park land which includes floodplain would help with our FEMA community rating system. And to make a long story short, it does help. It may not be entirely a one-to-one relationship. There was also extensive discussion about,
 the issue of the park not having eyes on it and whether it created security problems. And that was reviewed by a police department, which a summary I think of their finding is, is that homeless people tend not to locate where there aren't services. So at this point, there isn't that much of a problem at this location.
 and the ted will talk about parks and recreation so um the recommendation of the planning commission and i was to approve the apartment complex uh planning area one and uh but not not accept the park dedication or the pre-preservation area staff does recommend that you uh approve all three
 and we have two additional conditions and these are more in the area of clarification so there are not any misunderstandings in the future use unit one is simply city-wide uses by right it had not been in their proposed uses for planning area three we're recommending that it be included which is typical um and then the uh
 Implied in plan A, area 3 would be the dedication of a tree preservation easement. But we thought it's good just to put it in writing so everybody understands what is planned. And also to provide for a trail connection which Ted will talk about to East Sussex Drive and East Masonic Drive.
 I'd be happy to answer any questions now or after Ted does his presentation. And let me get out of my presentation so he can share some slides with you. Well, everybody, you all just get 10 minutes. So what we got is I've got 36. So, Ted, you've got about what, Susan, about six minutes? Five minutes at this point. All right. Okay. Go ahead, Ted. You might be muted. Ted, if you're speaking, you need to unmute.
 Okay, sorry about that. Real quick, when we hit several different reasons why we think this would be a valuable park addition to the city. It has gone to Prab twice. Actually, we brought it back last Monday just to kind of update on showing some new things and they reaffirmed their position that they thought this should be a park. Going down to...
 some of the reasons that we think this works real well. One has to do with the type of park this is. There's a lot of different types of park. These kind of show some big buckets. This is mainly a conservation park. It's, you know, state and wooded. It's not the same as a more urban type park. It does have a little bit of a neighborhood park function. I can see a picnic area, something close to the trailhead and so forth, but it's mainly a conservation park.
 And then another point to remember from our strategic planning, some of the things that citizens told us, one of the main things they wanted us to do is create and maintain natural spaces in the city. And this park is really, this site could really do a great job of doing that. Another real strong thing they wanted was active living, and I'll talk a little bit about the trails. And the trails of course are real strong in helping with active living lifestyle.
 Another point to consider is that we already have a lot of parks like this in the city. These red stars are on parks that are either very similar or have parts of them that are similar in that that they have conservation type areas or wooded areas that do not really have eyes on the park type stuff that the planning commission was worried about. So that's not a prerequisite for success. There's plenty of examples of that working in the city.
 you're drilling down that into a little bit more. Here's some Brooks Hummel. Actually, the citizens around there help purchase this park, donating funds to it. So these kind of spaces are real important. Now all parks have risk. You can't mitigate it completely. But, you know, example here Fay Jones Woods did have some problems. But if we didn't have that property, think of how we wouldn't be able to do the wonderful things we're getting ready to do there. And there's a, there are ways
 When you do have issues, there are management ways that we can do if the city owns the land. Then a real important piece is that there's an existing parkland there and that this really knits into that existing parkland, further strengthening it as a conservation corridor. So kind of broadening the view out,
 you can see we have about a two mile corridor that's going through this area connecting uptown to the other parts of the city here and it's a thin ribbon and that area is really developing there's not going to be a lot of spaces that aren't developed in the relatively soon future so this this provides kind of a nice little uh spot where people can have interaction with nature in the city where they can really grab the benefits for that which are many
 Just some pictures, it's really a beautiful creek there. It's one of the largest ones in the city. Just a gorgeous place and I do see, you know, the citizens really enjoying being able to experience that. Moving towards the upper part, the southern part of the site where it goes up to the steeper area, you got some much larger trees. This is actually going into tree preservation, but it's got rock outcroppings, really quite pretty.
 So then kind of one of the strong points when we're looking at this, there's in the transportation plan there was this connection. And then we saw that, wow, with this new connection through here, we can really add a new trail that both energizes the park, but also provides a lot of connection to all these houses to the south to get to Mud Creek. So that's a huge recreational benefit, but it's also a huge transportation benefit.
 so for all these reasons and probably some more we uh really think the addition of this to the park system is a strong uh addition and uh we look forward to um answering questions if you haven't thank you okay uh garner's the applicant here uh mr jared mr hugh jared is representing the applicant okay uh see on yes sir i am here you hear
 I'm here. Can y'all hear me? Yeah, we can. You have 10 minutes. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Council members, I'm sure y'all probably remember, we were here with this with a similar proposal about a year ago. And about a year ago, Mayor Jordan, you told us to go get in a room, work together, and come up with something that we can all live with. And I think this is an example of something that really fits that bill.
 We got with our neighbors, we got with city staff, we got with the parks department, and we've come up with a development that really everyone supports. Planning Commission supports the apartment side of this. Our neighbors, park staff, everyone approves of the development side. It fits within the 71 corridor plan. It fits within the future land use plan, and it fits within the 2040 plan. You know, really, again,
 Really tonight, I am here to stand with our neighbors and to stand with the Parks Board to fight for this city park. We made a commitment to the neighbors to try to preserve that area. We made a commitment to the Parks Board to try to donate that to the city and we really wanna see that happen.
 I think that the Parks Board was founded in 1967 in Fayetteville. So for 53 years, it has been guiding the city of Fayetteville with recommendations on what to do. I think that that has a large part to do with where the city of Fayetteville sits now. We're one of the best places to live in America. And I think that the green network, the trails and the things that they've been doing for such a long time,
 is really a huge part of that. So I can answer any questions that you may have about the development for the parks, but I really, really would like to be able to stand with the neighbors and the parks board with the plan that we all agreed on and live by our commitment to them. And I appreciate y'all's opportunity to present tonight. If you have any questions, I'm here. Okay, what questions do we have from the council for the staff?
 for the applicant. I have one question. Well, first of all, I wanna commend everyone for all the hard work that they put into this to bring us something back that looks pretty good. My one concern is FEMA and the issue with being so close to Mud Creek and also sort of in the floodplain. If somebody could respond to that, I'd really appreciate it.
 Yes ma'am, Ms. Turk I can. We've worked with Alan Pugh who's the floodplain administrator. Flood is allowed. We're not anything inside the floodway. There are guidelines to build within the floodplain.
 we're going to try to work with city engineering you know Sain Street's getting ready to blow right through there it will be elevated and it's going to really change that whole area and we're we're really trying to work with city engineering to handle stormwater and things like that so we can all work together for this site but we we've spoken with Mr. Pugh who handles all that and and it can be done in a safe manner
 One of the many reasons I'm most concerned about Mud Creek is that it does flood. You know, we saw a lot of those pictures before. And then it also runs into the Illinois. And, of course, Illinois is still on the 303D list of streams in Arkansas. So, yeah.
 I hope that there, you know, if this is approved, that there is a real heightened consideration for any damage or any change to the hydrology of that. And, you know, everything flows downstream, right? And then we just saw that over at Sulphur Springs, or Asylum Springs, they're going to put in a big park. So that's right, a big whitewater park. So that's also on the river. So I just want to make sure that,
 whatever development we approve does not contribute in any way to making that situation worse. Council Member, one advantage that this site has that some don't is Mud Creek's flood way, which they're of course have to say completely out of,
 is generous and wide. Much of the land that Ted Jack mentioned that we already own is floodway land, much of that 20 acres. So I don't think, I think when you develop floodplain, it's always a problem. But I'm just pointing out this has the opportunity to do it better than most developments that are squished with the floodway because there's a,
 substantial width to that and then much of the trails within that floodway. Thank you. What other questions do we have in the council? Mayor, I certainly have a question for staff. But looking at it, it's a pretty big parkland dedication, which I love. That's fantastic. Are they banking any additional park donation credits for later development with this?
 to bank parkland it has to be approved by the uh planning commission i believe and i don't think there's been any uh banking of parkland they are fulfilling all the parkland needs for their development but nothing beyond that to my knowledge is that right garner yes that's correct and and they're they're meeting their preservation requirements also but that's that's in in the other planning area so the two that they're not double dipping they have enough for both
 Okay. And this won't be something that council sees again in three to 10 years and says, oh, they don't have to dedicate parkland for another development. They did it already. This is just for this one. That's my understanding. Okay, thank you. What other questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute duration, broken into segments of three minutes and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members, stay on the top.
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address us tonight? Let's see. Brenda Wallner. Okay. Go ahead. Good evening. I'm Brenda Wallner and I live at 3582 North Buckingham Drive. Our house shares the property line with the park area that is with the development in question.
 We started this process like Mr. Jarrett said, we started this process over a year ago. And we adhered to the suggestion of Mayor Jordan and worked together with a very generous donation to the park. And the Parks and Recreations has come up with a great plan. We support this development as a whole.
 And we definitely know that there were a lot of concerns from the Planning Commission. And we do not, based on what we heard from the police, based on if the topography of this hill, we do not believe that there would ever be a problem with homelessness. But on a lighter note, since the meeting started tonight, we've been hearing coyotes in our backyard.
 this is the second time this week that that's happened so i feel like that anybody that wanted to put a tent on the hill would think secondly if they heard all those coyotes so we just want to support and that we appreciate all the hard work that lindsay did and that the parks and recreations did and we would we're in support of moving this forward thank you thank you who else would like to address us
 Mike Walner. Go ahead. I'm sorry. Can you hear me now? Yes. Good, good. Thank you so much for the time. And again, just I kind of want to jump in and dovetail on Brenda's conversation. It's Mike Walner, 3582 North Buckingham Drive. I guess the one thing is I kind of feel like we are in a unique situation in these times, and that's where we were able to take.
 different groups that all had interests and get together and come up with a solution, spend quite a bit of time to come up with it between the city and the parks and the neighborhoods and the community. And we built a really good plan here. So I think it's something that will enhance the value of the community, will enhance the area and the area that we're being developed. And I just wanna really just encourage you to go ahead and vote and get this thing passed.
 that's it thanks so much thank you we also like to addresses Damon Lipinski go ahead Damon can you unmute well we don't have anyone after Damon there we go hello there you go got it sorry
 I'm at 3566 North Buckingham Drive. Unfortunately, Brenda kind of stole my thunder because about 30 minutes ago, my nine-year-old came running in and pulled me outside to listen to the coyotes on Mud Creek, which I know that, you know, what Ted said about having a natural corridor is really true. You know, that's sort of where the coyotes and the deer run. Yeah.
 But I also agree with everything that the Walners have said. I mean, we've worked pretty hard to make sure that the feelings from the neighbors and from the developers and from the Parks Commission were consistent with what is really what we think is appropriate for the city. You know, I mean, to some extent, I agree with the Park Planning Commission. Yes, you need to have some safety concerns, but at the same time, I mean,
 The Parks Department are the experts in this. You know, they know that you build a park that has access, that has sight lines, that has lighting and cameras if you need them. I mean, they just did this in Gully Park. So, you know, we trust them. They're the professionals that know what to do. I don't agree that the Razorback Greenway is a place for the homeless to run as a highway. And I don't think we need to be afraid of that.
 undesirable places you know we've talked about this multiple times this is a great spot that is wonderful green space in a natural corridor and so I very pleased that the parks department has suggested this and everyone else I hope that you guys will approve this as a park thank you Sarah Moore hi can you hear me
 Yes. Sarah Moore Fayetteville in Ward 2.
 I haven't been a part of this full conversation and I've just been listening tonight, but there were some comments that were made and I'm not sure as part of the process when we talk about public spaces around Fayetteville, but we have a fairly large homeless population and many of these folks are struggling with addiction and mental illness. We don't have enough housing. We talk about affordable housing and we don't have enough housing and situations for permanent supportive housing for these individuals. So,
 I guess whenever we're having conversations about public spaces,
 I really want to hear more about inclusivity. Our homeless are part of our community. They deserve dignity and respect. They can be in our parks as well. I understand that we don't necessarily want our parks used for housing, but that is an issue that we have within Fable, and I just hope that we can talk about that and have dignity with those individuals because they are part of our community and those are people. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I will bring it back to the council. What discussions, what's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and advance it to the second reading. Second. Motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Marsh? She's gone. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Yes. Turd? Yes.
 Ben? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. In order to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled RPZD 2020-001 for approximately 20.77 acres located east of East St. St. to allow the development of 321 multi-family units with associated parking, parkland, and tree preservation areas.
 I just want to thank the applicant for going through the PZD process. I know it takes a lot of extra work, but I think as we start squeezing stuff tighter and tighter in and try to, you know, buffer, the PZD is probably going to be the method that they need to go. So I appreciate going through that process, even though there's a long time commitment cost and time in that. So thank you.
 we're on the second reading this is an ordinance uh i've moved to spin the rolls and go to third and final reading second we've got a motion to second go to the third and final reading care would you please call the roll marsh canyon yes eddie yes sproggen yes bunch yes yes myth yes guitarist yes
 in order to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled rpcd 2020-001 for approximately 20.77 acres located east of east st street to allow the development of 321 multi-family units with associated parking parkland and tree preservation areas okay what final comments do we have in the council yeah i too want to thank the applicant here i want to thank you for the work that uh
 that you did on this and getting this all worked out and bringing back something that we can all be agreeable to. Thank you very much for doing that. Okay that being said, Kerridge please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hurd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay thank you all. Let's move on to number seven, a resolution except for
 quote from mcci llc in the amount of twenty nine thousand four hundred dollars percent to a National Co-op in purchasing Alliance contract digitized City records and authorized the purchase of additional services is needed through April 30th 2022 and any future renewal periods uh Kara you have this one good evening mayor and council I just want to go over a few more things
 Next week, I'll be with the City of Fayetteville or been appointed to this position for almost a year. I thank you for putting me on the city clerk team and putting me here at the City of Fayetteville.
 This project is another streamline that we've done. You know, we've been able to go through all of our software in the city clerk office and fully utilize it to not only help our office, but to help our external customers and our internal customers. As you all know, we work as a team at the city of Fayetteville and leadership comes from the top down for Mayor Jordan. We work every day with one another, whether we're on Zoom calls or...
 we're here in the office. So in getting this project completed, this would allow our document management manager to not only further socially distance, have more teleworkability,
 but help our development services department to be able to fully access information when a FOIA request is received. So that, in turn, allows us to get information to the public faster. It allows us to get information to our departments faster, and it creates more time in the city clerk office to help the next person. If you have any questions at all, I'd be happy to answer them. Okay. What questions do we have for counsel on this?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or a city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. And if ever this would be allowed to speak first, who would like to address from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the city council. This is a resolution. Okay.
 I move that we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Thank you, Karen. That's very good work. All right. With that, Karen. Yes. Would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Minton? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Minton?
 okay thank you all number eight northern swiss zone that property described in zoning petition rzn 20-009 located at 6061 west dot Tipton Road for approximately 39.88 acres from RA residential agricultural to RSF4 residential single family four units per acre tip
 Be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RSF4, Residential Single Family, four units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Garner. Yes, Mayor. The applicant is represented by Robert Rhodes and Mr. Rhodes has indicated that the applicant wishes to add territory and substantially change this request. So they are requesting that the City Council refer the request back to the Planning Commission.
 i would be happy to go through the former request but um based on what the applicant's representative is saying it is now obsolete so i'm asking a question whether it might be uh um better use of time to just move on to whether the council wants to refer it back to the planning commission okay okay i guess what's the council well you're gonna let robert go ahead and yeah go ahead rob
 Thank you. I think Garner summed it up pretty well. It would be truly a waste of time to present what we had proposed originally to the Planning Commission because we've doubled the land size and what we plan to do is put together another request for rezoning that will be considerably different than what we had before.
 And with all that said, as far as the process of how to do this, I've worked with the city planners as well as Kent. And this is sort of the best way, I think, to get this achieved. And that is just send us back to Planning Commission where we will do a full presentation of what our rezoning request will look like. And then we'll see what happens with that.
 So thank you, I can answer any questions. So Robert, basically what you're saying, you just wanna send the whole thing back to the Planning Commission, so you need a motion to go back to the plan. Yes, according to our Unified Development Code, the city council can by motion return the proposed rezoning to the Planning Commission for further study and recommendation, and I think that's what Robert has for you to do. I move that we refer this request back to the Planning Commission. Second.
 We have a motion to second to refer this item back to the Planning Commission. Before we vote on that, I would love for Garner to briefly outline sort of the rationale behind the Planning Commission's decision. Just for information. Certainly. The staff and Planning Commission viewed this as at the far edge of the city and the
 surrounding infrastructure is very narrow streets. The surrounding development is very low density, large lot. The proposed development was RSF4. So it was not a proposal for a variety of housing types. So it kind of didn't fit into our view of our planning policies for this area.
 I have a hard time seeing what benefit we will get from sending this back to have it almost doubled in size when that's the rationale. I don't see how that's going to address the concerns, and I'm afraid we're just kind of wasting Planning Commission's time, especially in light of some recent changes.
 I'm not at all confident that we are prepared to make the public investments in the infrastructure that surround this to support it. Just to the north of here, we recently had a conversation where we discussed the importance of the public infrastructure.
 denied some rezonings on the grounds that even though it's a designated growth node, it's not time yet that that's a space for the future. And I think that same logic will apply here until we are solidly committed to upgrading the infrastructure around Persimmon and 54th where Dot Tipton comes out. So I don't see how it is useful to send this back for an even larger land area consideration at this time.
 Yeah, go ahead, Robert. Well, I would hope that what we present to Planning Commission will not just be larger, but it will be requesting different zoning designations than what we had before. And so I hope that wouldn't be a waste of time. I hope that it might be something that instead of denying it, maybe they'll send it to Council with a recommendation.
 That's our hope, that's our goal. We have a motion on the floor. We have a motion and a second to send it back to the Planning Commission on the floor right now. So if there's not any further discussion, let's vote on that motion and see where we are. All right, Kerrimich, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Turt? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. And that passed, so it's now been referred back to the planning commission.
 And that concludes our business. What announcements do we have tonight? I just have one, Mayor. Great appreciation for our staff at Recycling and Trash. They took home a national honor for 2020 Outstanding Community Government Program for Food Waste, Composting, and Recycling Program. So thanks to all the hard work at Recycling and Trash. Yes, well done.
 Mayor, I have one just kind of notice to the council. We have been informed that the Markham Hospitality Owner LLC access easement, which was tabled indefinitely on June 4th,
 They're seeking to have that brought back at the next meeting. They're going to do a planning. It's going to do a re-notification. But I thought the earliest we can get this out to the council and the public, the better it is. So they'll be asking to have that removed from the table at the next council meeting. All right. Okay. I think that concludes our business. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.