Oh, I guess I could try to get it. I would like to call the City Council meeting of November 3, 2015 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh, here. Kenyon, here. Petty, in it. Here. Schottmeyer, little chair. Present. Long, here. Gray, here. Mayor Jordan, here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and the true republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the City Council Meeting Presentations, Reports, and Discussion Items. I believe the Civil Rights Commission Nominating Committee Report. Mark, I believe you have that. Yes. The Nominating Committee met. We had 17 applicants for...
 the Civil Rights Commission, 15 applicants were able to schedule interviews and we interviewed all 15 of them. Again, like we always see in our committee, our nominating committee applications, everyone certainly was prepared and they were certainly qualified and we appreciate
 preparedness as they came to interview. Unfortunately, everyone couldn't be appointed, so this is the slate that we're presenting this evening. For the Civil Rights Committee, the Nominating Committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Candy Clark, one representative of the business community, terminating to be determined. DeAndre Jones, one representative of the business community,
 term to be determined. These terms will be decided by drawing straws at the first Commission meeting. Theresa Turk, one owner or manager of a rental property, term ending to be determined. Rebecca Champagne, one owner or manager of a rental property, term ending to be determined. These terms will also be decided by drawing straws at the first Commission meeting. Henderson Joseph Brown, the fourth.
 One representative with experience in human resources or employment law, term ending 1231-17. And Benjamin Garner Harrison IV, one citizen at large, term ending 1231-18. And Carol Chris Christoffel, one citizen at large who identifies as gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender, term ending 1231-16.
 This is the slate that I bring this evening and bring to be considered. I move we pass the slate. I second it. Okay, any discussion or anything? Yes, John. Mr. Mayor, as the council's well aware and probably the public, I have opposed this from its beginning. I'd like to restate my concerns about this commission. The city council did not appoint these individuals. The nominating committee of our city council did.
 And I'm not suggesting impropriety or bias actually existed. But I'm saying the appearance certainly is present of bias. There were four members of that committee. Three of those four members voted for 119 that was repealed by the people. Those same three voted for the passage of this ordinance. They had every incentive to appoint people to the commission
 that are biased in favor of the LGBT community and against the conservative traditional marriage communities. That's my concern, Mayor. At least the appearance is there. I don't know and I cannot speak to the actual bias, but the appearance of bias is certainly present. So I've urged my colleagues on this council to vote against this commission. Okay. Thank you, John. Any other discussion? Yes, Adele. Well, Mayor, I just want to speak...
 saying that I am in favor of this slate. I have all the confidence in the world and the four nominating, the four aldermen who serve on the nominating committee.
 I served on that committee for four years and was chair for two years, and I know how hard every time we worked to make sure we had an objective group. And I know that our aldermen who made this selection have done exactly the same thing. So I feel very strongly that this is a good slate to bring forward. Yes, Mark. As chairman of the committee, I want to mention that this is the—this
 way that our city council has determined that we operate. The nominating committee has a representative from each ward. I think that we are selected to serve on the nominating committee, to be fair. We recently, only within the last few years, have decided to be very transparent. Anyone can come to the interviews, anyone can look at the applications, anyone can,
 have discourse with any of the members of the nominating committee and there is no impropriety, period. And to even suggest there is the suggestion of impropriety shows a disregard and disrespect for the individuals that serve your city with all fairness and integrity. It's my pleasure to be the chairman of this committee
 and to represent this slate as selected by the committee after open determination, transparency, and fair review of all applicants that turned in an application to serve on this commission. So it is certainly my privilege to be the chairman of this committee and to bring this
 for the consideration of all city council as we do for all commissions and all committees. And hopefully the citizens and the community will have the opportunity, if they have any questions, to review the tape, review the interviews, review the applicants' applications, and see that we did the best we could with the individuals that applied and were interested in serving their community in this capacity.
 This was an ordinance that was passed by the community, and it was the nominating committee's role to suggest a slate of individuals to carry out the ordinance as it was passed by the community with all fairness. And that's what I present with you this evening with all confidence. Thanks. Anybody else?
 Yes, sir. I would just like to note that the members of the nominating committee were appointed long before we had this current civil rights ordinance up for vote. So any allegations that this may have been stacked in favor of this ordinance, I think that could be kind of hard to do, seeing as this wasn't on the table at that point.
 and also just again to invite anyone who has questions or concerns to review the video which you can find on the city's website that access or I'm sorry Fayetteville-ar.gov you can find the actual meeting and you can watch all of the interviews as well as the deliberations and hopefully that will answer any questions that anyone may have thank you
 Yes, Al. I'd just like to add that this wasn't handled any differently than any of the other boards and commissions, including the Planning Commission and all the other various boards and commissions we have in the City of Fayetteville, that the nominating committee selects a slate for the entire City Council to approve or not approve.
 I don't necessarily think that, as you said, Alderman Latour, that the nominating committee selected these members. You'll have an opportunity to vote for that or not vote for that, as will everyone else. Okay. Anybody else? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Latour? No. Long? Yes. Gregg? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all number two quarterly financial report third quarter 2015 Paul Becker chief financial officer Good evening mayor and council. It's my pleasure to do the performance report based on third quarter results Operating results for the finances of the city of Fayetteville I'm happy to report that our economy has been pretty robust and I think we all can be very very happy with performance so far
 I'll take a few of the operating funds and just go over them very, very briefly and what it looks like at this point in time. Again, this is the third quarter, so we still have one quarter to go. These revenues and expenditures were factored into the budget, which we'll be talking about on November 14th.
 Sales tax was up in the general fund, or is up about 7% compared to last year. That's by far the strongest it's ever been since I've been here. I expect that to slack off a little bit in the fourth quarter as we are going against some very, very strong numbers.
 As far as building permits, building has been going on very, very strong. Building permits are up through the third quarter as we're getting a lot of application, a lot of new construction has taken place, especially in the commercial area. The good thing about this is it's going to result in increased revenue in the general fund. Now remember we granted increases, you approved increases as recommended by the mayor in the first quarter of 2015. This gives us the money to cover that.
 But even more importantly, just covering that, that should give us
 the revenue going forward to cover those raises as they go on year to year to year to year. So we're very happy about the performance of the general fund at this point in time. The street fund has a slight deficit right now, but it's going along just about as planned. About $90,000 down in revenue, which is not catastrophic, and that's because of the state gallon tax has not come
 coming in as strong as we had thought. Now, you have to remember that's not based on the retail price, so it's not due to the low prices in gasoline. That's per gallon tax, and it's not quite as strong as we'd like to see. However, it is still within roughly $100,000 of where we had expected it to be. Another fund we'll talk about is the Parks
 one cent tax, HMR tax, and that is restricted to use for maintenance and development of the parking district.
 That is up about 10% this year. It's going very, very strong as our HMR taxes are strong. We've had a lot of visitors in town. We have a lot of people patronizing our restaurants, and we certainly have them here in Fayetteville, plus citizens of Fayetteville, where we're also participating in entertainment and visiting restaurants here.
 In Fayetteville, the good thing about this being strong is this is going to help us with our regional park down the road, as you know.
 run phase one right now we're going to have an agenda request coming forward a little later talking about the completion of the lights uh... in the soccer field and additional baseball field part of that is predicated by this increase in h m our taxes this year as you remember back in march we recommended that that be cut back a little bit but these revenues are strong enough that we feel at this point time we can push on with those very very needed uh...
 Needed developments at the regional park the parking fund. We're very happy As we all know to have the parking deck open up We're running a small surplus in the parking fund right now revenues are about where expected We still don't have a handle on the new deck we're going to have to look and collect some data see if the new deck is generating new parking and
 down in the Dixon Street area, which we certainly expect it and hope it will. That's why it was built and see if they offset the additional costs it will take to run that. So at this point in time, the parking fund is doing good, but we're going to keep an eye on that in the future to see how the financial ramifications of the opening of the new deck works out.
 Water and sewer fund is down a bit, but remember we had a very, very strong capital plan going forward this year in excess of $9 million worth of capital programs going down. So we're catching up with some of our capital programs that hadn't been completed in past years. As far as water, the water sales are down a bit because of the wet spring.
 However, sewer services are up, and that's a demonstration that we do have new people coming on board, new customers. However, the water usage is totally dependent on weather. So we're doing well in the water and sewer fund. Looking at recycling, trash collection, the Dropbox program is up, and that's primarily up because of the new construction. As new construction takes place, we have recycling.
 Certain of the haulers, plus, in fact, we run our own drop box
 participating in that, bringing in some new revenue. Revenue's up about 3%, but of course expenses are going to be up because we also have to play to get rid of that material. Also, as we know, we have a large capital program going on, that money is with accumulated funds from the past in anticipation of that capital program which had been duly approved. So the recycling and trash collection,
 The fund is also going along well.
 The airport, we have a slight deficit at the airport, but that's to be expected because again, we have an expanded capital program, a little more than revenue. Also sales of gasoline at the airport are down compared to what we expected. Now that reduces our operating expenses too because we also have to pay for the gasoline. But the airport at this point in time, I'll say is holding its own. Now we remember the one thing about the airport is with its age,
 it is aging rapidly, it is depreciating rapidly, and we have to depend right now on federal grants to do a lot of our capital programs. We also have to match those grants. So that's a fund we're gonna have to keep an eye on in the future to make sure we stay up with capital so it can continue safe operations. And we'll talk some more about that, certainly at budget time, we'll be talking about that in the future. Those are the primary funds. All of the smaller funds are,
 just about where we expected to be but i'm very very happy with our financial position at this point in time and i'm more than happy to answer any questions what questions do we have all on this okay thank you paul thank you okay on the consent agenda tonight what i have is number one approval of october 6 2015 and october the 20th 2015 city council meeting minutes
 Number two, a resolution to award bid number 15-53 and to authorize the purchase of a Ford F-350 with reading utility body and Tiger crane from Lewis Ford Sales Incorporated of Fedville in the amount of $55,006.38 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division.
 Number three, a resolution to award bid number 15-54 and to authorize the purchase of a Ford F-250 with reading utility body from Lewis Ford Sales Incorporated, a federal ending, amount of $32,978.38 for use by the Parks and Recreation Department.
 Number four, a resolution to amend resolution number 81-15 concerning the purchase of a rotary lift system pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance purchasing agreement for use by the Fleet Division. And number five.
 A resolution authorized the destruction of certain records shown on the attached affidavit pursuant to relevant code sections of the Arkansas Code annotated related to maintenance and destruction of accounting court and other records. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty?
 Yes. Yes. Right. Yes. Okay. Under new business. Number one, a resolution award bid number 15 to ask 57 to authorize a contract with Austin King Incorporated DBA King Electrical Contractors Corporated for.
 electrical services on an on-call basis for a period of one year with an automatic option to renew for four additional years. Paul, I believe you have this. Yes, this is a contract. This went out for bid and the winner of the bid was Austin King. What happens is we have a lot of small items that we need electrical work done for. Some of them have to have almost instantaneous response because it affects operations.
 Many of them have to do with construction projects we have going forward. One issue that we have is in our purchasing procedures, anything over $1,000, between $1,000 and $20,000, the departments involved must get quotes, three quotes. So for electrical service for these smaller jobs, they have to go out and try to get quotes.
 problem is a lot of these uh... electrical uh... people and i don't want to submit quotes a lot of this because it's too small so purchasing felt the best thing to do with bid these small items have somebody out there with a proposal per hour proposal uh... plus what the cost of parts would be that is the markup on parts for these small jobs i want to make a couple of things clear
 Number one, this is not an exclusive contract. We don't have to use King Electric. Quotes are given before the job occurs. So in other words, when a department has a job, they get King to give them a quote. If they don't like the quote, we go out and look for somebody else.
 Any contract over $20,000, we bid anyway, irrespective of this. Now, there are times when King is, in fact, the winner of that particular bid. All bids over $20,000 come to council, but any point in time that we think those amounts are too high, we can go on to somebody else. It's not an exclusive contract. Also, it's a one-year contract with four years to renew them.
 Again, if we examine the packet, we'll see there's a substantial schedule of call-out time, what's the differential between night or work and what's the level of person. But I think the key control that we do have on this, and that was the question asked at the agenda session, is one, we don't have to accept the quote. We ask for a quote before they do the work, so we examine that at that point in time. And I'll be happy to answer any questions on this issue. What questions do we have for Paul on this?
 I have one question, and sorry I wasn't able to ask you at agenda. I know that the City Council passed a resolution this last year about outsourcing things from the city and keeping things in-house where possible, where our city employees would actually do the work. This would be something that I think would fall in that. Are we trying to add redemption to that for this specific contract? I'll be happy to speak to that, Alan.
 If we can do it in-house, we do. We do have an electrical, we have an individual skilled in electrical work. They address and repair that when they can, the same as an air conditioning. We have an air conditioning specialist who does it.
 They call them in when it's a job one too big for them or that they can't handle. But many of the jobs are too large. We don't have staff to handle us. We have one person who does the electrical work and he does other things in addition to that. So facilities management, which reports to me we do as much as we can.
 But we fire them out when we have to, when we need the help or don't have the current staff to do it. Okay, so we do in-house what we can. Thank you. I appreciate that. Any other questions? Okay. Any public comment on this? So then I'll bring it back to the council. I move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes.
 No. Yes. Yes. Thank you all. Number two, a resolution to authorize a contract, King Electric contractors in the amount of $66,240 per cent to bid number 15-57 for the installation of LED trail light fixtures and light poles along the town branch trail from Great House Park to Hollywood Avenue and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $6,624. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. This is for the Town Branch Trail, which is nearing completion south of 15th Street. We did order lights, and they've actually come in, 94 lights to go along this trail. Our in-house construction crew has installed the conduit and the pull boxes, so we do try to have as many things that we can do in-house with the trail lighting as possible. But for the actual wiring and installation,
 and connecting the lights and setting up the meter pedestals, that's where we bring in the electricians. And so pursuant to the previous item, we would be hiring King Electric as our low bidder to do that work and install. They did provide proposals, very reasonable proposals based on some other bids that we've had. They're very reasonable and that's what the council considers approval. Happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Matt?
 All right. Do we have any public comment on this issue? Seeing none, I will bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Move to pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. Fisher. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay. Number three.
 A resolution to approve a contract with Boyette Strategic Advisors in the amount of not to exceed $89,210 to facilitate and prepare an update to the City's Economic Development Strategic Plan and to approve a budget adjustment. Jeremy. Thank you.
 As staff is recommending approval of a contract with Boya strategic advisors to facilitate and prepare an update to our economic development strategic plan. This came about as consensus of the city council members who attended several input sessions that the mayor had to start to start out with an update to our strategic plan.
 Our current economic development goals, our focus areas and our target industries as reported to you all quarterly by the chamber are currently driven largely by strategic plan objectives that were created in 2008 and 2009 in two separate studies. In 2008 we did an economic strategy session with Eva Klein and Associates
 which produced a strategic framework commissioned as a joint project between the university and city. And in 2009, we went through a collaborative visioning process facilitated by Bliss Brown called Payable Forward. This process focused on a variety of topics around which the city and volunteers could spur eventual action in target areas, such as transportation, local foods, creative economy, public education, a green economy, job growth, and so forth.
 Out of that process, the city council took bids through a selection process and selected the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce through a competitive bidding process. That was in 2009, and they have performed our economic development consulting services since that time.
 The city to find specific focus areas work tasks and deliverables for the Chamber to achieve as part of that contract using the information gained from the 2 studies. Those are the specific framework in which the Council of the Chamber reports to you all every quarter around those goals and tasks.
 As I mentioned in recent discussions with the City Council members during our input sessions as well as focus groups that the Mayor's had indicate there's a desire for us to update our strategic plan related to economic development. And the Mayor agreed with Council in that direction and prepared an RFP accordingly, calling for proposals to conduct a strategic plan update. There were seven submittals as part of this process and after shortlisting and interviewing
 The selection committee, which also included Mr. Kenyon, recommended Boyette Strategic Advisors to facilitate and prepare this plan. Boyette brings a wealth of knowledge in this arena. They've done a number of strategic plans all around the country. They do have an office located in Arkansas. They were the only one of the groups that had an office located in Arkansas. We felt that was particularly important because Mr. Boyette in particular has experience with
 the Arkansas Economic Development Commission, familiarity with state laws relative to Arkansas and what impact the city can and cannot do related to economic development, but also a project client list across the country
 and the experience that will enable their office to bring a fresh perspective to Fayetteville. They've also recently worked with Bentonville, providing some economic development services, and we believe they have a close familiarity with Northwest Arkansas's economic climate, which is different than much of the rest of the state. This proposal would be in a price not to exceed $89,210, including all expenses. These funds are proposed to be drawn from the proceeds of Wilson Springs and Tyson property sales,
 and is a five month contract. This was the lowest submitted quote of the ones that we reviewed. Most, if not all others, exceeded $100,000.
 included in your staff memo, there's our staff packet with the contract. There's also a scope of services. I'd be happy to go over any of those with you if you have any questions. But in general, we'll be looking at a review and assessment of our economy and demographics, where we think we should be within the next five to ten years, and our evolution of time, an assessment of how –
 Sorry a benchmark of our current economic strengths and weaknesses against the state but also against high-performing cities that we regularly benchmark ourselves against to against
 We also want to look at redefining our target businesses, identifying what sectors we should focus on. You all see items at times to look at economic development investment, such as a Whole Foods or an industry coming to Fayetteville, and at times we don't really have an understanding of what areas we should focus taxpayer dollars toward, and so this will enable us to be better focused and informed in making those decisions.
 We'll also be looking at the city's structure relative to economic development services and our delivery system, a discussion of metrics related to how we can implement this plan, a very specific set of benchmarks, recommendations for production of marketing materials and branding for the city, and then also identification of policy directives that could follow. I'd be happy to answer any questions, but we are recommending approval of this resolution.
 Yes, Sarah. On the Exhibit A services that's attached to the contract, one thing that I noticed that was missing under the recommendation development was local foods. That's something that we have represented in our Economic Accountability Council, and I feel we would be remiss to leave that out.
 I think it's something that we could certainly speak about. You know, what they intend on doing, if you'll notice, at the project launch, is really to try to find the stakeholders and identify those target sectors we really want to identify and focus on. So they really didn't want to come in preconceiving anything that Fayable really wants to focus on in this economic development strategy, but it's certainly something we can discuss with them. And hopefully it will come out of those stakeholder meetings as well.
 And then as far as the discussion on, through the committee, the selection committee, was it unanimous in support of this group or was there some support for other groups as well? Do you recall what the vote was? I don't recall the vote. It was very strong support. I know we shortlisted three, interviewed three. Right. I think after we had the interviews and we had open discussion, then it was pretty much consensus. The price was right.
 deliverables was very appropriate for what we were challenged with. The top three candidates were all very strong, admittedly, but this candidate, as Jeremy said, exceeded in the area of already having a lot of information that was relevant. The price was right.
 After a lot of discussion, it seemed like a very good fit. We are gonna have a lot of opportunity to interact with this organization. All the stakeholders in the community are. And so that is going to be pivotal in having a real broad representation in the first phase of this, of the development of our economic plan.
 the hours put into this was very long and there was uh i think maybe some of the most in insightful uh discussion of rfp committees that i've worked on because we know the importance of this as we move forward we wanted to be sure that the previous visioning was accounted for and this is a organization that already had information regarding that
 But we also wanted to be sure that they had a broad understanding of similar cities across the nation so we didn't have a tunnel vision. And if you look at the cities that they have done work with and that we reviewed the activity with, they were very good at, instead of using a template that was similar in every city, every city had a very individualized template.
 accounting of what they asked for and what was delivered. And I think that that was a point that was considered as we had our discussion also. So any of the top three would have been excellent, but they did excel in those points that Jeremy mentioned, I think. And so in the end it was concluded that this was the best as we move forward.
 I guess I'm just feeling a little concerned that, you know, if they're already working with Bentonville and the Northwest Arkansas Council, I just, I want to make sure that this is about Fayetteville specifically. I am so glad you brought that up because I think that was the first thing on everyone's mind, and it was the first thing that I think that they handled very appropriately by pointing out the cities that they had worked with.
 And before we even had the chance to inquire, they were very upfront. What was impressive about this, they didn't do it by Skype, they didn't send a representative, they brought their team. And so we had a real good insight on what the team members had to offer. And the first thing that Mr. Boyette said is, I know what you're thinking. We've already been with Bentonville and I want you to know I've already,
 I've done my previous homework. I'm prepared. I want you to know up front Fayetteville is not Bentonville. Then we had a lot of inquiring comments regarding that because we wanted this to be specifically designed for Fayetteville and to be sure that there was not a preconceived template that was being used as we moved forward. Okay. Thank you.
 Jeremy, could you describe, here's my concern, we just raised taxes on our citizens. We just spent $3.5 million renovating the administrative offices of our recycling facility, which our chief of staff admitted would not be used for anything if we were to at one point move our recycling trash collection to a private concern like waste management, like Springdale does. I'm concerned when we have a price tag of nearly $90,000.00,
 Explain to me the adverse effects on our city, our economic development, our business environment, our employment environment, if we didn't commission this study, number one. Number two, tell me how frequently we have a study of this type performed in our city. To answer the second question first, the frequency the last time was 2001 and 2009. So I guess that's seven years.
 seven years ago, oh that's right, almost seven years ago. And one of the reasons for that study was to, sort of the reason we're doing this again, and maybe I'll answer the question the opposite way, instead of the adverse impacts, potentially the potential benefits,
 As a city, particularly cities that are growing very rapidly and as a region we're growing rapidly, it's important to understand how to invest our city funds, what funds we do invest. And when I say invest, I mean where we build water lines, where we build sewer lines, where we upgrade streets.
 There's an economic development decision that was made to invest in a bond program and place certain ban ash connection Rupal Road connection to improve College Avenue. Those are all investment decisions in some form or fashion in order to hopefully incite private investment to follow and so we are hoping to
 create a very clear strategy for the council and for citizens to follow so that we understand and have a focus on what we're investing in in the future. The city council, as an example, approved a
 It's a $250,000 traffic signal for the construction of Whole Foods. And maybe I'm off on the cost, but somewhere in the $10,000 range for Whole Foods in the last year and a half. That was a decision brought forward by a singular project, and it was a decision made by the council as an investment for economic development. We want to be able to be forward looking as opposed to a project already locating here and they're simply asking us for
 help with the infrastructure investment. This will hopefully enable us to focus on specific investments so that we don't fall behind our neighbors in the region. Most of our neighbors, if not all, have a strategic plan in place to help them guide and focus areas. Our region does through the Northwest Arkansas Council.
 specific targeted goals that we can set and measure our performance against not only our region but other cities that we're competing for dollars. We're competing for folks that want to move here for jobs, for recreation, for any of those things that assist us in our overall health of the economy. Mayor, I want to add to that.
 This is an agenda item being brought by the staff, but at the direction of the council. And so this wasn't the staff bringing this forward. The input sessions that Mayor Jordan called for the city council to come and give input, the consensus of the group that participated was that you wanted to have an updated strategic plan for economic development and instructed the staff to go and develop and do so through an RFP. So just like on the,
 building issue that you brought up the reason that we don't we're moving forward with bringing that forward is because we have a resolution by the council that says we're not going to outsource our services and so we plan for the expansion of our waste and recycling facilities just like in this scenario i think the better question is to the peers on the council of what is the detriment if it's not done because we're doing it at the direction of the aid of you
 as a follow-up question jeremy is there a particular reason why we're having the study done at this time and not in year nine or year ten or back in year five one reason is that our economic development contract expires we recently extended it for six months so that expires next april and so we want to make sure that as we go forward with a new contractor for that particular item we have a clear vision and plan that they can assist us in implementing
 Thank you. Sure. This initiative is really about writing a business plan for our community. And it's about doing the research, identifying who our target market is, what our assets are, what our potential liabilities and challenges may be so that we can effectively plan for that. And I think it would be irresponsible of us to keep moving forward without a business
 a very well thought out business plan. So I'm glad to see that we're doing this. As I've traveled to conferences around the country and heard what other successful cities are doing, I'm not seeing us doing a lot of the things that are making them successful. And I want us to stay at the cutting edge. I want us to see us
 attracting the best and brightest or retaining the graduates of our university And this can really help us Strategically invest our resources so that we are getting the maximum benefit out of that and stay a great place to live So I move that we pass this resolution Well before we do that we do need to take some public comment we'd like to address this on this issue I
 mayor peter thomas in ward three i'm just curious are there any identifiable gains that were made as a result of the 2009 study um where we can actually show what they said that we couldn't have seen for ourselves i mean if we're i appreciate what mr kinion said that it's not just a template that it's custom tailored to each community but i don't know why the community can't see this and do it
 for itself with the resources that we have, the people who are here. And then two other questions. Will the study consider what happens if the whole economy tanks? In other words, if the rising tide goes down, then this will have been $90,000 that will be spent that may have been irrelevant. And will the study consider the effect...
 In terms of attractiveness to outside businesses of having city governments that spend a lot of money that maybe didn't need to be spent Will that be studied? I did read the whole proposal. It's well written. It's very professional, but it reads like every other Consulting proposal that I've ever read and I accept mr. Kenyon's assurances that I
 These people are here to give the city of Fayetteville what the city of Fayetteville would want But I don't know why the city of Fayetteville doesn't know what the city of Fayetteville wants. Thank you Peter anyone else like to address Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. We have a motion to say Okay Sandra would you please call the roll Marsh? Yes Yes, Eddie. Yes Yes
 what chair no long yes right yes okay thank you all number four a resolution to approve change order number a to the contract with crossland construction company any amount of 754.53 to add a fourth baseball field in the lighting for the soccer complex
 at the regional park to approve an additional project contingency in the amount of $9,547 and to approve a budget adjustment. Thank you, Mayor, Council. I'm Allison Jumper with the Parks Department. We are bringing forward a request for a change order with Crossland Construction and also approval of a budget adjustment for the construction of—
 portion of phase one of the regional park we bid this phase in late 2014 and value engineering was Necessary after the bids came in to bring this project within budget since that time additional funding has become available And tonight we are requesting to add two of those items back into the project Those include one baseball field to complete the four field complex as well as the lights for six soccer fields. I
 We feel that this will build a more complete phase one of the project. It'll enable us to more efficiently use and schedule the baseball complex as well as extend the hours of play for the soccer to accommodate our growing soccer program. We don't anticipate any additional days to add these items back in and at this point we're still on target to open this phase of the park in the fall of 2016. What questions do we have for Allison on this? Thank you Allison. What public comment do we have on this?
 bring it back to the council what's the wishes of the council we passed the resolution second we have the motion second to pass the resolution is there any final comments on that okay saundra would you please call the row marsh yes kenyon yes petty yes yes yes long yes right yes okay number five
 A resolution to reject the recommendation of the urban forester who determined that the tree preservation mitigation areas and easements and dedications agreed to and signed by the owner developer on June 25, 2014 should not be vacated or changed by a new development proposal for this acreage. Mayor, although this is a resolution, I think I'd like to read the whereas clauses, kind of set the stage about how we got here.
 Whereas Lots 13 through 19 of Meadowfield subdivision along Shiloh Drive was approved for development of a Hyundai car dealership in June of 2014 and whereas the owner developer Opposed about 10% of this acreage be dedicated for tree preservation and that the remaining tree preservation requirement Be accomplished by planning 39 on-site mitigation trees and the remainder required by the tree ordinance be paid into the tree escrow account. I
 Whereas the owner-developer signed the easement plat for these seven lots, documenting the tree preservation areas and easements on June 25th of 2014, which was filed for record on June 27th of 2014. Whereas the owner-developer in September of this year, 2015, presented preliminary plans
 for a new tree preservation plan to the urban forester for a second car dealership, Volkswagen, to be constructed on three of these lots, and whereas these preliminary plans propose construction of infrastructure and parking areas within the tree preservation and mitigation areas previously protected by the developer's June 2014 easement plat,
 And whereas Urban Forester rejected the owner-developer's proposal to allow the vacation of 5,300 square feet of tree preservation area and the relocation of all 39 planted mitigation trees by planting sufficient new mitigation trees somewhere off-site. So that kind of sets it forward. We have Urban Forester here to further explain his decision. Good evening. Derek Lynn, Urban Forester at the City. Thank you.
 uh when the recently constructed hyundai dealership was reviewed by the planning commission in 2014 uh true preservation for that development and for future development on lots 13 through 19 was met via preservation of 0.84 acres of land planting of 39 mitigation trees and payment into the tree escrow account the true preservation area was signed
 Apologies for the interruption. So this is the area of interest that is being discussed. So we're just west of I-49 and at the eastern side of Foxglove. I'll resume that for these preservation requirements, a true preservation area was signed by the owner representative on June 25th of 2014 and recorded at the Washington County Courthouse.
 When preliminary proposals for a Volkswagen dealership indicated a proposed parking lot within these recently established mitigation and preservation areas, staff did inform the applicant that the 2014 conditions met the requirements of both existing and future development in this area, and have recommended that the applicant continue to explore design alternatives and layouts on these lots that would respect the recently dedicated areas.
 The request is to vacate approximately 5,300 square feet of preserved trees and to displace recently planted mitigation trees. For this, the applicant has proposed to relocate the trees at an undetermined location and to plant 36 mitigation trees in lieu of the displaced mature preserved canopy. Staff is recommending denial of this request through the following determination.
 A, the mature trees preserved are a desirable stand of native hardwoods, including large oaks and elms, several that are at 20 inch diameter and greater. The area B, the area requested for vacation was a condition of the Planning Commission approval in 2014 for this recent development and signed by the owner.
 Letter C, with the proposed development plan, there's actually not adequate space on the project site to plant the 76 trees being requested with this proposal. D, the applicant has offered to plant mitigation trees in a public park or on property owned by Fayetteville Public Schools, however, neither of these are advisable options per staff's opinion.
 While mitigation in parks may be granted through council resolution and advice by park planning and urban forestry, the intent of off-site forestation in parks is to plant at a nearby location that would benefit the general area of impact. And park planning staff have not identified a park property in which location, in which mitigation for this loss canopy would be advisable.
 Finally, regarding planting on Fayetteville Public Schools or other lands, offsite trees planted to meet mitigation requirements must be planted on lands owned by the applicant. Finally, while both preservation and planting of new trees is an important approach to a healthy urban forest.
 The portion that's been preserved is a small portion of the overall 11 acres of the subdivision, and whereas the preserved trees are currently providing benefit, new replacement trees would take years to potentially reach the benefit of mature urban forests. I'd be happy to take any questions. All right. Thank you. Is the applicant here, would they like to make, and then we can fire questions at both of them.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. I'm Tom Henley with Craft & Toll, representing the Crane Automotive Group. Just a little more elaboration on kind of how we got to the situation we're at. At the time the Hyundai dealership was constructed and the tree mitigation was dedicated, or the tree preservation was dedicated, the Cranes didn't know what type of auto dealership was going to go adjacent to the Hyundai dealership.
 Apparently, Volkswagen has a fairly significant approval process that goes back and forth. We've done countless numbers of designs and revisions, sent them back and forth to Germany for approval. They've got a certain set of criteria that they require the dealership to meet as far as inventory on site and that sort of thing. And we have, in fact, done...
 I've lost count the number of different iterations of designs that we've done on this property to try and meet all the criteria. We did not do the Hyundai dealership. Craft and Toll did not design that situation. We hope to remedy in the future, but they, in talking with the Cranes, they were not under the understanding. I understand they signed the plat.
 They were not under the understanding that they were Encumbering that property in perpetuity to the city that they thought that was the tree preservation that they had to meet For the for that project be that as it may here We are they have we we feel and they feel like like we've gone through every iteration we can to try and meet the city's requirement and
 And I think it's important to note that, you know, that I know we're not supposed to talk about tax revenue and that sort of thing, but these type of businesses bring in about $50,000 a month in tax revenue to the city.
 we're not asking for not requesting any special consideration cranes have gone above and beyond what the ordinance requires for mitigation uh... at one-and-a-half times the rate that the ordinance specifies so uh... the thirty nine trees that were requesting uh... to plant uh... we've uh... i've got a an email here from david tate the physical plan director for favo public schools and
 Steve Jansky, the athletic director, is here and can confirm that the Fayetteville Public Schools are more than willing to take all 75 or 76 trees that we're proposing to give to the city in lieu of this 5,300 square feet of existing canopy. In addition to that, they'll reset the clock
 on the three year bond of the trees that were planted originally, the 36 mitigation trees. So when those get replanted, they'll be bonded for again for another three years, or I should say that the bond started back in June, so it'll renew again new for three years. I think it's important to note as well the community involvement that Crane
 has in not only Northwest Arkansas, but Fayetteville in particular, a $300,000 donation to build the press box at the high school, hundreds of thousands of other dollars for youth sports and community events and events.
 I just I think this is a small price a small There are some nice trees there. I don't dispute that but I Think they've gone above and beyond what the intent of the ordinance is okay? Now what questions does counsel have for? Mr.. Hanley are our Eric can I ask a question? Can you speak to the the the
 If this is approved the actual building itself the actual dealership itself is that something that you have insight into where I'm going with this is the super known Subaru which is right up the road went to great lengths to build a very environmentally sound model sort of in my opinion for for building of that and I thought that was very impressive and I was just curious on if you can speak to those plans of the actual facility itself.
 It's my understanding, and we've got a representative here from the contractor that has worked with him on previous ones. There are certain architectural plans that are approved for Volkswagen dealerships. Volkswagen has a very hands-on approach with a certain number of dealerships.
 almost not a design build, but a site adapt, where the same type facility is built on different locations. I can't speak to the Subaru dealership. Subaru franchises may have a much more liberal approach to what each individual franchisee is allowed to do. Volkswagen's not that way.
 One of the reasons I ask that is because I've worked with Volkswagen from a corporate perspective and been to Germany many times and met there. I know they're very strict on— They have rules. They have very strict rules to both their vendor partners and also to their dealerships around the world. Right.
 And I've always found them to be environmentally friendly, community oriented. They take that seriously on giving someone a dealership. They take that into consideration. But I know it's hard to describe what this is, but I was just seeing if we could get any specifics, which I understand that we can't. But my knowledge of them is you can't just throw up.
 you know, a big box store type thing. I mean, there are some requirements and they're a very good company. So I appreciate that. I have a question. I think John, didn't you have your hand up? Did not. Okay. You and then Sarah. So what's the primary objective of Volkswagen that's driving this request? Is it simply the number of vehicles you need to have on display?
 The number of, not necessarily on display, but in inventory on site. I guess technically that's display, but they consider display out along the right-of-way and that sort of thing that are visible to a drive-by. The inventory that's on site is really what's driving the issue.
 So my next question is, all your parking lot lane widths and stuff, did you develop those according to the standards we have on our books? Not all of them. There's a number of double park that do not have their double stacked parking spaces, which are actually what's in the area that we're asking to be vacated in.
 where there is no dry bile in between there. They're backed up for, and they're only moved by employees of the car dealership. So to answer your question, no, we have not complied with every standard parking lot design in the areas where the inventory will be stored.
 So the reason I ask, I'm skeptical to grant this particular request with my vote because I think, despite what you said, the Crain's should have understood that granting an easement is a pretty permanent deal. But I would be...
 I might even say eager to grant any kind of request that might reduce some of the geometries that are required on our own codes and the parking lot standards that you can make your parking lot more compact and maybe avoid the tree preservation issue entirely.
 Sarah. What is Kraft and Toll's role on this project? Are you the architect or engineer or both? We are just the engineer. Okay, but so then you would be aware if this project was seeking LEED certification. Is it and if so, at what level? I do not know if it's seeking LEED certification. No, ma'am. Okay, so then that's not included in your contract.
 Correct. So it's a . Well, I say that it's not included in our contract. If there is LEED certification associated with this, it's normally applied for by the architect and we would be requested to find LEED points to attribute to that total score. As of yet, we've not been asked that.
 Okay, yeah, because the site planning would play a large role in that so I think it's safe to assume that it's there's no Certification plan Tom what is your last name? Hennelly Keller Hennelly mr. Headley. Let me express my Disappointment that you have to appear before my City Council to discuss how many trees you get a plant or not plant I have strong respect for Volkswagen and
 I have strong respect for every business decision that's made in this city. And every businessman and every businesswoman understands they have to have an eye toward the community and the community standards. And if they do something that offends the community, they will pay for that with their business sales. If I opened up a business that says, I hate this group or I hate that group, I can be assured that that group will not do business with me. If I do something that offends a particular group,
 environmentally friendly groups or the set of the other groups so I very much respect your willingness to come before this council and pitch your case you have my vote. Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Thanks Mr. Henry. Mr. Mayor, Peter Tonneson. I would just be inclined in the area of trees to defer to the city's expert. Trees in one place aren't the same as trees in the other place and
 and I am, if I'm not mistaken, Volkswagen's headquarters is where they concocted this whole scheme to cheat the emissions standards
 on vehicles being sold in the United States, I mean, they're probably gonna have, end up with people going to prison, and I don't really care about their corporate needs or decisions that are made in Germany. I used to have great respect for Germans and German products, but right now I don't. And I don't think we should do, I don't know why they can't store excess cars somewhere else, but if the forester said the trees should be there and they agreed the trees should be there, then those trees should be there.
 Okay, thank you Peter. Who else would like to address this? Sure. Mr. Mayor, Councilman, I'm the Executive Manager for the Fayetteville location and I can tell you coming to Fayetteville was different for us to build. Trying to learn the tree requirements, trying to respect the beautiful location that we're so lucky to wake up in every day and we want to be a part of the community.
 We support Fayetteville 100% through community. We try to find a way to help with public schools, give trees to places that really need more trees. We don't need more trees over in that area. We're trying to build state-of-the-art facilities, and that's what we're doing. And I promise you they are above standards even to Subaru. They're very...
 Very beautiful to look at. I think all our customers would tell you the same when you walk in our stores, and there's something there to look at instead of a bunch of tractors or a bunch of stuff just laying on the side of the road. We keep up with our community. We have people living in trees beside our dealership. We do stuff that the city sometimes fails to do. We mow. We keep everything beautiful. You know, you like to say you want to keep Fayetteville funky, right?
 We try to keep it beautiful. We try to keep it, when you pass by our dealership, you won't see balloons up in the air. You won't see anything that's tacky. We own the property beside it. We own the property. We're putting Volkswagen on right now. And all we want to do is do the right thing. We're not trying to take away trees. We're just trying to build two businesses and make them look beautiful and take care of the community at the same time.
 Thank you. Thank you. Yes, Al. I have a question. First, I didn't catch your name, then I have a real question. My name is James Morgan. Thank you. I see a letter in the packet that said that your business offered to plant 1.5 times the mitigation trees required by the UDC. That's correct. Is that still accurate? Can we actually require that?
 We offered to do that the cranes offered to do that because they understood that They have bills first and foremost task is to preserve canopy. So they felt like they'd ended to go above and beyond They are willing to go up that they've agreed to go up to two times the number of trees required for that that amount of Canopy if that's what it takes to get them to be allowed to get that dealership on there like I said, we
 I think we've run all the traps. Different approaches to try and get around having to get into this canopy, and we just can't find another way to do it. Thank you. Yes? To your keep Fayetteville funky comment, let me just comment. When push comes to shove, I'll take free over funky any old day. Yeah. Leave me free. Yeah, absolutely. Again, everything we've done is to...
 is to take care of the city and our community. That's what we think about first and know that from the Crane family. It's four generations of Crane family. It's a family-owned business, and it's four generations of University of Arkansas families. So we're here to stay, and we're only building more. So hopefully we can keep on building and keep on building relationships with the community because that's what we look forward to.
 Thank you. Can I ask one question? Are you planning, I think your proposals, all the mitigation trees will be off-site so you're not going to have any mitigation trees on-site? Did I understand that correctly? We intend on planting every mitigation tree we can on-site. We know that we cannot plant 76 trees on that site with
 Everything out the street trees the parking trees and all the other landscape requirements anything we can't fit on site We what we'd like to do and we've already got an agreement with Fayetteville public schools To plant them with their direction on campuses that are as close to this as we can get There's there's two campuses. I know that are within a mile and a half of the site and It's based on the
 Avial public schools needs is what are you are you preserving any of the existing we are there? They're still remaining Preserved canopy on this property. There's there's just an outcropping of 5,300 feet that we cannot work around the remainder of the of the preserved canopy We we fully intend on leaving it nothing will be done to it It's just that tip and how much how much is that the existing that you're gonna be able to maintain I?
 Derek, do you remember what the total area of the preservation area is? When he's looking for that, I think I have to...
 inform you as well as inform the City Council that we have to follow our own ordinances and our ordinances allow off-site mitigation on property that you own and with the consent of the Parks Department in a park it does not allow you to use school property in order to plant mitigation trees as the ordinance reads right now and
 So that is one fly and the ointment here. Of course if you had if you owned other property then you can sometimes Maintain an existing forest there if you if you own some property that had a forest on it If you had a property it didn't have a trees on it You would be able that you own and you'd be able to plant trees mitigation trees there if if it's determined that a
 preservation is impossible here but one option is not plan them on somebody else's property like the school district that is not something that is currently allowed in the ordinance and so unfortunately for your proposal that's just not feasible at this point in time because that can't be accomplished to satisfy your your tree preservation requirements and did you ever find out the amount of
 existing canopy that can be still preserved if this part is lost? Maybe I'm reading this wrong. They preserved approximately 0.84 acres total, which comes out to just under 40,000 square feet. So they would be subtracting that 53,000, excuse me, 5,300 from the 30, between 36 and 40.
 so they are preserving most of the tree canopy that had been reserved but not the 5300 is what you're saying the the the request is a is a is a smaller portion of the of the total um and in fact um allison if you might scroll back a couple of slides actually go to the go back the other way
 Okay, that's a good graphic. So in the southern portion, this whole area here that's highlighted in the gray and then also over to the west where signatures are on the easement plot is the greater 11,
 acre area of lots 13 through 19 and the small portion of the forest that they preserved with the 2014 conditions of approval at Planning Commission is the small gray hatched area down there plus the red and the red is the portion that they're coming back here about a year later and asking to vacate
 Okay, and is that all remaining trees that were existing on this property? So the request, it would, the red part is mature existing forest, and then just to the north of it, where another portion of their proposed infrastructure would go, is where the displaced mitigation, currently planted mitigation trees are. They're just to the north of the red part.
 Okay, I guess the City Council needs to know that there is another option if someone can't meet any of the first requirements like planting mitigation trees on-site or off-site or having reforestation some other place on their own property.
 The only other option to that is not planning on school property, but paying into the tree escrow account where Then it'll be up to the city at that point in time To try to locate good places to plant these a lot of times street trees and things like that Trek me if I'm wrong What our urban forester is the official interpreter of the tree ordinance? but I think that that is an option that is the fifth option the last option we would rather preserve trees or have mitigation trees and
 But that is the fifth option that is currently allowed, and that option would work where your option of planning on school property would not be allowed. Is that correct? He's nodding, not saying anything. So they could pay into the tree escrow account. Mayor? Just a minute, John. Correct? Correct.
 You as as city council these requests for vacation or modification of existing tree preservation areas come directly to you for your consideration through staff recommendation and so that's what. As a renforcer I've brought forward to you today for your consideration and it's really up to the applicant to convince you guys.
 It's up to them to prove to you as city council that their proposal's in the best interest of the city of Fayetteville. The trees that would be displaced, the 39 existing mitigation trees, those must be planted on either onsite, which sounds like cannot be accomplished, or on other lands that they own,
 they could exercise some of the other options. Regarding the 5,300 square feet that is again in the red hatched area,
 It's up to you as a body to decide what you feel is appropriate and how they might meet it. They've suggested initially that they would plant the typical requirement times 1.5, and now we've heard verbally today perhaps they would ramp that up higher than that. So it's up to you to determine if you feel like, based on what you've heard tonight,
 You want to support vacation of what was recently plotted in 2014 or not, and if you do, then what you feel is an appropriate replacement for that loss. So you do not recommend that they be allowed to pay into the tree escrow fund? You would prefer to save the trees, correct? Yes.
 I think it's great that we have a variety of options in Chapter 167, and that is an option that I think is great that we have. In some cases, they actually exercised—
 that option in 2014 to receive their planning commission approval. They've preserved, they've mitigated, and they've exercised that escrow payment. The burden on city staff and city time is that we have to then take that money and within seven years, we have to coordinate on city staff time places and planting plans on where we can make that happen. So in staff's opinion, we would
 We would like to see the private property owner here take care of these private property matters on private property. Okay. So, I think I got that. John. So, Mr. Headley, the cranes probably are indifferent whether they plant them on public school grounds or in our parks. I'm sure the public schools will be heartbroken, but, I mean, surely the cranes would be willing to plant them in our parks. Yes.
 it would be willing to plant them anywhere that the city has a need we've we've had a discussion with the parks department at the time there was not a need that they had for trees i don't know whether there's an option to put some sort of time on that that these trees over a period of time can be whether it's in a regional park there's got to be some place in the city of fayetteville that needs trees
 So you mentioned that they would possibly maybe go up to 2 X is the number so with that number be 39 times 2 is that at the end of the day if they wanted to pay into the fund we would value the tree and then multiply that by.
 We have a standard value or cost for us to plant and maintain a tree for three years. We actually surveyed the market to find out what it would cost to hire somebody. We actually did hire a company to do that in order to come up with that amount for how much it actually costs to do that, and that's now in the ordinance. So it would be a poor tree.
 I think that the 39, and correct me if I'm wrong, is actually one and a half of what they would have to do. That's already one and a half. I think that's already one and a half. If they were to plant only a one-for-one, it would be 24 trees. If they were to plant, then you can take that number 24 and multiply by 1.5 or by two. So at two, we're looking at 48. At 1.5, the number was 36. What cost? What are we valuing here?
 Oh, the escrow value of that? Yeah. Sure. That's $32,400. For a tree? Total. Total. Thank you. Expensive trees, John. Yeah. Well, let me just finish real quick, Mayor, if I can. We've got Alan and then... So I want to do all we can to let this facility be built.
 I drive on Morbilly Lane almost every day in Bentonville, Arkansas, and I drive by the BMW dealership. I drive by the Cadillac dealership that used to be in Fayetteville. I drive by the Mercedes-Benz dealership that used to be in Fayetteville. And now they're about to open one of the largest Chrysler Jeep dealerships in the entire state. And when I say they, I mean Bentonville because we're in competition with them. And in this particular case, we have one of the greatest Subaru dealerships.
 anywhere in the world right up the road the hyundai dealership is a good one as well a volkswagen dealership i have no doubt will be just as successful to our community so i certainly don't want to let 24 trees stand in the way of this happening especially if the cranes are more than willing to give this city
 either twice the amount of trees or twice the amount of money that it would cost to put these in other places and i agree with you sir there's got to be a place that these trees are needed in the city of fayetteville so my last but my question to kit originally was if if we ask them to to to go to 2x whatever that number or value is does that have to be rewritten somehow i mean we can't
 Can we vote on this tonight or do we have to wait until that gets rewritten so that it's in writing and we know we're actually voting on? We can actually amend the resolution. I would, they have offered to do twice the amount but I would ask their local representative, not just their engineer, if you would come up. As you've heard me say at this point in time, planning them in the schools is not an option that the City Council can consider under the ordinance.
 Planning in the parks would be an option, but that requires the agreement of the parks Department and they have not decided they don't believe there is a need at this point in time So the only true legal option I think that we have would be for you to pay into the tree escrow account Which you partially did the first time yes, and the question we have alderman tenant is
 Does your offer to plant twice the number of trees, does that mean also you're offering to pay twice what you would normally have to pay into the tree escrow account if they're willing to vacate this tree part of a portion of the tree easement that you already dedicated? Absolutely. Yes, sir. With their consent on that, then I think we could, in fact, do that, and I could draft the ordinance to such an extent, the resolution that would reflect that.
 Okay. Thank you very much, Kit. Mayor. Allen, I believe you had a question and then who? Sarah and I both. So I actually have a question for Connie if I could ask Connie a question from the Parks Department. I'm sorry. I didn't hear you. Do you mind if I ask Connie a question? Sure. Absolutely. Hi, Connie. So Bryce Davis Park in Ward 4. I've noticed that there's not a lot of trees lining the park.
 Is there not a need, or could we use trees there? I think that that's something that could really add a lot aesthetically to the neighborhood and provide more tree canopy for that area. Yes, we were looking at an area closer to the dealership to replace that canopy, and that's why we said really in our parks in that vicinity there was not an area. But Bryce Davis, I'm certain that we can put more trees.
 more trees in that park. I know if you just go just south on Shiloh, close to the Porter Road exit, through the back way, there's a little old trail that kind of goes right over by Bryce Davis, not too far from it. So it's really not that far away. But it could really use the trees, I think. It would. The City Council has, of course, given the Parks and Recreation Director the power on this, but if she,
 I think that when the City Council did pass the change that allowed them to be planted in the parks, it did say a nearby park. It's a relative term and it sounds like your Ward 4, at least one of your Ward 4 representatives would not object to having a development in Ward 4. Make it two.
 actually donate some of the trees to Bryce Davis. Now, I will say this. If we're going to go this way, then I think we can't decide this tonight. Right. I agree. I agree. Because Connie and her staff will need to look at Bryce Davis, see where and how many potential trees were there, work with their engineer and look at that. And so I would suggest...
 and if it's possible that we would go ahead and table this to the next meeting to give you a chance to work with city staff, especially parks director to see if there are locations in Bryce Davis Park where this could happen and then also work out the details for the,
 the amount of trees that might need to be instead paid for into the tree escrow fund, which will, the tree escrow fund says that trees will be planted near where the development has occurred that could not save enough trees. And so we could at least have a portion of the trees planted near the dealership, hopefully, so that the trees will be replaced in that general area. So let me, is that all right with the crane dealership?
 Yes, sir. That'd be fine. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Let's start with the Dillon and Sarah. Okay, Sarah. I'm sorry. I've been trying to talk for a while. Go ahead, Sarah. Okay. So I'm looking at this plan, and Derek, correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm seeing that this is...
 They're anticipating removing numerous hardwood trees, including a 30-inch oak, a 24-inch oak, several greater than 20-inch oaks, and a 14-inch persimmon. Is that correct?
 thinking back in fayetteville history if we were to take the long view and does anyone remember wilson springs my mother was arrested in that tree set and that was where a lot of this sentiment about saving trees came from and it was the citizens upset about replacing old growth trees large stands of urban forest with parking lots
 Okay, and here what we have is a large expanse of parking lot. These generate incredible amounts of stormwater runoff. They exacerbate urban heat island effects.
 You'll also run into issues with violations of night sky ordinances and such with the large lights that they have here. We've seen no planning. I see no indication for any kind of low impact development scenarios. There's no lead work under contract with the dealership, so I don't see any emphasis on environmental sustainability from that perspective. What I see is the city council actually considering selling off all these buildings.
 beautiful urban forest to put in a parking lot. Meanwhile, our urban forester is saying, recommending that we don't do this. So that's our staff expert recommendation. The parks department is saying, no, we really don't have a serious need for these trees. And then even at the two times rate, say they pay us the $32,000 or whatever, what is the value of the ecological services that these trees provide?
 I think about how much money we spend treating with water, dealing with watershed issues, dealing with sedimentation in the watershed, and all the things that these type of site plans exacerbate. And I don't think that $32,000 even begins to cover the stormwater impacts of that, much less the wildlife impacts of that.
 And, you know, you use the example of, okay, well, all these car dealerships are going to Bentonville. Well, I remember when all these car dealerships were along North College. And now you look at what remains, and it's not a healthy economic environment. It's not a healthy environment for people. It's not a good environment for business. What we end up with is a lot of parking lot, you know, when the next big car lot opens.
 development happens wherever along whatever the new road is of the decade. So I just, you know, these trees have been here
 for who knows, maybe 100 years. I just don't think that replacing them with a parking lot, I don't think that that's what these workarounds for our ordinance were designed to do. You know, I think if we're going to excuse people from the tree ordinance requirement, it has to be for a reason that would provide an exceptional amount of community benefit. You know, if we were building some infill housing for affordable workforce housing or something,
 But this is just a car lot on the side of the interstate.
 I don't see it creating any sort of value beyond just the immediate financial value. I don't think this is a good deal for our community. I don't think that this is what our citizens had in mind when they advocated for these tree protection ordinances. And I think if we look at our history and how divisive it's been every time we've cut down large swaths of trees to build parking lots, I think this is a really bad move for our community to approve this. So I'm going to be voting against it.
 Okay, yes, Adele. Thank you all so much for coming. I appreciate Crofton Tull and also Crane, and I've been so excited ever since I learned that Crane was coming to Fayetteville.
 So I'm giving you my 100% devotion that I'll do anything I can to help you all get to build this lovely place that's going to bring in, did I hear, $50,000 a month? That would build a lot of low impact. I mean, we could do whatever we wanted to as a city with that $50,000. Right.
 So I don't think, you know, this, I think a lot of what I'm hearing tonight is the reason we have a reputation that it's hard to do business in Fayetteville. And it's frankly very embarrassing to me. It's very embarrassing that we have a person standing here who's willing to do anything and we're quibbling about whether or not we're going to let them build in our city.
 I think it's, you know, I want us to keep our city beautiful, and I want us to have gorgeous trees. I love our trees. You all know how much I wanted those trees on 265, and I got them. But, folks, we have to be reasonable. This is just ridiculous that we would even—
 make these folks feel like this, that they just have to keep on and keep on and keep on. Well, oh well, we'll do one and a half trees, well how about two times the trees?
 I'm just, you know, I would like to change the ordinance, frankly, to where the city council has a little more say in where the trees are planted. You know, I think it would be wonderful for the schools to get the trees. Fayetteville High School, big beautiful building, needs trees.
 So I would like, you know, and I plan to take some initiative in changing the ordinance to give the council a little more say-so in what happens to the trees.
 And so far as the mitigation, I think that we should give them, if they want to say we'll plant the trees someplace else, we could give them a certain amount of time, seven, ten years, whatever we think is appropriate. I think I've seen Mr. Crofton-Tull already saying that that would be an option. Okay.
 I will, I'll be working to do whatever I can and I hope that if we table this it will not hold you all back from progressing and we'll work on it. Thank you so much for coming and for being patient on working with us. Thank you, ma'am. The one thing I do want to throw out when we keep using the word it's just a dealership. It's a lot more than that to us. It's our business.
 And it's our way of giving back. You know, when we provide $110,000 a month worth of taxes, not including county, and we also provide to our community and our schools, it's not just a dealership on the side of the road. And sometimes it's offensive to hear it, but it's our business. And we're good at it. We make them beautiful.
 So thank you for your time. Thank you. That phone ringing earlier, I think that was the other cities near us hoping that we wouldn't let you build this so that you could build it there. And one thing I want to say real quick is that just because somebody leaves, it sounded like a minute ago, Alderman Marsh mentioned that when...
 some of our North College dealerships leave then it just gets replaced by another dealership or a bad building and that is the case and I'm all for redoing North College and and I've talked about it and we've all talked about it but when the Mercedes-Benz dealership left as troublesome as that was we now have the Whole Foods shopping center going in which I continue to hear over and over and over and over and over I can't believe you kept Whole Foods.
 from going to bentonville and rogers and springdale so sometimes good things happen in those in those uh parking lots so um 20 24 trees whatever it is if we can get 48 or 50 or a million more trees i agree with adela we should start looking at changing that ordinance so that we can allow our public schools whether we have to work with our school board or whomever because i know a couple of elementary schools because i go to them frequently
 owl creek and some of these that could use more trees in their playgrounds some of these playgrounds have no trees and it's to me it's kind of sad and i would support adela and certainly would like to work with you to maybe change some of that because the fact that we can't give them to our public schools and that's that's our children that play in those schools and i mean
 If we can't give trees to them, then that's a problem. So I appreciate Adele saying that. Thank you. I'm sorry, Mark, you had your hand up.
 As I hear the discussion, I can't help but feel a little bit of anguish that we're diminishing the value of a well-established tree preservation plan that we have in place and that is well defined in the ordinance of Fayetteville. I also think that it is the desire of City Council to work developing a compromise and a plan so that we can move forward with Crane because we do want the business here.
 I would like to see this tabled so that we can have more discussion. We have a lack of detail in the information that has been provided with us in the packet tonight, so we're making a lot of guesses. We're making a lot of assumptions. We're making a lot of what-ifs. This is not the place to do it in a...
 Council meeting where we have such a lack of information. We do have a heritage of tree preservation in Fayetteville. Everyone knows it. And so, and this plan has already been through the process and it was reviewed and I'm sorry that there was some misunderstanding as it was developed.
 that we still have the opportunity to move forward with a compromise that i think that is more palatable than just saying well just go ahead so what i would suggest is that we table this we allow the city staff and we allow the develop the development team to work together and have a very comprehensive and more detailed plan so that we know exactly what we're getting into
 There's nothing I would like more than be able to take my little VW to be serviced at a local dealership. You know, it's a 92, it's old, but I value it. It only has 70,000 miles. But, on the other hand, I know the value and the heritage that I place on the hard work of our city council and the administrations preceding us in developing a tree preservation plan
 that they thought was the best that we could have to protect what we have in Fayetteville. There's a lot that we have at stake in Fayetteville, and one is the topography. And I think Sarah and I come from one point of view where we do see a lot of
 damage to our water table if we don't have a well-defined runoff plans, storm water runoff plan, and that's not what we have here. In fact, there's not anything in front of us to help me feel confident that we're managing what's being the capacity of the drainage of a solidly paved area.
 So, with all due respect, what I would like, I really think that we have the integrity and we have the authority of city council and the integrity with your development team to move forward with the compromise and come back in a couple of weeks with a plan that respects the intent of our tree preservation ordinance more.
 And at that point, I would certainly be inclined to wholeheartedly support a well-defined plan where we knew exactly what we were getting into. And I know that's extra work, and I know that's tough, but we have a tough topography. We're dealing with water issues here that no place north of us deal with.
 We're dealing with a sediment issue that is putting us in a precarious position with the ADEQ and the EPA, and there's no other way to look at it unless you have seen the water studies and the data that we see every month presented to us at the Water Sewer Committee. We can't afford to diminish the quality of our water that's running off into these areas
 streams and eventually we're having to pay to deal with. So that's my concern when I'm looking at this is just strictly we don't have the detail. We don't have the detail to make an adequate decision this evening. So please know I would love to have your business here. I think that we have the staff, you have the engineering capacity, you have the vision. We need your business. I need my car serviced.
 right and so it's not at all saying that we don't respect your intent but we also need to have mutual respect of the heritage and the tree ordinance as it's put in place and the intent that was put in the code in order to manage issues associated with the tree canopy it's not just about beautification it's so much more than that so with your
 with your vision and with your commitment to our community, I hope that you would agree that we could come up with a plan that would be a compromise so that we could meet more of the intent of what we expect in the tree mitigation code that's outlined currently with the City of Fayetteville. It's not anti-business, it's so much more than that. It is so much more than that. So that's my view and I just needed to,
 express my hope that we could come up with a detailed plan with a valiant compromise that everyone could see the value of in the long run. Okay. Matthew and then Alan. Have you proposed to staff or Volkswagen that you reduce the parking lot geometries by marginal amounts? Would you repeat that, please? Have you proposed to either staff or Volkswagen or both that you reduce some of the parking lot geometries by marginal amounts?
 Play the game of inches.
 Absolutely. Absolutely. If we're given latitude, narrow driving aisles and that sort of thing, we still have fire department and fire access and that sort of thing to comply with, but if we're given latitude to do that, absolutely. I'm so pleased to hear that. I can't tell you how pleased I am to hear that. I am too. Derek, I want to put you on deck because I'm going to ask you a question in a second and give you time to prepare it. If you could give me a number when I ask of what their cost to rebond all these trees would be.
 So, you know, I've been trying to quietly listen to what everybody's been saying tonight. And you know, I think this is one of those times where reasonable people can disagree on either side of the issue. And what I want to the point I want to make with my comments is that this is not
 we need to reframe the way this entire discussion has gone. Because talking about this project, this proposal, as either being remove these trees and plant them elsewhere or kill the project is false. It's a false choice for us in front of the council tonight. It's not correct at all because there are other parameters at play that
 aren't being discussed. Could we bring up slide 9 of 16 in our staff report? If you're on different pages, it's the one that shows... I think it's after this one. It's the one that shows their site plan with the red highlighted area. It's a troop reservation. Anyway, I don't need it right away, but...
 There's a couple things. First, I want to point out that you've heard from a majority of the council tonight that everybody wants to do what we can to make sure you guys get to do the project. So I want you to take that on good faith. I think we're going to table it tonight. I'm going to vote to table it if the motion gets made by me or somebody else.
 So you take it on good faith that we want to do what we can. And what I want to talk about now, because that's the one I wanted, is how we might do that without calling any of the trees into question. If we look across that site from left to right, okay, there are at least five complete rows.
 parking lanes, the lanes that you would drive in. There's probably like five and a half if you want to get technical, but we'll just say five. Those are 24 feet wide each per our own parking lot design guidelines. Okay, this is a code on our book that they have designed to. So 24 feet wide each one of those. Each of the stalls is 19 feet deep. Okay, it's nine feet wide and 19 feet deep. That's also per our own parking lot design guidelines. Okay, now most
 vehicles can fit in a space that is smaller than that, the vast majority of vehicles. You know, the only exception might be some of Volkswagen's commercial vehicle offerings, certainly not their consumer vehicle offering. And furthermore, on the lanes, 24 feet is more than sufficient for the vast majority of passenger vehicles that are going to be sold on this site.
 So there's a lot of room in theory to work with, and I think we've really created this condition for ourselves by virtue of our own codes. And I think, you know, if anything, no matter how this conversation goes, this should be an indictment. It might be too strong of a word, but I've used it before, an indictment of how strict some of our own standards are because it's created this condition for ourselves. So if we accept the premise that there are five codes
 parking lanes, lanes that you would drive in that could be reduced from 24 feet to some number. I'll say, um,
 by two feet to 22 feet that gets us 10 feet to play with and if we accept the premise that those 19 feet deep stalls can be reduced from 19 feet by 9 inches or 12 inches not more than 12 inches and we come up with another nine feet and so we've moved that lane that that bay of parking stalls on the far left-hand side where the pink is all the way out of the zone if we do that
 And all it takes is for Kraft and Toll to put together the design that shifts everything by these inches from one side of the site to another for them to come back to us in two weeks and ask us if it's okay. And we can say yes.
 and we don't have a tree preservation issue, and they don't have an issue on the number of vehicles they can store on the site, assuming Volkswagen doesn't care about 6 to 12 inches here or there, and we don't care about 6 to 12 inches here or there. So I want to encourage you when we table this that you bring forward that solution. If we're able to, we're more than happy to do that. And, you know, as tempting as it is, I mean—
 it is so tempting to raid a project for twice as many trees as would normally be required, right? I mean, we can think of parks all over the city where we could do amazing things with even 25 or 50 trees like what we're talking about here. But you know, I hate this kind of Friday night lights approach to talking about cities that we should be cooperating with to do things. But you know what? If we're going to do that,
 It wasn't more than three months ago that Bentonville planted 1,000 trees in a day, and they did it with donations and volunteers and voluntary stewardships for those plantings. 1,000 trees in a day, and we're here talking about how to rate a project for less than 50 trees when there's another solution that's on the table ready for us if we only have the creative energy to accept it. So, you know, I don't want...
 This idea that we should find a new way to compromise, I think, is the wrong way to talk about this. We should find a new way to design and plan projects like this from the very beginning because this shouldn't even be a conversation we're having right now. Parking lot should already be designed in a way that we should allow by right that parking lot to be designed in a way that would have avoided this issue. So please take what you've heard tonight that we want to find a way to work with you in good faith.
 You know, make every effort you can to bring forward a plan like what I've described that avoids this issue in its entirety. It'll save you tens of thousands of dollars, save your client tens of thousands of dollars if you can do it, and it'll save everybody up here the headache and the heartache of trying to make a decision on this particular issue. It's also important to understand, just Alderman Kenyon, your comments gave me the impression that
 That you thought that we had brought this through large-scale already and we haven't that this is purely a conceptual plat We still have to meet all water quality standards the city or we don't have them. That's what I'm saying We don't have that in front of us. I
 Right. I know that, and I'm just stating we don't have it. Right. If we're given the latitude to reduce the geometry of the parking lot, absolutely. We'll do everything we can to minimize that or eliminate it. Mr. Hanley, at large scale, you could also ask for the variance that was suggested by Alderman Petty for the length of the stalls and the width of the drive aisles. I'm sure you've done that many times in the past with previous projects that you've had, but you just haven't been through large scale yet.
 Correct. And the fire department is normally the largest obstacle, but I think there are opportunities to leave the aisles around the building the way they need to be for fire access and everything else can be compressed. And we're happy to do that, absolutely.
 Well, I agree with a lot of what Matthew just said. I agree with a lot of what Adela said too, and I think that there's somewhere in the middle. One thing for staff, I'd like to see a map, a topographical map, maybe a satellite image map on the next time we look at this if it's tabled. Usually when we look at rezoning some things, we have those in the packet and there's nothing. I was able to pull it up on my phone, but I'd like to have that in the packet as well.
 Another thing is if we do have to go mitigation for even a portion of the trees, something that Sarah had suggested a while back when we redid our ordinances is not only that we can use public parks to mitigate, but we can use public property.
 in another area similar to that. I know there's gonna be some medians put in, in that general area. Maybe we could use some of those trees there. So I think there are other solutions as well. I just hope we work to find them because similar to what Adela said earlier, I think that having this conversation is just almost embarrassing to this extent. Okay. Yes, Adela.
 Just for clarification to our city attorney, so we can ask for variance on things like the lots but we can't on the trees? No, the request is a variance for the trees right now. Right, but we can't do it unless we change the ordinance, is that my understanding? No, that's not correct.
 There could be a payment into the tree escrow account, which is certainly allowed as one of the five options. Right, but I was just thinking, I think the idea of the trees at the schools is such a great idea, and that's the reason I would like to change the ordinance to give the city council
 the leeway to grant a variance, essentially. The City Council certainly has, you're the ones that enact the code, you know, so that the code is what you say it is, just like when I came forward a few months ago saying we would like the option not only to plant on your own land as was before, but in public parks too, and the City Council agreed and changed the ordinance to make it more broad like that.
 Further changes in the tree ordinance can certainly be had as long as that's what the City Council wants. But we do have to change the ordinance. We can't just say we're going to have a variance like we do with the parking lot? Actually, the City Council is not going to be able to, I think, legally grant a variance to parking lot standards because that is supposed to go to the Planning Department and Planning Commission to grant the variance when large-scale development comes through.
 You can certainly express your intent that it should be granted, and if it's not granted, it can be appealed to you, so that you can then grant it. But I would, in proper form, it would not be proper for you to grant a variance to parking lot drive-outs before the large scale has even been presented for consideration. Obviously, we're looking at trying to get this thing on track and get moving forward, not waste time.
 So I think we want to go forward as fast as we can. At least at the next meeting you can express your intent that the parking lot land requirements be reduced to a more reasonable level. I agree with everything that Alderman Petty said about those particular standards. We also don't know for sure what Volkswagen standards are. And if Volkswagen says the aisles have to be so wide and the spaces have to be so wide, well, then that's a problem too.
 that we're not going to be able to resolve by granting them a variance from our regulations, because it'll be their regulations. So we're not sure about that yet. I'm sure we'll find out very quickly.
 But you know we can resolve this but the City Council must follow its own ordinances Until they are changed. That's why we wanted to put stuff in the park. We couldn't do that We had to come to the City Council said please change the ordinance So some of those trees can be mitigation trees in the park that needs them there and you all granted that so if you want to expand it in other ways you can do that, but we must follow the ordinance until the ordinance has changed and
 And the city, the school property is not considered public property. Well, it's not considered, it's not city property, that's for sure. I thought you said you changed it to say public property. I would have to look at that. I don't know if that's what it says. But we could say school property if we wanted to. Oh, certainly. Certainly. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, Justin. I think we have multiple reasons to table, and I would move to table. Second. It's an outstanding idea. Until the next meeting. Until the next meeting. Two weeks. Two weeks. Everybody good with that? Yes. Okie dokie. All right. We have a motion to second the table. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Lutour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes.
 Well, that went well. All right. Number six, a resolution expressed the City Council's intent to participate in cooperative regional efforts to evaluate the potential cost savings and environmental benefits that may be available to the City of Federal through the formation of a Northwest Arkansas Multi-Jurisdictional Water Quality Compliance Association.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council. Earlier this year, the legislature passed the Nutrient Trading Bill, which is allowing a market-based approach to achieve water quality standards. It provides greater opportunity for point source discharges to save money by allowing one source to meet its regulatory limits by using pollutant reduction from another point source.
 It allows point source discharges to form associations so they can take into account the . To put it in a simple example, if you had a watershed that had 10 point sources, and there were, let's say, 10 wastewater treatment plants, and the pollutant limitation was one, you had one point source that was given a two, the other nine were only doing nine, you would not have enforcement action on that watershed.
 What this proposal is doing is to allow the mayor or his appointed designee to conduct formal meetings with other point source dischargers to see what the benefits are of nitrate trade. Okay. What questions do we have for Tim on this? Yes, Matt. Is Fayetteville currently in a position within the watershed that we would be in a position of leverage in these trading negotiations? No.
 Yes, we would actually Fayville is in two watersheds the Illinois and the White River So we've got opportunities in both watersheds to look The one thing that will be done is the ADQ will form a regulation based on the nutrient trading But Northwest Arkansas wants to have a seat at that table to help develop this regulation Any other questions for Tim?
 Okay, any public comment? I'm sorry. This has been discussed at the water sewer solid waste committee We've talked about the possibility of this in the past and now that it's a reality The benefit that we have just as Tim said is we're dealing with two watersheds and two delicate watersheds that Are in peril so by having a regional approach we can we certainly have the opportunity to
 Broaden the risk of peril that we are faced Where we're located in the watersheds anybody else Do we have any idea who you'd be appointing for that position I
 I mean, is it a staff member, a current staff member, I'm guessing? Probably Tim. Yes, it's usually the utility directors from the other communities. Just making sure we weren't talking about adding a staff member. No, we're not adding that. No, we're going to have nutrient trading staff member. Anything else? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, going to bring it back to the council. Move to pass the resolution. Second.
 have a motion second to pass the resolution sundry any final comments sundry would you please call the rub marsh yes kenyon yes petty yes yes yes long yes great yes
 Okay, number seven. In ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of 12 Tremble Ranger handheld water meter reading devices manufactured by Badger Meters, incorporated from Hennard Utility Products, incorporated in the amount of $51,725, plus applicable taxes for use by the Utilities Department. Okay.
 Whereas the City of Fayetteville uses water meters manufactured by Badger Meters Incorporated and Hennard Utility Products Incorporated is the only authorized Badger Meters product distributor in the state of Arkansas. And whereas standardizing water metering and meter reading equipment is appropriate because it helps ensure minimized inventories, uniform training, compatibility of equipment, and interchangeability of devices.
 Now therefore it be it ordained by the city council the city of fabula arkansas section one
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of 12 Trimble Ranger handheld water meter reading devices manufactured by Badger Meters Incorporated from Hennard Utility Products Incorporated in the amount of $51,725 plus applicable taxes for use by the Utilities Department.
 Thank you, Mayor. I think it pretty much summed it up. We are going into the future with our water meters, and over the past several years, we have been replacing our water meters with meters that have the capability of going to the future with smart metering, automatic metering, where you can do radio read and drive by and catch the reads without reading them, so it's going to be more efficient.
 That's some way off in the future, but by buying these handheld meters with these capabilities, we're working towards that end. It's not feasible to go to the lowest bidder on something like this because we've got to have the compatible frequency of what we're using. Mark Sussman to the Water and Sewer Committee. Yes. We discussed it. We did not have a quorum the day that it was brought.
 forward again this has been discussed and have what we're doing in the future for quite some time and this is the next step of getting efficiency and managing the information that we gather at our water meters and how to handle metering so that's why.
 This is requested. It's totally efficiency, and it should be an efficiency that will be worth the investment and pay for itself in the long run. What questions do we have? None. None? Okay. Any public comment on this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Will we suspend the rules? Second. Motion is seconded to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of 12 Trimble Ranger handheld water meter reading devices manufactured by Badger Meters Incorporated.
 From Hennard Utility Products Incorporated in the amount of $51,725 plus applicable taxes for use by the utilities department. Move we suspend the rules, go to the third and final reading. Motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Yes.
 In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of 12 Trimble Ranger handheld water meter reading devices manufactured by Badger Meters Incorporated from Hennard Utility Products Incorporated in the amount of $51,725 plus applicable taxes for use by the utilities department. Any final comments from the council on this? Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes.
 15-51 to authorize a contract across from heavy contractors incorporated in the amount of $1,725,071.42 for the construction of the Maple Street and Lafayette Street Bridge Rehabilitation Project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $172,507.14 and to approve a budget adjustment. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Mayor.
 This is the very last project to go to contract in the 2006 bond program, the original bond project. We still have some additional projects to go. So it's been since 2006 we've been wanting to move this project forward. In 2011, we secured federal aid funding, a million dollars of federal aid funding, and we've been working since then to get through the federal aid process, get the project approved, and the project bid completed.
 The funding for the project, as I said, includes federal aid funding about $776,000 as the remaining federal aid funding. CIP funds about $476,000 and then the bond program provides about $645,000 in funding. Major items of work to be done on the project include retaining wall repair on Lafayette, the retaining wall adjacent to the bridge that's beginning to rotate.
 Bridge railing repairs on both bridges, cleaning and graffiti protection on both bridges, both underneath and on the superstructure. Concrete deck overlay so that the driving surface will be a new concrete driving surface. And lastly, replacement of the historical lighting in the railings themselves to be restored to match the historical lighting.
 This is a six-month contract. We expect the work to start in the springtime, probably February or March, and it will be completed again six months after that. And we recommend approval of this contract with Crossland Heavy Contractors. Long time coming. What questions do we have for Chris on this? Yes.
 I don't have any questions that is what I am so glad we finally are getting these bridges repair you know when you've been in Fayetteville as long as we have and you've seen these tree these bridges looking like they need repairing I'm just delighted we're getting it done and at a much more reasonable price than our first bid so thank you Chris. Yes thank you Chris. Anybody else have any questions for Chris?
 public comment on this. Except yay. I'm going to bring it back to the council now. I move we pass the resolution. Second. Motion and second to pass the resolution. Any final comments?
 I just want to make a final comment. I was a council member at the time that this came forward on the bond issue. While we think about it being long, I want to remind everyone that this was actually a project that was supposed to be in the third and final stage. You're getting it early, thanks to the mayor pushing it and getting federal funding for
 We also got dollars towards it that were originally going to be paid 100% through the local bond that are now with federal matching bridge dollars. So while it does seem long, you should applaud yourselves. You're actually getting it early and you're getting it cheaper and you're getting it federally funded partially. Okay. Thank you. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Hinnant? Yes.
 Seems so easy now. Anyway, number nine. An ordinance to amend Chapter 177 Landscape Regulations of the Unified Development Code to adopt regulations prohibiting the installation of certain invasive plant species.
 in new developments that require a landscape plan review and approval by the urban forestry division and to make certain technical revisions. Kip. Kip Thorne Whereas on May 5, 2015, the City Council passed Resolution 101-15 requesting the City staff to examine the need and propriety of submitting a proposed ordinance that would regulate or prohibit the sale or use of certain invasive plant species in Fayetteville.
 And where as city staff assembled a team of 13 diverse stakeholders who identified 18 invasive plant species that warrant restrictions based upon the economic environmental harm that they cause. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council, City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council, City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends Section 177.01 purpose
 by adding a new subsection B12 as follows, quote, discouraging the new installation of identified invasive plant species and encouraging the removal of existing invasive plant species. Section 2.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby amends Section 17701 purpose by adding a new subsection C8 as follows. Quote, plants identified as invasive in Section 17709 invasive plant species are prohibited from being installed in all development projects that require a landscape plan review. Unquote. Section 3.
 that the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby amend Section 177.02 by replacing Tree and Landscape Advisory Committee with, quote, Urban Forestry Advisory Board, unquote. And Section 4, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby amend Section 177.03
 landscape plan requirements by adding the words quote combined plan to the beginning of subsection C5 and by adding a new subsection C7H as follows quote plants listed in section 17709 invasive plant species shall not be installed in developments requiring a landscape plan review and section 5
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby adds a new subsection 17709, invasive plant species as set forth in Exhibit A, attached to and made a part hereof. And I believe that there is a proposed amendment to that final Exhibit A, and I'll give it to Peter.
 Thank you, Kit. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. In May, on May 5th of this year, you all passed a resolution requesting that staff examine the need and propriety of preparing an ordinance or policy that would seek to regulate or prohibit certain invasive plant species in the City of Fayetteville. After passage of that resolution, we assembled a stakeholder group of 13 diverse stakeholders
 with diverse backgrounds such as nursery owners and managers, landscape architects and landscape installers, gardeners, academic experts, botanists, naturalists and conservationists, city park managers from our Parks and Recreation staff, and local citizens. The staff held four stakeholder group meetings, and I presented to you at an agenda session presentation on October 13th some of the findings and recommendations from that stakeholder group.
 They documented the need for an invasive plant policy identifying that there are plants plant species in the city of Fayetteville that do create Ecologic harm and are costing taxpayers in the city money in terms of management and removal of those invasive plants the stakeholders reviewed what other communities have done to deal with their invasive plant problems and
 They identified and prioritized 18 plant species in the city of Fayetteville that are creating ecological and environmental harm.
 in our ecosystems. They provided guidance and policy recommendations for staff in developing the invasive plant policy that you have before you tonight. And they reviewed and critiqued the city's staff's developed invasive plant education and outreach materials that is a species based education effort.
 The ordinance that's before you would do a couple of things. It would amend Chapter 177, which is in the Unified Development Code. It's the landscape regulations. And the amendments would prohibit the planting of the 18 identified invasive plants
 on any projects, any development projects that require a landscape plan. Those would include large scale developments, subdivision plans, site improvement plans, and any other types of development that require grading plans with the exception of single family development.
 The ordinance would not limit the sale or purchase of any of these invasive plants at any retailers within the City of Fayetteville. It would not limit the planting of any of those plants by homeowners on their property inside the City of Fayetteville, and it would not require the removal of any of these 18 plants on public or private property inside the City of Fayetteville. In addition to the proposed ordinance amendments,
 We are in parallel developing a species-based educational effort. There are examples of the drafts that we've been preparing in your packet.
 The goal of that education effort is to educate on the negative impacts of invasive plants in our ecosystems, educate residents on how to identify the invasive plants, educate on how to remove those invasive plants, and educate on what appropriate replacement non-invasive species would be for those 18 invasive plants. Over this past weekend, we received some feedback from one of our stakeholders on our invasive species stakeholder group, Stephen Black.
 who is one of the owners at Westwood Garden. He was unable to attend, I believe, the last two of our invasive species stakeholder meetings, and he pointed out that one of the species on our list, Nandina domestica, which has a common name of heavenly bamboo,
 has several cultivars of that species that are considered non-invasive. And bear with me for a moment as I explain what a cultivar is. Cultivars are subspecies or varieties of a particular type of plant that have the same they have the same genus and species name but different characteristics associated with them. So the typical Nandina plant
 produces flowers and berries that help that plant spread. Those berries also happen to be toxic to some birds. There are cultivars of Nandina that don't have flowers or berries, and what Mr. Black was pointing out to us is that those cultivars that don't have berries and flowers ought to be considered non-invasive and excluded from this regulation. So the amended list that I passed out to you, you'll see has an asterisk by Nandina domestica
 and that asterisk reads that cultivars that do not produce flowers or fruit are not considered invasive. And that would essentially allow flexibility for staff to allow cultivars of Nandina domestica to be planted on landscape lands if those cultivars are non-invasive. The amended version I passed out also corrects two spelling errors.
 Our Latin isn't as good as it ought to be in the sustainability department. There was one spelling error on Cerveza lespedeza, another spelling error on Wisteria senesi, and then we also amended the common name for Bradford pear, calling it Calorie slash Bradford pear. Bradford pears and Calorie pears are very similar. They both have the same scientific name, Pyrus caloregiana.
 With that, I'll be glad to take any questions. Alan? Thank you. I'd just like to add, thank you, Peter. I'd like to add that the Environmental Action Committee had a letter sent to the Council on October 20th in support of this. But, Peter, I did notice one thing on the section with the asterisk from cultivars. The handout said cultivars that do not produce flowers or fruit are not considered non-invasive. So should that be, are not considered invasive?
 Thank you very much. I think that is a typo on my part. Yes. So I'd ask you all to amend to this exhibit with that one correction that they're not considered invasive. So moved. Without the non in front of them. My apologies. Thank you, Alan. So moved. Second. Okay. Alright, any discussion on that? Any discussion on the amendment of the name? I can't pronounce.
 What, and you can't even say any of these names? I can't. We would call it Heavenly Bamboo. Any comments from the public on this? Before you take public comment, I would also point out that the Urban Forestry Advisory Board also heard this item on October 14th and recommended that it be afforded to you all. I hear you're just voting on the Exhibit A. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 Any discussion on that? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Okay, John. We're voting on the amendment of Exhibit A. That's right. Correct the name. Correct it. Take out the double negative. Yes, we're taking it. All right. Thank you. You're still good, John. Good. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Right. Yes. Okay. We can strike that one off. Okay. Now we're back to the...
 ordinance itself. What questions do we have in the council? Anything on that? I have one question. On bamboo, I have a question about bamboo, Peter. Sorry. Well, you're back on exhibit A. Yeah, I am. I'll do my best.
 It has a specific species, I'm guessing. Is that all bamboo that would be applied for during a landscape project? I know some people plant them in actual containers in the ground so that they can't spread. Yeah.
 There. That maybe not completely in the ground, but only partially. So you're correct. There are several species of bamboo. This regulation would only relate to the bamboo that has that specific scientific name. Would defer to anyone in the audience that might be able to offer a better explanation. Sure, come on up, Jennifer. I ask that because I know a lot of people do love bamboo in Fayetteville. Yeah, I get a lot of calls from people that don't, too.
 My name is Jennifer Ogle. I'm a botanist here in Fayetteville. That refers, the phylostachys SPP, that refers to more than one species. And so any species in that genus would be prohibited, as they are all considered invasive. And how many...
 Of the bamboo species, if you don't know this, it's okay. How many species of bamboo fall into that genus? I don't know that answer. How many wouldn't, I guess? Are there some that we would still be able to have in Fayetteville planted? No.
 So pretty much all bamboo is out? All of the non-native bamboos, yes. There is one bamboo that is native to Arkansas. It's River Cane, a Rundanaria gigantea. It falls under that classification of bamboo, and you see it everywhere as well. It occurs along riparian areas. That would be an acceptable option.
 If you look on page 19 of your packet, you'll see that river cane is actually the recommended replacement species in our draft educational effort for bamboo. Oh, I'm sorry, Jeff. Yes, you did have your hand up. Peter, I have a question for you. You mentioned in your presentation that this ordinance would not make the sale of an invasive plant illegal, that these prohibitions would not apply to single-family dwelling units.
 Can you give us your personal assurance as long as you're with the city of Fayetteville, you'll not seek to change those? Well, it's the only person who can change it is sitting up here at the board. He can seek to change it. He would be lobbying us to change it. I want his assurance that he will not do that. Well, I can tell you that— Peter, you don't have to answer that question. Thank you, Peter.
 Okay. I'm sorry. I have a question. Yes. It's about bamboo. I know what I'm getting you for Christmas. Thank you. Not this kind. No, I'm just kidding. So can I have a question? Okay, so heavenly bamboo is what is here. That's what I see. That's not the one you're talking about. That's correct. Heavenly bamboo, Andina domestica, is a totally and completely different...
 animal from the cane type of bamboo. So the, I don't know how you spell this, A-R-U-N-D-I, I don't know how you say this, it's spelled A-R-U-N-D-I-N-A-R-I-A, that's the native alternative, and that's river cane, am I correct? Yes. If you've loaded the Buffalo River, you've seen it along the side of the river. Yeah, it looks very similar. Okay, I'm good.
 You'll be gratified to know this will not be a comment about bamboo. I like bamboo. Great. I'll be voting against this, Peter. Your reluctance to answer my question spoke volumes. That tells me we're taking the first step down a road, and that road is leading us somewhere. That's my strong suspicion. If you'd like to answer the question now and allay my suspicions, I'd be glad for you to do so. If you remain silent on the question, I'll be voting no. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 what public comment do we have on this okay i'm going right back to the council oh sorry i'm sue madison i am on the urban forestry advisory board i have a master's degree in botany and i'm a master gardener and a lifelong gardener i would like to talk about this from a dollars and cents point of view the plants many of the plants on that list are extremely aggressive
 They out-compete our native plants, hands down. My husband and I own several rental properties in town, and every time a tenant moves, it's costing us between $200 and $300 to clean out the invasive plants that emerge while the tenants are there, because they don't know a privet from a yaupon.
 And we did not plant any of these things on our property. And that $200 and $300 does not include my labor to identify or to help haul it away or the city help hauling it away. It is a large expense. And if we didn't do that, I assure you those properties would soon be consumed totally by some of these invasive plants. Our church, First United Presbyterian Church in Fayetteville,
 has for three years had an all-day cleanup on church property to remove invasive plants, and we're nowhere near accomplishing that goal. The plants are very aggressive by seeds, by runners. This is really important if we care about our native plants and our native pollinating insects that need those plants. I sincerely hope you'll pass this ordinance for the beauty, the native beauty of our area. Thank you.
 Okay. Yes? I'd just like to add to that. I'm Jennifer Ogo again, same as I was before. To add to what Sue said about it displaces native species, also removing invasive plants adds to the beauty of our region. They also, invasive plants also negatively impact water quality and they inhibit forest regeneration and we're very concerned about forest health.
 Our urban forests and our urban natural areas are very biodiverse, something you might not expect. These are islands of biodiversity because we've taken away a lot of habitat. And so these animals and plants are existing in these islands of natural areas. Wilson Springs Conservation Area is one of them.
 And I just want to mention that there are six tracked species of plants at Wilson Springs. So that means they're rare and we're very concerned about them. Once we do a proper survey of the property, I believe we'll find many more rare plants.
 And also it's home to the Arkansas darter, which is a candidate species for federal protection. Invasive plants are overrunning that property and other urban forest natural areas as well. So I also strongly encourage you to pass this ordinance because of our water quality and our forest health and for the organisms that occur in these natural area islands or urban areas. Anybody else?
 One more quick comment. On the handout I handed out, under the asterisk, does it say cultivars that do not produce flowers or fruit are not considered non-invasive? There's too many negatives in there. That's the problem with that. We took the non out. We took the non part of non-invasive out. If they do not produce flowers or fruit, they are not considered invasive. That's how it reads now. Okay.
 Good evening. My name is Alan Osner. I'm a local landscape architect. I was on the committee that helped the citizen group that helped to craft or helped Peter
 work his way through this as he asked us questions and we responded as professionals and gardeners and homeowners. As a landscape architect, my perspective is that what I'd like to emphasize is that the way the rule is currently being proposed, it's only landscape plans proposed for commercial developments. It does not involve homeowners, really doesn't even involve most nursery sales.
 As a landscape architect, I would estimate, I wish the Westwood people were here. If I had to guess, of the plants sold in this town, I would bet less than 5%, 1% go towards professional, large-scale projects, such as the ones that are being impacted tonight. I think it's a very small part of the ecology in Fayetteville, but it's significant.
 It's significant because a professional landscape architect sets these plans, works with the developer for a commercial project. The landscape architect has a lot of choices for the plants to draw on these plans. Normally we look at the city rules, what plants does the city want? As a landscape architect, these plans are not
 For me, I don't want to speak for other landscape architects, are not the common choice to choose for a developer. A few of them have been used in the past. They're not a common choice. This proposal, this ordinance seems win-win. These plants are not a huge part of the plant palette for landscape architects in commercial developments, and it has nothing to do with the homeowner or the...
 the private citizen who wants to go buy plants. So those are my perspectives. Thank you. Thank you, Alan. Who else would like to address this? Anybody? I'm Kyle Smith. I'm a member of the Environmental Action Committee, and like Alan said, the ordinance did win our endorsement. I'd encourage you to go back and look at the video of that last meeting and see some of the spirited discussion that went on about how this would impact plant sales as well as just...
 people who want to go and install a plant in their install plants new plants in their in their yard versus commercial there was a diverse set of views there as you would expect from a group like that there are people in this city who would like for an ordinance to go farther than this but this is the ordinance in front of you and i encourage you to vote for this ordinance on its own merits and not out of speculation for what might be coming next okay anybody else
 Sue, could I ask you just a question or two, please? What is the title of the committee, city committee of the urban, that you serve on? The Urban Forestry Advisory Board. Yes, ma'am. It meets on the second Wednesdays. Now, you give us a report every year, right? I have been, yes. Every year since I've been in office that I can remember. And every year you tell us that we need to develop something to control the invasive plants. And so...
 Why is that so critically important? It's changing the character of our town, for one thing. I mean, when we first moved here in 79, we came from Louisiana, and I loved seeing the sassafras along the side of the road, the sumacs, pretty colors. Now when you drive down the street in Fayetteville, or the highway department, or sometimes the city transportation has sort of sheared the vegetation along the way,
 The intersection of North Street and Old Wire on the north side of the road comes to mind. It's sheared bush honeysuckle and privet. That's all it is. It's a wall of bush honeysuckle and privet. In my neighborhood, there are similar walls. There are those walls all around town. We have fabulous plants that are native to our area. And what's more important that I've learned from our chairman, Dr. Don Steinkraus,
 is that we have native butterflies and birds that need those plants. The monarch butterfly that is endangered now must feed on our native milkweeds. It nectars on them, it lays eggs on them, and the caterpillars eat them. And that's one of the reasons we're all concerned about the demise of monarchs. Their population is down by 90%. And our native birds need some of these plants
 native plants as food sources. They need to eat these caterpillars that eat the native plants. It is all connected. And these plants that are invasive are native to areas like China or Japan, some in Europe, and they need to be supplying the insects and birds in those areas of the world.
 I love our native plants. We have beautiful, beautiful native plants. Every month at Urban Forestry, a member volunteers to give a program on either a native desirable plant or an undesirable invasive exotic plant. And we've all learned so much from those and we're attempting to put them on the webpage. The plants that were given away at the tree giveaway this year were all native plants.
 A father gilla that is an absolute beautiful, fluffy, bottle brush, kind of a light, creamy flower was one of them. Buttonbush was one. Let's keep what's dear to Fayetteville in our native population, where it isn't threatened by a proliferation of seeds and other propagules from these invasive, exotic plants. I think I didn't end up answering many questions. I think you did just fine. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Move to spend the roll to go to the second reading. Second. Move a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenet. Yes. Latour. No. No.
 Yes. Greg? Yes. In Ordinance to Amend Chapter 177 Landscape Regulations of the Unified Development Code to adopt regulations prohibiting the installation of certain invasive plant species in new developments that require a landscape plan review and approval by the Urban Forestry Division and to make certain technical revisions.
 Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Latour. No. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes.
 In Ordinance to amend Chapter 177, Landscape Regulations of the Unified Development Code, to adopt regulations prohibiting the installation of certain invasive plant species in new developments that require a landscape plan review and approval by the Urban Forestry Division, and to make certain technical revisions. Any final comments from the Council? Yes, sir.
 I just want to say thank you to the task force that helped develop this. This is a very important step, but it's also a small step, and I realize we've got a long way to go if we really are going to get serious about
 minimizing the invasives and I do hope that we go further to address residential I bought a home that the previous owners had implanted a lot of invasive species in my yard it's now creeped down to the creek and it's spreading along the watershed they've infected my neighbors on either sides yard and one of them who just spent
 many, many afternoons pulling all the honeysuckle out, which the honeysuckle is now choking out my native river cane as well. So, you know, it may seem like, oh, this is a cute plant at the nursery, but we really...
 need to educate and Help people understand the implications of what they're they're planting in their yards So I hope this is the first step of many in order to get this under control and have us to have a healthy diversity ecosystem Anybody else? Yes, and and I'll just say I you know, I spent I spent about it was about three weekends ago ripping out a lot of invasive species it took five or six hours and
 Stuff that I didn't plan, stuff my neighbors planted. They didn't live there anymore. I would have asked them to go take it out themselves. But I think this is a good ordinance for where we are right now. I think it's a good starting place.
 I think that eventually to be more effective, we will have to target the transactions where invasive species are sold. Not by saying you can't buy them, but by saying possibly there's a surcharge or a tax for that to help the city remove invasive species in certain locations to help recover some of the damage done by the people who don't want to be conscious
 of the fact that these are not responsible for our environment. I think this is a great place to start, but eventually we will have to go farther as other communities across the United States are doing right now, like they did years ago with Kudzu
 Eventually they realized they can't keep planting it because it takes over so I applaud the staff's work on this the stakeholder groups Everyone that's put time into this I greatly appreciate it everyone who came to speak for it and all the council members who do support it and the administration Thank you, John. Well Peter the City Council has answered the question for you the next step the first step we have to get involved in transactions and
 This is leading right up to manipulation and coercion. I cannot support it. Thank you, counsel, for being honest. Anybody else? John, I want to start off. I do want to apologize. I seem to have been a little bit abrupt with either answering your question. No problem. But I do want everybody to understand the staff works for the mayor, and whatever they bring before you has been cleared by me and worked on by me.
 So I don't want anybody to take it out on Peter for not answering the question because he works for the mayor. And anything that he's bringing forward, he's speaking for this administration. Now, you may not like that. You may not like the decisions I make. But at the end of the day, he couldn't answer that because he doesn't know what he's going to be directed to do by this administration. And that's my job until I no longer hold this seat. And so with that.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Hennant. Yes. Latour. No. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay. What announcements do we have? Yes, Mark. I want to remind everyone that applications are available now for various boards and commissions. We have 20 vacancies, 20 count them.
 And we have 11 boards, commissions, and committees with vacancies on them. So if you're interested in having a voice, please take the opportunity to get your application in by November 25th, which is fast approaching. Just wanted to mention that. Okay. Anybody else? Anything? Yes. Yes.
 I may we have several of them tonight. First one remind all the citizens that next Wednesday. You don't have a council meeting for the November the 11th city will be closed in observance of Veterans Day. So you'll need to plan appropriately if you need to do business with the city next week also want to remind the city council.
 to make sure that your calendars are marked for the 2006 budget review session on Saturday, November the 14th at 8 a.m. And if your schedule doesn't permit you to be able to be there, feel free to contact Paul Becker or myself, and we can schedule a one-on-one time to review the information with you as well. What time is that, Don? It's Saturday, November the 14th at 8 a.m. How long will it last, Don? Okay.
 We have it booked till noon, but it'll last as long as you all have questions. We'll go all day, John, if you want to go all day.
 And then lastly, we're proud of our city's information technology department and all of our divisions. The city was recognized as a 2015 Digital City winner in our population category for leading examples of cities using technology to improve services and boost efficiencies. And so they picked 10 cities in that category, and we were number two. So next year we'll shoot for number one. Mr. Hickman.
 Monday, November 16th, Energize Southside will meet at 5.30 p.m. at the New Design School. We will hear from University of Arkansas sociology graduate students who are working with the Yvonne Richardson Center and have been interviewing people experiencing homelessness on the Southside to help us get some insight into the causes and...
 experiences that they are experiencing so everyone is welcome that's 530 at the new design school on Monday November 16 thank you yes I feel the need to make some clarification regarding the civil rights ordinance which I these all of the things I'm going to say are things that are outlined in the ordinance and
 The mayor appoints a mediator to work with individuals who might bring a grievance to the city attorney's office. I think that our citizens need to know that that is where the grievance is taken, is to the city attorney's office. And a mediator will work with the individual for a maximum of four days. And if the mediation fails,
 then the city attorney will inform the Civil Rights Commission, who then calls a meeting within two weeks to address the grievance. Those are some facts that I think have been a little bit misunderstood.
 Anything? Yes, sir. I'll just say this month and next month November and December There will be no ward for meeting due to the holiday schedule. So our next word for meeting will be January I just don't want people to show up and there not be a meeting. So thank you I should probably tell
 All you co-defendants that there is a hearing on the case where the city and all aldermen were in the mayor. Yes, of course. Were sued in order to try to overturn the civil rights ordinance.
 The current issue to be argued at 9 o'clock on Friday in Judge Martin's courtroom is a motion to stay. It says stay the enactment of the ordinance, even though the ordinance was actually already enacted by the citizens of September 8, but I think he means stay the enforcement of the ordinance. That will be at 9 o'clock Friday.
 Nobody is required to be there except for me, but no defendant needs to be there. However, it is public and anybody that wants to be there can certainly be there. It's an open public hearing in front of the judge. I have asked the judge also to possibly consider the motions to dismiss that I have filed in this particular case. Whether or not he will have time to do that, I do not know.
 But at least the motion to stay will likely be considered and decided that morning. Alan. Can I ask a question? Sure. So the individuals on the city council, I know some individuals were and some weren't named personally in the lawsuit. I know that they're not legally able to sue us personally, but we don't need to show up.
 You do not need to show up. I have certainly, and part of my motion to dismiss is to dismiss the individual count or claims against you. My belief is that you're absolutely immune from legislative actions that were taken, and I've argued that. The plaintiffs still claim that you are not and that you are individually liable under their theory, so it's up to the judge to give us the final word on that. Anything else? We're adjourned. Thank you.