I'm going to go ahead and call the city council meeting to order for November the 16th, 2021. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Harvey. Here. Jones. Here. Kenyon. Kenyon. Scroggins. Scroggins. Bunch. Here.
 Mayor Jordan. Here, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Thank you all. The first order of business we have tonight, we have a walk-on. It is an ordinance to waive the requirements for foreign competitive bidding and to authorize the purchase of three dump trucks and one roll-off truck from Ozark Kenworth of Springdale for the total amount of $780,322 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges and to approve the budget adjustment kit.
 Well, Mary, the first thing we need is for the city council to suspend the rules to allow this walk-on to be placed on the agenda. Okay. I would like to suspend the rules and put this on the agenda. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to put this on the agenda. Caravage, please call the roll. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Okay, that passed, so I'll go ahead and read the body of the ordinance. Okay. Whereas units 767, 769, and 4029, and 9086 are either at the normal replacement points range or will be by the time replacements arrive.
 And whereas Ozark Kenworth has the ability to build the three replacement dump trucks, and we're trying to hold a roll-off for the city that has already been built but needs purchase orders as soon as possible. And whereas there are no other manufacturers or dealers that are able to bid at this time,
 and whereas due to ongoing supply chain and manufacturing issues as well as unpredictable ordering windows, competitive bidding is not feasible or practical. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby fines the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of three dump trucks for use by the Transportation Department
 one roll-off truck for use by the recycling and trash collection division from Ozark Kenworth of Springdale for the total amount of seven hundred and eighty thousand three hundred and twenty two dollars Plus any Apple taxes and freight charges Section two that the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment a copy of which is attached to this Ordinance, okay, who has this? Sarah's here. Okay, Sarah go ahead. I
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Thank you for hearing me tonight. This is an item that I frankly didn't expect to come to Council. We have...
 and we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done. And then we're going to be able to get that done.
 to the council. But yes, we have checked with other manufacturers. Most manufacturers are not taking orders at all. Kenworth was able to find these trucks for us and we may lose them. We may have already lost the roll off. I'm not sure, but it's all based on timing. I'm happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into seconds of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one has raised their hand. Who? No one has raised their hand. Okay. Would anyone like to address us in the chamber tonight? Okay.
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading what action or Conversation with the council like to have here. I have a comment It sounds like Speed is of the essence tonight So that we're able to obtain these vehicles and so I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading if there's no other comment
 Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Ginnion? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of three dump trucks and one roll-off truck from Ozark Kenworth of Springdale for the total amount of $780,322 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges and to approve a budget adjustment. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carriage, please call the roll.
 Yes, yes, yes. Yes, yes.
 Norness away the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorized the purchase of three dump trucks and one roll-off truck from Ozark Kenworth of Springdale for the total amount of seven hundred and eighty thousand three hundred and twenty two dollars Plus any affable taxes and freight charges and to approve a budget adjustment Any final comments from the council care which please call the roll Turk? Yes Herzberg yes Harvey yes Jones
 Yes. Kenyon? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. The next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda, and it reads, approval of the November 2, 2021 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a community policing development crisis program
 Intervention team grant from the U.S. Department of Justice in a total amount of $250,000 to approve the addition of two full-time equivalent non-uniform positions to the police department to hire social workers to identify and work with residents in need of services and two full-time equivalent uniform positions and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of an air cascade system from GNW Diesel Services Incorporated, DBA, EVS, any amount of $34,461.05, plus any applicable taxes pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council cooperative purchasing contract for use at Fire Station Number 1 and to approve the budget adjustment.
 number four resolution to authorize the purchase of bunker gear coats and pants from nafco inc pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract in the amount of sixty four thousand nine hundred sixty eight dollars plus flexible taxes and freight charges number five a resolution to approve change order number one to the professional engineering services agreement
 with mcclellan consulting engineers incorporated any amount of 19 115 for materials testing services associated with the new police headquarters facility and to approve the budget adjustment this is 2019 police headquarters bond project number six
 resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Hawkins where engineers incorporated any amount not to exceed one hundred ninety seven thousand dollars for design and bidding services for recycling and trash facility improvements and to approve a budget adjustment
 Number seven, a resolution to approve change order number six to the construction manager at-risk contract Flintco LLC for the police headquarters project in the amount of $5,431,413 and to approve a budget adjustment this 2019 police headquarters bond project.
 Number eight, a resolution to approve change order number six of the contract with Navajo's Construction Corporation in the amount of $1,255,595 for the early site package related to the replacement parking deck project and to approve budget adjustment. This is 2019 Cultural Arts Corridor Bond Project.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $43,900, recognizing additional revenue and associated expenses for certain parking facilities and services. Number 10, a resolution to approve a one-year contract with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms with Johansson Consulting Incorporated, DBA Johansson Group for a
 classification compensation and benefits study in the amount of $20,000 for the first year to approve an annual project contingency of $7,500 for market reviews and ongoing consulting services each year the contract is in effect and to approve a one-year software license and support agreement
 with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms with DB Square LLC for DB compensation software in the amount of $3,000 per year. And number 11, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $198,000 for the purchase of additional jet fuel due to increased jet fuel sales. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved.
 We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Thank you all very much. Now we move to unfinished business. Number one.
 an ordinance rezoned that property described rezoning petition rzn 21-072 located at 3220 west old farmington road for approximately 20.40 acres from ra residence agricultural and rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf8 residential single family eight units breaker this was left on the first reading at the last council meeting i will entertain a motion to go to the second reading i move to the second reading
 Second. Do we have a second? Second. Okay we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerridge please call the roll. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 And in order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning rotation RZN 21-072, located at 3220 West Old Farmington Road for approximately 20.4 acres from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF 4 Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8 Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre. Jonathan. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the City's Development Services Department. I have no updates or new information on this item, and I believe Evan Niehaus is here as the applicant for the request. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? You can remove your mask while you're speaking to the council. Thank you, guys. My name is Evan Niehaus with Harrison French, and I'm here to answer any questions. Okay. Thanks. All right. What questions do we have in the council on this? Okay.
 All right, let's take some public comment. If everybody gets one turn to speak, you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. Then those that are in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Nobody has raised their hand. OK, is there anyone in the chamber who would like to speak on this issue?
 okay i'll bring it back to the city council this is an ordinance it's on the second reading what discussion or action would the council like to take on this uh mayor i'd like to make a comment sure um jonathan i'm going back through and looking at at the summary findings and i've
 I just, this is a suggestion just to clarify. On page 3 of 18, it talks about tree preservation. And in that summary, it just talks about the RSF 8 20% requirement and RSF 4 and RA with a 25% requirement. But this piece of property has the hillside hilltop overlay. And if
 If I'm not correct, isn't that a 25% requirement and should have maybe been included in that summary? I think it ought to have been, yes. It is the northern third of the property that is at the hillside. Our foresters take a weighted average of the overall property in instances like that, but that is a good point to bring up. Thank you.
 So it is 25%. Am I right on that? Or it's a moving target? It's 25% for the portion of the property that's within the HHOD, which is about that northern third. Thank you so much for clarifying. I just wanted to make sure that everybody understood that. Thank you. Okay. Anything else? I just wanted to ask Councilmember Jones, have you heard anything on this? This is our ward.
 Sonja, no, I have not. Yeah, I haven't either. I'm just wondering, has anybody else, maybe our board, but just reaching out to other council members, has anybody else heard anything? Nobody's reached out to me, Sonja.
 I'm just asking, I'm having, you know, just trying to get limited email access, but, um, okay. I appreciate that. Um, yeah, it just seems like we're not really getting any major pushback here. And it seems like a reasonable four to eight, we need, you know, more, more housing and more density. It seems like a, a, not too, too big of a jump in density. So I'm inclined to, to, um,
 Go ahead. Do we need to push this to the third reading? Is that where we are? Right now, this is an ordinance that's setting on the second reading. It would take council action to move it to the third reading. Unless there's other discussion, I would like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 Yes. Jones. Yes. Canyon. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. And in order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 21-072 located at 3220 West Old Farmington Road for approximately 20.4 acres.
 from RA, residential agricultural, and RSF4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to RSF8, residential single-family, eight units per acre. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? All right. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Terp? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Harris?
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number two.
 ordinance to amend 118.01 applicability of the federal city code and 163.18 short-term rentals of the unified development code to extend the short-term rental startup period from six months to nine months this was left on the first reading I would entertain a motion go to the second reading and if we go to the second reading second we have a motion to second to go to the second read care which police call the roll
 Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 in order to amend section 118.01 applicability of the fable city code and section 163.18 short-term rentals of the unified development code to extend the short-term rental startup period from six months to nine months and as i informed you yesterday and i think had talked to you earlier uh
 I think this could be effective immediately, but since it's an ordinance, I would rather you all amend it to also add an emergency clause to make sure there's no question that this ordinance will go into effect immediately. I sent that out, so if someone would like to make a motion to amend it to what I have supplied you, I would be appreciative. I would like to make a motion that we amend it to allow an emergency clause to go into effect immediately. Second. We have a motion to second to amend.
 add the emergency clause to the title um care which please call right turd yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes canyon yes scroggin yes fudge yes and mayor since we're supposed to read an ordinance at least one time fully i'm going to read section three which is the emergency clause which i did not read before
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because short-term rental operators should be given additional time to comply with the City's life safety standards and insurance requirements for short-term rentals, which are necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Okay. Jonathan. Jonathan.
 thank you mayor i have nothing new to add since the last council meeting other than we have seen about 25 new applications since november 2nd which is at this point in the process the most we've seen in a two-week period so hopefully some of the press coverage we got since the last meeting was was helpful in that and i'm happy to take any questions the council has thank you do we have any questions from the council
 Jonathan, do you know, these applicants, I know one of the challenges we had was where a management company would take care of several properties and maybe they get lost in where they were in the process. Have the applications we've had in the past two weeks, do you think that seems to be getting better or do you have any indication on that at all?
 I unfortunately don't. I'm sorry, I did ask that question and it's hard to sort through and know exactly who's associated with which one. A lot of these are operating as DBA doing business as, or they, as many of you all have probably seen in places, they like to use cute names sometimes for the locations, which makes it a little bit difficult to associate it with a particularly operating group. So no, I'm sorry, I don't have that information. Okay. All right.
 Okay, anything else from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. If I gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken in the segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Logan Humphrey. Okay, go ahead Logan.
 hi there can everyone hear me yes okay great thank you mayor and everyone in the council i really appreciate this um i'm coming today with uh representing two different companies um i know i've been involved since 2019 when this gets got started so some of you are familiar with but i'm representing the arkansas short-term alliance which advocates for fair and reasonable regulations along with responsible rent and it's important that i note that second part we want to state that
 Short term rentals are a viable and a professional aspect in the community. And, you know, I for one personally can say that I am happy with the ordinance process and everything that the city has done to push this forward. So the other representation is my management company, Coho B&B Properties.
 We currently have, I think, 40 rentals in Fayetteville, but we manage 90 properties across Northwest Arkansas that are all short-term rentals, vacation rentals. I wanted to state that successfully we have registered 25 properties that have been licensed with the city.
 We have about 12 or so that are pending. Most of that's just timing, some problems with the inspections that are being corrected, etc. I wanted to put some input, though. It's come to my attention that some of the properties that we manage will probably not pass the way the ordinance is written right now.
 part of that's probably intentional which is understandable but there are some unintentional elements to the way the ordinance is written for instance some of the properties that we have that are in the entertainment district where hotels are allowed by right the way that it's written currently that may need to be looked at and considered is a property that is a condo
 the city doesn't necessarily differentiate from building code whether or not it's multi-family or independently owned. We have some properties that are waiting for a potential to be approved for this clarification.
 I personally see this as just problematic. I know there's many members of the community that have expressed the ability that if there is a citywide density cap, say 2%, that that would be sufficient for housing related issues that may arise rather than regulating it too much into whether or not the rental itself should be able to be like a multifamily unit, for instance,
 could be able to be licensed. So I know that we have four that will fail. Only one of the building. There's 16 units there. Four of them are short-term rentals. The rest are long-term rentals. So I wanted to take this into consideration in maybe a future reading of it after the registration period is over.
 I do know that there are other, you know, coming back to the short-term rental advocacy group, I know there are other people that are members of Arkansas Short-Term Rental Alliance who have expressed that seeing some fundamental issues with, say, duplex, that only one of them can be licensed and registered and the other one cannot, no matter whether or not the property is a mid-term rental, so, you know, maybe a couple months at a time.
 And I know that with the 90 properties that Coe VV manages, we have many that we rent out for a couple of months, you know, a couple of weeks here and there, some are nightly and then a couple of them are, you know, four to five months at a time, depending on the need of the furnished rental itself. I want to make sure that we, and I would love to ask this as an actual question, would you yield some of the time if there is time? Sure.
 Can there be some clarity from my understanding on properties that are multi-family, whether or not they're independently owned, as in like a condo, you know, one owner owns one unit, versus a townhome that may have one connecting wall, versus an apartment community that has multiple units, like 20, and what our code currently states is,
 for how short-term rentals can be regulated on that matter. So that's actually a question I'd love an answer, if someone can help me out here. OK. I'm sure Jonathan could. Do you want to finish taking public input? Yeah, let's take public input and then Jonathan will answer all those questions. OK. So right now, I see no other hands raised on Zoom. OK. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to address us on this topic, short-term rentals?
 Okay. Okay. So, Jonathan, did you get those questions from Mr. Humphrey?
 I think I heard, correct me if I'm wrong, one question, but there were a few elements wrapped up into it. And if I'm correct, I'll do my best. And if I've missed something, I ask the council or somebody else to please clarify what I may have missed. It seems like the biggest concern, and this is something that staff has indeed seen as well, is with the density caps that have been adopted with the short-term rental ordinance.
 most specifically there's a cap on the number of units within a building or a complex that can be licensed as a short-term rental currently that's set at ten percent or one if the complex has say eight units
 And the feedback that we've received is there are a lot of property owners who are members of horizontal property regimes or condominium associations where they own the units. They're not apartments, as one may think of them, that they would like to be considered differently than an apartment building. I think to Mr. Humphrey's question about how
 The way staff has applied it and interpreted it is the way the short-term rental ordinance applies is says multi-family housing.
 There's not a distinction in Fayetteville's ordinances, whether the development code or otherwise, that describes a difference between an apartment building or a condominium building or a dormitory. If there are more than four units attached to each other, it's considered multifamily. I think if I recall correctly, I think when we discussed this at the last meeting, I foreshadowed that I'd like to bring forward a presentation to the council a year before the end of the year,
 with issues like this that if the council does consider them a concern, staff can certainly work on an amendment or language if you feel it's appropriate to amend that consideration. Mr. Humphrey's comments and those we've heard from others. Thank you. I think that does answer the question. Okay. What other, what question, any questions from the council? What action discussion would the council like to have?
 to take on short-term room. I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. We have motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Terg? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 and orders to amend section 118.01 applicability of the fayetteville city code and section 163.18 short-term rentals of the unified development code to extend the short-term rental startup period from six months to nine months and to declare an emergency okay any final comments from the council care would you please call the road turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scraggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to new business. Number one, an ordinance to repeal ordinances 6465 and 6486 to end the mask mandate because new COVID-19 virus infections and hospitalizations have been reduced, more vaccinations have been administered, and vaccinations are now authorized and available for all Americans five years old and older and to declare an emergency.
 Mayor we need to also have a vote on the emergency clause from the previous order. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Yes, you're right So do we have a motion in the second for the emergency call and if we accept the emergency clause? Okay. Okay. Yeah the motion is second for the emergency clause care which please call her. Yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones. Yes Indian yes
 Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Since you've read the whole title, I'm going to go into the body now of this. No, I'll turn it over to you, Kit. All right, thank you. I'm going to read the body of the ordinance that the mayor just read the title of.
 Whereas in August of 2021, the city of Fayetteville, Washington County and the state of Arkansas were suffering a rapidly increasing pandemic of the Delta variant of COVID-19 virus among the unvaccinated, as noted by Governor Hutchinson's proclamation of pandemic emergency.
 And whereas in an effort to protect fatal citizens, especially those who could not be vaccinated like young children, the Fable City Council passed Ordinance 6465 on August 6th to require masks to be worn in most indoor public places of accommodation after Act 1002 of 2021, which had banned mask mandates, had been declared unconstitutional and been preliminarily enjoined.
 And whereas the City Council also acted upon the recommendation of the City Board of Health that masks should be required even for the fully vaccinated, again, in most public indoor places of public accommodation until the pandemic surge of the unvaccinated substantially subsided.
 And whereas upon the advice of the City Board of Health, the City Council passed Ordinance 6486 on October 5, 2021, to continue the mask mandate after the governor's proclamation of pandemic emergency had ended because the infection and hospital rate was still dangerously high and because young children still could not be vaccinated.
 And whereas all persons aged five and older were authorized in early November to become vaccinated, the rate of the new COVID infections and hospitalizations has substantially subsided, and the City Council program to increase vaccinations in Fayetteville has been very successful. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby deterrents that because of the increased vaccination rate in Fayetteville, the availability of vaccinations for all persons older than four years of age, and the reductions in new infections and hospitalizations, the mask mandate can now be lifted and so repeals Ordinances 6465 and Ordinance 6486, Section 2.
 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby recommends that unvaccinated persons continue wearing masks in all public gatherings until fully vaccinated, and determines that ending the city's mask mandate does not prevent any business, school, library, theater, or other entity from requiring masks for employees or for persons utilizing their facility.
 and Section 3 Emergency Clause that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are here by determined that this ordinance should become effective without delay to protect the peace and safety of our citizens by allowing a proper return to more normal activities now that the number of vaccinated persons has increased, that children age 5 and older are eligible to be vaccinated, and that hospitalization numbers of persons with COVID-19 have substantially decreased.
 Okay, so we have Council Member Scroggins and Hershberg that have sponsored this, so what opening remarks would you like to make? I have a couple comments. So for me, this isn't a discussion about the efficacy of masks, rather a discussion on the efficacy of an ordinance that is not subject to any realistic enforcement.
 I don't believe it's good public policy to maintain ordinances that most people seem to perceive as purely voluntary.
 And as I mentioned last week at the agenda session, I don't believe this ordinance has had any real effect on behavior. The majority of people that I observe outside the hospital don't wear masks and people and businesses are making their own determinations on this issue. Not necessarily following what we do here on Tuesday evenings at City Hall. I just think that having this ordinance in place with the blatant disregard I've observed makes the city look a little bit foolish.
 um also worth mentioning repealing this ordinance would not prevent businesses from making their own determination of what is right for them or force them to engage in any condition they view as unsafe i just think it's a lot more practical for a business to enforce policy on their own premises rather than an entire city whose population appears to be very torn on the matter so thank you thank you shalom
 Yeah, I come to, I guess, the same conclusion about removing it through kind of a different mechanism. I do think that initially the ordinance did have some effect, but obviously there's some correlation between what people wanted to do and what we're asking of them. People really aren't wearing the mask anymore, so having something on the books that isn't getting enforced is problematic.
 So I think it was the right thing to do. And then also because I think it was the right thing to do, I think it's important that we listen to the science and react to it about what's happening. I was listening to NPR on this and they said that not removing mask mandates at the proper time could cause people to
 not believe policymakers, not believe scientists. And we may be needing masks again. I think the first time we removed this, I said, I fully expect us to be back. I don't know if it's six months or six years. And unfortunately it was six months.
 And when people are listening to us and watching us, if we stick to stuff that isn't useful longer than it should, they don't believe us when we ask to kind of go back to it. So I think it's time. I believe the board would have helped to give a date. I won't be supporting the emergency clause because I think by the 31 days out,
 that actually gets us more in line with what the Board of Health said. But I absolutely support the thing I'm sponsoring. But I don't support the emergency clause. That way we're in line with the Board of Health. And also people can start reacting to it and they'll have notice. I had a lot of people email me about this, kind of on both sides.
 Some of the people that were for removing, unfortunately, had some kind of bogus studies, but that's beyond the point. But there are people who are asked, why aren't we doing what Fayetteville High School or the school district's doing and having this kind of like trigger based on the numbers, you know, out the last week or seven day average? I think for the school district, that makes sense because they control everything.
 What's coming in and out of their school? And so if there is a rule change for them They can enact it almost immediately because they can email all their teachers and it quickly gets disseminated whereas of city if we're flipping and flopping back and forth based on some Metric it would be very difficult for people to follow that so I don't think I don't think that system would work for us. I
 But I think it's about time to go ahead and remove the mask mandate. And then by giving us the 31 days, I think it gets us close to in line with the Board of Health. Probably not totally. I'm sure there's people on the Board of Health that would like to see us keep it. But like I mentioned, people need to trust us because I fully expect in the next 10 years we'll be back to something like this again. And if people don't trust us to remove it, they may not trust us to when we need to enact it again. Yeah.
 And I'll open for any questions. Okay. Now, I have asked the Board of Health officers to speak to council tonight because it did go to the Board of Health, and they do have a recommendation. Thank you. And I have a...
 Slider to here first of all, I would like to say I do agree. I'm sure you have ten minutes. Thank you That microphone That better yeah, sorry and I do agree that we need to think about mask and
 as Councilman Scroggin said, is something that we're going to need time and time again. They can be more like an umbrella. You're going to need to pull it out when you need it and put it back when you don't. That being said, I would like to go over what the Board of Health discussed and if I could have the first slide.
 This is something that I have not presented here prior. This is the hospitalizations and ICU admissions in the regional hospitals. The yellow line is the ICU's admissions in our regional hospitals and the blue line is our COVID hospitalizations.
 So right now our yellow line, our ICU admissions are hovering around a little bit above, a little bit below 100, which is where the healthcare systems say they are at a straining point. Right now our COVID admissions are also kind of hovering around the 30 hospitalizations, which is also the point where they say that they're a little bit strained of note.
 Saturday, there were 20 COVID hospitalizations in the area. Today as of 7 a.m., there's 34. So we are seeing an increase. I want that to be noted. I just wanted to show you this data because I had not had the opportunity to as of yet. Next slide, please. Sorry, 34. 36 cases. It's actually been a little bit higher. So from 20 to 36. So 36 active cases right now.
 COVID in our area hospitals, 96 in the ICU, so our ICUs remain tight. And we still have ongoing emergency department deverts, meaning there are times in our city where we have a citizen in an ambulance without a hospital to go to.
 The Board of Health did meet since I was here last week and discussed the this mask mandate proposition about removing it. They stick by the less than 30 COVID hospitalizations in the area hospitals is their metric that we would like to stick by as far as when it would be appropriate for the mask mandate to be lifted at which point our hospitals are not no longer feeling the strain of the COVID pandemic.
 The one thing that they did discuss, and that was the date, and December 23rd is the date that they came up with as long as our cases stay below 30. And if you'll give me the next slide, I'll go through the reasoning on that.
 One is there was a slower rollout of the pediatric doses and that was because Arkansas Department of Health used a different mechanism to distribute the doses throughout the state so they did not get administered as widely and as freely in the first week that they were available as we were hoping.
 And it's a different process that they've used for the adult doses. Two, the federal public schools COVID clinics, the first one is occurring this week for ages 5 to 11. And then their follow-up doses are going to be December 6th through 10th. And that means that those kids who got the dose last will be considered fully vaccinated by December 24th.
 In addition, the University of Arkansas is having their fall graduation on December 18th, and that's going to be a very large indoor event. And finally, the Fayetteville Public School Board made the decision to keep the mask mandate in place for those 5 to 11 through December 23rd, which is the final day of classes for the Fayetteville Public School system.
 And it is approved today, I believe it's 30 days that it would go into effect, which is December 16th. So for that reason, just to be concise and have consistent messaging is the recommendation of the Board of Health that December 23rd be the date that it would be considered to be lifted as long as our hospitalizations are less than 30. Okay. What questions do we have from the council?
 Dr. Sharkey, this is Councilmember Sonja. Thank you for that presentation. Very helpful data. When you say Northwest Arkansas, is that Washington County and Benton County? Yes, yes, it is. It includes Arkansas Children's, Washington Regional, Mercy, the VA, and the Northwest system. And the reason for that is...
 we see people from fat male hospitalized throughout the region and also it affects how our citizens are being cared for yeah i just wanted to know what that region was um do uh i think that well that's all i have for right now thank you okay anything else
 I have one question. If I remember correctly, Dr. Sharkey, we do not get statistics for municipalities anymore, just counties. Is that correct? And we try to balance it with hospitalization rates. For hospitalizations, we just have area data.
 Is that what you're asking? Yeah. And since the metric that the Board of Health has decided to focus on is hospitalizations, that's what we're going with versus the cases, just because the cases are not as reliable. OK, all right, thank you.
 I just wanted to make one more brief comment. I know that, Kit, I had talked to you about whether or not, sorry, whether or not the University of Arkansas was under our ordinance and whether or not they would adhere to our policy. And you had said that they are kind of under their own jurisdiction. Is that correct?
 Yes, the university doesn't have to follow many of our ordinances, the noise ordinance, this ordinance, the mask ordinance. They have their own regulations and they handle their own students. Okay, I just wanted to make that comment for the public that this
 if we repeal this ordinance that this might not impact the u of a graduation because they kind of set their own their own standard i will say that the representative that's on the board of health from the university is requesting that it stay in place through december 23rd for the very reason that kind of all for one one for all okay thank you
 I'd be perfectly fine with an amendment to the 23rd. I mean, we're talking about a week, and if we can get people lined up over a week, then that makes sense to me. Sloan, do you want that amended just to the 23rd, or do you want it amended to the 23rd provided cases stay below 30? I would rather just to the 23rd.
 you know, the changing metrics, you know, what happens if it doesn't? And then do you, you know, I don't want to kick back or kick off or, you know, just to date, but you know, I'm one vote. So I can always be overrode. Okay. I guess I'll go ahead and make the motion then. I'd like to amend this to take effect, which is actually removing the mandate on the 23rd of December.
 Okay, that would be cheap That would be changing section 3 removing the emergency clause and putting the effective date of the ordinance for December 23rd Is that what your motion that sounds great a lot more articulate than I made it Okay, so that's the motion to move the date from the emergency clause to the 23rd of December yes, it would be changing section 3 which is now the emergency clause and making say the well ordinance will not be effective until the
 uh december 23rd so that's the amendment is there a second on the amendment okay well the amendment dies so here we are back to where we are so do we um i'm open to amending for to align with the board of health that as long as the hospitalizations are under 30 um
 by the 23rd, then I'm okay with that. But personally, I don't see the numbers I'm seeing are going up. I've gotten seven, eight, 10, 12 cases added to my assisted living where my mother is just this week. I'm getting phone calls regularly that they're adding cases. So I don't see that number going down personally.
 Um, however, if there's a miracle and we have 30 cases in hospitals and, and here's the other thing too, a lot of those assisted living people, they're not going to the hospital because it's more dangerous for them to be at the hospital. So they're keeping them at the assisted living and they're not even getting counted. So it, you know, that number, it's just, it's never, it's helpful, but, um, anyways, I
 You know, it's just hard. It's hard to know. So, I mean, I'm willing. I appreciate the comments about, you know, we want to make something that's enforceable and that makes sense and has advocacy. So if the cases are actually 30 that are being reported, then sure. But if they're not, then no. So I guess my amendment is no.
 I want to be in alignment with the Board of Health. If cases are under 30 by the 23rd, is that correct? Then we repeal it.
 Did I say that right? That would make this ordinance effective, and that would repeal the other two ordinances that initiated the mask mandate. So you would like to say that its effective date would be December 23, as long as there are no more than 30 hospitalizations. Is that correct? That's correct. So that's your amendment.
 That's correct. I would second that. OK, we have an amendment that the mask mandate would end on the 23rd if the cases are 30 or less. And what happens if we're at 31? Does that mean that this would never go away until we bring a totally new ordinance? Or is it when the second one happens, the date and the 30?
 So, Sonia, I would ask for a friendly amendment. The hospitalizations are below 30, and the Board of Health recommends, I guess, removal of the mask mandate or recommends repeal.
 I don't really want to base the City Council decision on a recommendation of another body. I mean, I think you need to choose your factors you want, but not give your legislative power to another body like that. I think that might not pass legal muster. But I can see that there are some problems with this proposed amendment right now. Thank you, Kent. I withdraw my suggestion.
 I'm open to ideas. I definitely want it to be as, you know, enforceable and clear and any reservations you have, Kit, I'm open to recommendations or suggestions.
 If you wanted it to take effect after December 23rd, as long as there are, and when there are no more than 30 hospitalizations, then I think that would cover the issue that Sloan brought up, because that means that once December 23rd hits, and then we have a day when there are no more than 30 hospitalizations regionally, then this ordinance would take effect then.
 I think we have to set a specific date. I feel like this is very unclear. I'm sorry, what did you say? I just think we need to pick a date. I don't think that it should be at a certain number. How are we going to tell people what number this is, and how are we going to educate people? This seems very complicated. You know, I understand everyone's concern, and I have the same concerns because...
 To me, it sounds like we're saying, okay, you can go get a shot and your kids can get a shot.
 But we're at what, 48% vaccination rate in the state of Arkansas? I mean, you can, you know, there's lots of things that could happen, but they aren't happening. And I don't know what approach to take on this. Yeah, you could wear a mask. But if a business doesn't enforce you wearing a mask and the city doesn't enforce you wearing a mask, you know, lots of people don't wear masks. I mean, I don't have a problem with wearing a mask.
 or getting vaccinated, but a lot of our citizens evidently can't, you know, can't handle doing that or don't feel like it's, it's the right thing for them for whatever reason. So I don't know how do we base our, what we do in our city based on what, you know, what people could do, but we know they're not doing. Does that make sense? I don't think it does, but maybe somebody understands why I'm hitting what you know, because we're, we're,
 I think wearing masks is a prudent thing to do, but our citizens don't seem to want to do that. And, you know, I don't know how we approach that any other way. Well, I have a little bit of a point of view on that. I agree with you. People aren't wearing masks anyway unless they want to. At what point...
 do we give the responsibility of wearing a mask to the individual rather than mandating it? I don't know what that point is, but I don't see that people are paying any attention. I really don't. And it bothers me. I prefer masks. I see the utility in wearing one, and I support that. But it's a personal choice at this time.
 At one time, there wasn't a vaccine as an option. And so there was a risk to a lot of people. I come from 23 years of experience with GlaxoSmithKline vaccines, and I believe vaccines have changed the nature of the health in our world by eliminating and controlling some infectious diseases. This isn't 100%, and nothing is, unfortunately.
 There are reactions to anything you put in your body, so that is a risk that you've got to think about also. But as an adult or as a leader of your family, I think at this point there's enough evidence out there on both sides of the coin for you to make your choice. Now, I'm a scientist, and I believe in the vaccines, and I know that vaccines have a history of changing health around the world. So I encourage everyone to get vaccinated.
 There's a lot of bogus figures out there, period. And you need to get your numbers from a reliable source such as the CDC. They are reliable. They're not nuts. They're respected individuals. You look at a valid publication like the New England Journal or the Lancet that has an editorial board that is very well educated and understands the activity that allows a vaccine to work.
 but if you don't want to wear a mask and if you want to be at a risk, and if you don't want to get vaccinated, you're not going to do it anyway. And so I am for going ahead and, and this people are not going to believe that I say this because I'm such an advocate for protection and vaccines, but it, just like council member Hertzberg said, there is, there's not really a lot of impact at this point on the, uh,
 Ordinance as far as I can tell and that's regrettable. It is regrettable, but at this point I think it would be okay just to go with the ordinance the way it was originally written and I I apologize for anyone that thinks that I am being Irresponsible but I think that everyone has the opportunity to be responsible for their own health and their own actions and
 So this was not easy for me to come up with or even to say, because vaccines are important. Protection is important. Do all you can to protect yourself, but don't mandate something that is not happening anyway. That's just my point of view. It's a regretful point of view, but I think it's based on reality. Yeah.
 Okay. Now, I know Dr. Sharkey said she had to leave because her mother is ill and the caregiver had to leave early. So I would ask that we let her be excused and then we'll continue this on. Okay. You know, I agree with Mark on this about it is regrettable that we have people that, you know, we know masks work. And we have people that just simply will not wear them for whatever reason. They just won't wear them.
 And, I mean, I wear them. I believe in them. I have no problem with it. I just got back from overseas, and I was in a country that has, I think, 86% vaccination rate. Everybody wears a mask until they're outside, and then they take it off. When you go inside, you put it back on. I mean, it was not impossible for the country that I was in, but get back to Arkansas, and it's just like...
 I don't know. So we have to work with the population we have here and what people believe in our state. And I don't know about having it go into effect on the 16th.
 I kind of am of the mind that it should maybe coincide with the university and maybe be a little bit later on down the road when college kids are, most college kids are gone on the 23rd. You know, they're still here doing finals on the 16th, aren't they? So I have a few comments.
 I do find it very disappointing. We have all this information now, and many of our citizens won't take the appropriate precautions and really stop the spread of this virus. However, I really feel that science and leadership is really important
 And I can support delaying the mask mandate until December 23rd. I can support that so that we would no longer have that mask mandate. However, if we have a huge spike between now and then, let's say we have 100 people
 admissions per day, which I hope we don't. I hope our numbers go down, but I would want us to reconsider that if we start having a huge number of new infections and maybe adjust that date, because we have to be the leaders of this city. We need to set the example.
 set the tone and our tone has been from the very beginning. Please get vaccinated. Please be careful. Please have your six foot of distancing and do everything that you can do to stop the spread of this disease. So I just would like us to be able to acknowledge that we would, if something, if our numbers go up dramatically, that we would reconsider.
 i would agree with that so kit how would we um i suppose if we did have just astronomical numbers between now and whatever is past the 16th or the 23rd or whatever um
 Do we have a, what do we do about that if we have, if we want to revisit it, Kit? How do we approach that? You would do exactly what you're doing tonight. Bring an ordinance forward saying we need to extend the date of the previous ordinances, just like you did once before after the governor's proclamation ended. So you can always bring back another ordinance. Yes.
 If some unforeseen thing happens and the city council believed that they had to extend the mask mandate because of medical or scientific reasons with some sort of surge that we don't anticipate now. So the city council maintains control of this. That's what you're doing here tonight. You're looking at whether or not you want it.
 and the mask mandates that were initially entered and then extended and you now you're looking at ending it with an ordinance and you can do that and in the future if you wanted to you could extend that date or even pass a brand new mask mandate this remains within the city's council's power to pass these ordinances it's a lot like you ever get to say this is it City Council can't come back and do anything else because you retain that power
 Well, again, if we pass the ordinance as it was initially written without the emergency clause, it does give us time to be reflective on the impact. Yes, if you put it down for December 23rd, as was suggested with no particular other conditions, and then you get...
 in the middle of December and you see very terrible numbers and you and the City Council believes you need to continue the mask mandate then you could certainly bring an ordinance right then with an emergency clause to continue
 The mask mandate to change this section three, maybe, and extend the date at that point in time. So nothing that you do short of passing bonds are really written in stone that you can come back and reconsider that, just like we're reconsidering the previous mask mandate right now.
 okay well i'm open to re-calling my my amendment or is that still on the floor i don't think it got a second did it okay the record says that the last motion was from harvey it says amend section 3 to december 23rd as long as cases are 30 or less and councilmember turk seconded it was second did you say okay then you you would have you could if you want to withdraw it then i didn't realize it was seconded
 Yeah, I'm interested in withdrawing it and just doing the 23rd and go back to just the ordinance itself and then with your recommendation about coming back if the numbers spike. I withdraw my second as well. I'll second what was my motion eight minutes ago. Is that the 16th or the 23rd, Sloan? That's the 23rd, isn't it? I believe she said the 23rd. Okay.
 Okay, so we have an amendment until the 23rd of December, and then we'll see how it's going. Yes, remove the emergency clause and substitute the 23rd of December. Okay. If we're lucky, everything goes down, and we have a new ordinance that says, hey, we want it to be effective immediately, so...
 Well, this is an amendment to the ordinance, so we're still going to discuss the ordinance itself if it's amended this way. Yes, if it's amended like this, the ordinance is still going to be discussed as amended. Okay. All right. Any other discussion on the amendment, which is set for the 23rd of December? Yeah. I know that Dr. Sharkey is not here. I think, well, the Board of Health did vote
 for the 23rd but that was if the cases were 30 or less but i mean whatever you know i'm leaving this to you all but whatever you want to do so you're saying the date for december the 23rd to end the mass magnet well if we pass it tonight it will end on the 23rd unless the numbers go back up i suppose and then we'll do something else i guess so any other discussion on the amendment from the council
 Okay. Sorry, Mayor. I just want to make it really clear that if those numbers go up, I will be bringing back an amended ordinance for sure. Because I do think it's very important to follow our Board of Health. I mean, they were reestablished to advise us just like they are doing. So I don't want to undermine them in any way. And so we'll be carefully watching. So thank you.
 That's true. I mean, I want to, yeah, and I think that's a good point. This Board of Health was established by the City Council, so to give you all advice. I just wanted to be sure you understood everything that has gone on. All right, so we have an amendment to end, if it's passed tonight, to end on the 23rd of December. All right. Carriage, please call the roll. I just want to make sure I heard correctly. Council Member Bunch, you seconded, correct? Correct.
 I don't even remember. I think I did. You can put me down for a second there. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Okay. Now we have an amended ordinance that says that the mask mandate, if passed tonight, will end on the 23rd of December. That's correct. All right. Uh, and we've already went through the council. Now we'll take some public comment. But keep in mind, this is an ordinance to end them if passed tonight, would end the mask mandate on the 23rd.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three or two minutes Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on the topic Please know rude behavior give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first And then those that are here in person after that who do we have on zoom Susan? Margaret Britton, okay, go ahead Margaret please unmute
 Sorry about that. This is Margaret Britton, 1931 North Wheeler Avenue. I feel like rather than trying to figure out how to enforce a mask mandate that you as a council felt was necessary,
 I feel like many of you are just throwing up your hands. And I think that although the numbers have come down, if you're hearing the same news I am, we just have to look as far as Colorado, a few hours away, to see that there is a fourth wave on the horizon and that the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays will undoubtedly come.
 be spreading that wave. So if you end it on the 23rd of December, you're just saying, okay, come back from Christmas and no masks. And I think that that works tragically against the most vulnerable. And by the most vulnerable, I guess for a minute, I wanna speak just to those who can't get the vaccine
 the little kids and the babies and to the elderly who, whether or not they're vaccinated or not can are still quite vulnerable. So like Sonia, my mom is in assisted living too. And basically all of the,
 The residents there have been vaccinated completely, but many of the staff have not. They've already lost one person in the last few weeks to COVID, had another one hospitalized. This is still very real for that population. So I think as leaders of the city, you need to be thinking about protecting the most vulnerable. Thanks. Okay, thank you. Who else? Okay.
 No one else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. And I have some sign-ups in the chamber. I have sign-ups. Okay. So who's that? Okay, Dr. James Smith. Okay. Can I take this off? Oh, sure. Dr. James Smith, 12759 South Highway 265, Prairie Grove, Arkansas. I've got the Fayetteville City Board of Health meeting minutes here. I just wanted to read a few things. This is September 22nd.
 in the Fayetteville Board of Health meeting minutes. They said that Labor Day and two ball games haven't shown an increased number in the number of cases of COVID. And so sometimes there's, you know, 200,000 people in town for a football game, and when we have 200,000 people, we don't see an increase in case. What more proof do you need that
 Mass aren't necessary. The other thing that the board of health meeting minutes said was that reports show from other countries that after eight weeks, the delta variant dies out. This is not my words. These are from the favor of board of health from the favor board of health meeting minutes on October the thirteenth. They're talking about basing their getting rid of the mass mandate on the percentage of vaccinated people, not on that thirty number.
 They also discussed changing the number from 30 down to 20 to 25. So it appears that they're willing to have a sliding scale when it comes to getting rid of the mask requirements. That doesn't make me feel good because who could say down the road that they'll make it 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. You're following their recommendation and so it's a little bit of a dangerous thing.
 That meeting also said that outdoors people should be wearing masks. And I'll show you why that's important that they said that.
 Okay, so 43% of the city of Fayetteville is vaccinated. That was from the most recent Fayetteville Board of Health meeting minutes on the 10th. It's a pretty low vaccination rate. It's much lower than Washington County, which has a 58.1% vaccination rate. It would appear that the citizens in Fayetteville kind of go against the rest of the state, and I think that applies for masks as well. I want to show you a few pictures that I've got here.
 that relate to the mask. So this is a picture of Dr. Marty Sharkey. She was at a health panel meeting. The doctors at the health panel were sitting less than six feet apart. They weren't wearing masks and they were sitting in front of a sign that was indicating that they should be six feet apart and that they should be wearing masks. So she was in violation of her own recommendations.
 There's a couple doctors that were there, both of them sitting within six feet of one another. Another couple doctors that were at that panel meeting. There's a host with those doctors, not sitting six feet apart. And the signs are behind them showing that you're supposed to be six feet apart wearing masks. They weren't doing it. Two other doctors at that event.
 Here's the superintendent of Fayetteville School District at a groundbreaking where he wasn't wearing a mask surrounded by people less than six feet apart. Here are city employees from Fayetteville standing less than six feet apart not wearing masks and
 Here are children from the Fayetteville Public School sitting right next to each other and not wearing masks in violation of the city ordinance. Here are children at the Fayetteville Public Library sitting less than six feet apart, not wearing masks in violation of the ordinance. More city employees standing less than six feet apart, not wearing masks in public setting. That was on November the 9th.
 Here are pictures from the Roots Festival. Many people in a crowded setting, nobody wearing masks, apparently because they're sitting down and they've got food and drink that the virus can't get to them. A couple of Fayetteville police officers at that same festival, less than six feet apart, not wearing masks, not socially distanced.
 So the marathon that the city recently hosted on October the 30th and a lot of people there nobody wearing masks Nobody socially distanced There's a picture of Sonia Gutierrez at an event Walton Arts Center on September the 30th Not wearing masks and a Walton Arts Center has a mask requirement when you're inside their facility and
 Here's another picture from Ms. Gutierrez, I guess a family get-together. Lots of people indoors, not socially distanced, not wearing masks. Picture of Ms. Gutierrez at the Walt Knott Performing Arts Center on September the 30th, not socially distanced, not wearing masks. Here's a picture of the mayor on October the 30th, standing outside less than six feet apart, not wearing masks, not socially distanced. Your time is up. You have five minutes. Your time is up.
 I'm just saying if you're going to make a mass for your time is that all the mass ordinance shut off the microphone, please All right, who else would like to address this Eddie Tisnato My name is Eddie Tisnato I'm a residence here in Fayetteville and a business owner here as well, and I'm here to Set it a City Council and mayor. Please vote. Yes, I
 on this reappeal to end the mask mandate with the emergency clause, which I wish you would have had the public speak first before you made any adjustments on that. Besides masking being useless, and I brought the boxes that have the disclaimers on them that says that these masks that you're wearing, the cloth ones, the surgical ones do not prevent
 the spread of COVID in any way. Besides that, besides it being unconstitutional to try to mandate citizens to wear masks, Dr. Sharkey and the Board of Health members
 you know, they continue the fear mongering. And before the games started, the football game started this year, you can go back and watch their videos and they did the same thing. They were overly concerned, talking about, oh my God, what's gonna happen? You know, the football games are coming. We're talking about thousands of people being here, over 65,000 people being in the stadiums and, you know, we're gonna see a rise and all this kind of stuff in COVID. Well,
 the opposite happened there was no rise it all went downward the second thing that they bring up are the children 5 to 11. well let's just wait let's just wait for precaution measure and let's just wait till they get vaccinated you know we get 30 days in make sure the back show me the data where 5 to 11 year olds are spreading covet show me that data anybody in here show me that data including dr sharkey including border health show me the data
 Young children not spreading it. Young children not getting it. So then how are they citing that, oh, we should wait because it's going to make a difference? It's not going to make a difference. It's just fear mongering. That's all it is. They continue to do this. The same thing with the games. We're talking about games here. We've had five home games, over 65,000 unmasked fans at each game. I've been to the games. I know they don't wear masks.
 You're talking about hundreds of tailgaters outside. You're talking about thousands of students attending the games. You're talking about hundreds of students on game day having parties. You're talking about them on Friday night going out to Dixon Street. Hundreds of students. You're talking about hundreds and thousands of students
 And yet, after all these games, we're seeing a downward trend, not an upward trend, which is the opposite of what the Board of Health said would probably happen. So why aren't we listening to the data?
 ACCORDING TO THEM, THEY KEEP SAYING THE SCIENCE, THE DATA. BY THE WAY, I'VE ALREADY CHALLENGED THEM ON THE DATA AND THE SCIENCE. I'VE ALSO EMAILED THE CITY COUNCIL AND THE MAYOR TO PLEASE PASS SOME KIND OF PROVISION THAT REQUIRES THEM TO SHOW YOU SCIENTIFIC PROOF THAT SUPPORTS THEIR DECISIONS OR THE RECOMMENDATIONS, WHICH THEY'RE NOT DOING.
 Why can't we see that as citizens? Why can't we see whatever they're telling you to do, suggesting rather for you to do? Why can't we see that data? Why is it hidden? Why aren't they sharing that? And I've already asked the city council. I've emailed you guys. I've asked you to pass some kind of ordinance where they have to show you the data. They're going to be recommending life decisions on me and my family and my business. Then show me the science. That's what I'm asking for.
 Children have no bearing, have no effect. They should not be at all involved. Dr. Sharkey, you know, we have the documents from the FOIA that was sent to her, the request sent to her in the minutes, and like Dr. James Smith shared, and by the way, the hypocrisy is just, it's nothing new. It's happening all over. But one of the things that's shared there is that on that meeting, in that meeting in September 12th,
 on their minutes item 6b it says labor day they wrote labor day and two ball games haven't shown an increase in numbers so they knew it they knew it from the very beginning that there was no increase in matter of fact they knew from the very beginning that they were wrong and the numbers were going down but did that share that with the public no because they're about fear mongering they're about pushing an agenda instead of really looking at science all i'm asking
 I'm a science guy. I'm data driven. I look at numbers. I tell my kids and my grandkids, follow the money. Look at the numbers. Time. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Jerry Etheridge. Who? Jerry Etheridge signed up. Is there anybody outside? No, see? Then next we have Robert Daniel Walker. Robert Walker. Thank you.
 Want to thank everybody that's come out tonight for whatever issue you're come out for very important. I Love Fayetteville, Arkansas You may know I came here 11 years ago almost when my brother died down on Dixon Street in a fire I just came to clean up the mess pay my respects and go home You couldn't pay me to go back to California. I
 And I salute you the City Council for the part you played in making this the city that I love so much and I would be Disappointing disappointed and I would also find it hard to believe That you would be unaware of the speed at which people of this city are waking up and the credibility You are elected public servants stand to lose should you ignore the numerous studies that prove not only how ineffective and
 but also how harmful these masks are, both physically and psychologically for us and for our children, especially our children. And follow the official version of this pandemic that comes down from above. Above, in this case, comes to us through our mainstream media, federal money, and the pharmaceutical industry.
 The above for our city government is the interest of the people you have been elected to serve. And again, I salute you for your hard work that you do. And thank you for giving me this opportunity to address you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I don't have any hands raised anymore on Zoom. And no one else has signed up. But you may have somebody who did not sign up. Does anyone like to speak on this issue that is not signed up?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay, this is an ordinance and it is on the first reading. So what action or discussion would the council like to have?
 I would just like to caution the council on taking numbers from a regional hospital to make our laws because a regional hospital takes people from all over the region, not necessarily just from Fayetteville. So I would just like you guys to take that into consideration. Okay. Okay.
 I do want to respond to some of the statistics. I mean, the statistics are pretty solid. We know that masks work.
 We've seen that over and over. Some of the people that are asking us to present data have actually said that we're not allowed in their mind to present data that came from the CDC or any organization that actually studies this, that somehow we have to produce it ourselves. That's absurd. There's a reason you have scientists and they study
 30 years before they really start pushing out papers. They know what they're doing. So the data is there, mask work. But one of the things I learned in team sports and video game sports when I play them is you should play based on how your team's playing, not how they should. So if your offensive line isn't doing what they're supposed to, you need to adjust. And if you don't adjust, then you're the one that's kind of being dumb there.
 um and that's just the case in pretty much any sport you need to know how your team's playing our team is not getting vaccinated they're they're not wearing masks and and we kind of have to base our decisions on what they're doing um and we are elected officials and they're ready for the mask mandate to go away now i absolutely if the whole world was like okay let's
 quarantine for two weeks, wear masks, this would be over. But that's not what they're doing. And we have to make our decisions based on what people are doing. And I think it's about time to go ahead and remove the mask mandate. Not because, I mean, I would love to save all the people in the nursing homes from COVID, but having this mask mandate isn't gonna really change the rates in the nursing homes.
 Placing the blame of some death in a nursing home or a hospital on us is kind of absurd. You know, this just isn't changing much. But our residents and citizens have spoken. They're ready to remove this. And I told you, like the NPR article says, if they don't believe we'll remove these, they're not going to believe us when it's time to bring it back.
 And just like Councilmember Turk said, she would bring it back if the cases go up. I would, too.
 I've now kind of voted for this multiple times and I voted against it multiple times and I'm will do that again based on on what's happening and I trust the rest of city council to do the same um but um our team is ready for this to be removed so hopefully we can go ahead uh remove it and and line up with that 23rd so thank you this is an ordinance it's on the first reading
 So what other discussion or action would the council like to take? I would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 And ordinance repeal ordinances 6465 and 6486 to end the mask mandate because new COVID-19 virus infections and hospitalizations have now been reduced. More vaccinations have been administered and vaccines are now authorized and available for all Americans five years old and older. And to set an effective date of December 23rd for this ordinance. I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Turke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 An ordinance to repeal ordinances 6465 and 6486 to end the mask mandate because new COVID-19 virus infections and hospitalizations have now been reduced. More vaccinations have been administered and vaccines are now authorized and available for all Americans five years old and older. And to set an effective date of December 13th as 23rd for this ordinance. Okay. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Okay, thank you all. So we have set the date to end the mask mandate on December the 23rd. And if the cases go up, then we will be back here looking at something else. So all right.
 Let's go on to number two, which is a resolution to adopt the 2022 Annual Budget and Work Program. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. We had a very productive meeting Saturday at the budget workshop. I'd like to add just a couple of key points of the 2022 budget recommendation before you. Total budget is up $19 million.
 Total operating budget is $190.7 million for 2022. The $19 million increase that the administration is requesting, $7 million of that is due to payroll. We want to retain positions.
 We also want to expand positions to meet demand. We haven't been able to do that in the last few years. And this is a point in time we feel we can do that. We're adding 24.3 positions to the budget. We also have to provide for the salaries that we have given this year. There's a million dollars in a general fund for potential salaries next year. That's going to be based on the salary survey that's in process right now.
 One of the good things in the increase of the budget is $4 million is an increase in debt service. That means we're going to be paying off the 2019 sales tax bonds faster because it's committed to that. One of the new programs that we're presenting, as we have discussed at the council, been looking at, had input on, is a arts and culture
 coordinator and program. That's something we've discussed many times. It's input we've had before, both from the City Council, the Arts Council also. So that's something we have been considering coming forward with. Because of the new increase, and most of this increase is being paid by increases in sales taxes, and some of the other sources of income are coming back, franchise fees,
 parks, program fees, et cetera. But some of the capital things we've been able to do and add to recommend is one, $1 million for additional sidewalks. Sidewalks is a program we hear from council, we hear from the citizens that we feel we need more money, if available, for sidewalks.
 This is driven by, again, sales tax basically plus motor fuel tax, etc. that we receive from the state on a state turn back. Some of the other capital improvements that we have requested. Repair to the Town Branch Bridge, which has structural problems. We want to address that.
 We're increasing the trails program back to the level that we have always funded. We had to pull back a little bit because I felt that revenues were going to decrease in 2021. Fortunately, they have not. Also, we've asked for an increase for the tree canopy. $100,000 brought forward in the tree canopy, fully supported and recommended by the mayor. We've also looked at allocating $100,000 to look at environmental issues and
 began to look at a master plan for environmental conditions and resilience. Sales tax increases have been very strong, and they have been driven by internet sales tax, which came along at the right time.
 and also the increase in the population. That's why I'm convinced that the administration is recommending these increases because I feel that those are factored in. However, going forward in the next year, I'm only recommending a 2% increase over what my expectation for our revenues will be this year. Again, 2%, I know I sound like a broken record, but
 When you listen to all the normal forecasts coming from Washington, DC and elsewhere, they're talking about increases between a percent and a half and 3 and 1 half percent. So we're seeing sales tax go up along with the other increases. Now, what are key objectives and the key points that the mayor has indicated that we're addressing is new positions.
 to address the increased demand. New positions to maintain parks. New positions to help maintain streets and street right-of-way. New positions in police. New positions in fire. And the positions in fire are going to be paid for by reductions in overtime. We're also adding a position for code enforcement. We're also adding a position for engineering to better monitor the progress.
 We're addressing with new positions. We're attempting to have some funds available for salary increases in the new year. This is one of the first times we've been able to address that in the operating budget presented to you. We have to maintain competitive wages and attempt to retain our personnel. One of the absolute mayor's number one priorities, and I know it's your priority too. So those are some of the key objectives.
 People ask me, and I'll just go over a couple of the things we do need to look at. I think we have a very flexible plan. I think it's conservatively based. We have to be prepared for inflation. We're seeing inflation hit. One month alone, inflation was up 6%. We've got to be prepared to address that.
 We also have to watch the supply chains. Supply chains are having difficulty at this point in time. That's going to be reflected in increasing prices and also may affect some of the revenue that we're looking at. We think we're flexible to change and accommodate
 the budget if we have to at that point in time i feel we have sufficient reserves to address these issues if we face them and with that uh i'll be happy to answer any questions okay what questions do we have paul on the budget pretty good session on saturday all right a public comment do we have on the budget everybody gets
 One turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segment of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those that are in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one on Zoom has raised their hand. Okay. Who would like to address us that is in the chamber? I have one sign up from Sarah Moore. Okay. Go ahead, Sarah. Okay.
 Good evening, Mayor. Can you hear me okay? Yes, I can. My name is Sarah Moore. I live in Ward 2. And I'm coming to address the City Council this evening just about the budget process and a few questions in regard to process.
 I've been following very closely what goes on as a member and co-founder of the Arkansas Justice Forum Coalition in the dealings of the city council over the last several years, and closely the last couple of years about the budget process.
 I wanted to bring forward a few concerns about the process and hope going forward we can address these, but also I'd love to hear feedback on ways that we can get community involvement and we can hear from some of our more vulnerable and especially during the pandemic impacted communities and how they need the budget to address the needs that exist in the community that ultimately when we're meeting the needs.
 of those in extreme poverty and under extreme stress actually create a much more vibrant and safer community.
 I wanted to tell you a few statistics. One of the things happening, and I heard mentioned when Mr. Becker, and I really respect him and appreciate all his work he does with the city and with the budget and learn a lot from what he puts together, is that over the last three or four years, we wanted to meet demand. And so we've had this opportunity with these additional revenues. And this is a decision not being made lightly, and it didn't happen quickly. But what's really happened over the last 18 months to two years
 is that the world has really changed for a lot of our population in Fayetteville and across the state of Arkansas. Folks that were, you know, Alice, if anybody is familiar with us at Limited Individuals, folks are falling even out of Alice that we're servicing. In South Fayetteville where we have a food pantry, we've seen food insecurity increase by 650 percent today versus March of 2020. And so because of that, you know,
 It's really great to have parks and those services like sidewalks. I absolutely agree. However, I see increases in different parts of our budget, like when you look at police, spending an increase of 12% versus last year. And I look at the community services area and there's a 5% increase. And have to wonder, investing in people, investing our resources in the things that we can point to people actually makes
 and all these 90,000 residents that are here in the community. And I'm concerned that sometimes some of our services that we hear from when we do the surveys and people are able to show up in these spaces is the few. It's the few thousand that show up when we have a special election tax. It's the few folks that get to show up in the room and have access to, you know, have internet access to do the surveys.
 I know our youth have been struggling. Mental health is incredibly stressed for students. I think the national numbers have been about 80% of students have been impacted. When we had a conversation last year about school resource officers, there was some conversation about the city potentially stepping up with a partnership with the schools with social workers and case managers. And I don't know where that's gone. And I think the budget process is a great place to do that.
 Additionally, we obviously have the American Rescue Plan monies and I would love to see there be a transparent and community conversation around that. Our organization has spent time in Fayetteville for the last three months talking to the community at farmers markets. We've put on cookout events. We've gone throughout Washington County. And I will tell you that folks are really struggling and needing direct household assistance and meeting basic needs met.
 case management skills. There are community violence programs that can be put in place. And as part of our budget, that ultimately are outside of the scope and the bounds of what we're budgeting for today, but actually have huge return on investment for our community. So I'm not sure. The budget came out on November 8th.
 there was a workshop on this saturday and then here's the 16th so eight days later we're looking to approve this budget um i don't know when community input except for showing up tonight when we're able to pause and have that meaningful conversation with the community on what we possibly want to look for but this investment of 20 headcount that's taken us years to get to and this you know three or four year endeavor to get to these
 these increases. So I would ask tonight if there's a way that we can pause and we can look at how we can get some community feedback on this budget before we move forward. I know we need a budget passed before the end of this calendar year, but I would ask that we pause and we look at besides just surveys, how do we get into the community? How do we get into each ward? How do we potentially break bread with our community members and have these conversations? Everywhere I go into the pockets of the community where I've
 I've learned something new. And I think it's really would be beneficial as we plan for 2022 for us to do that. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Nobody else in the room? Yeah. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Mayor Jordan.
 I spoke with Quinn Childers, who is president of the board of directors of the YRCC. And this is concerning a budget adjustment and a request for $45,000 to be allocated to staffing for the YRCC. And this funding, of course, will...
 We'll go towards the following staffing positions. A recreation program assistant, part-time 24 hours per week at $17,200 per year.
 This will allow the YRCC to offer teen programming. It will also allow them the opportunity to serve underserved communities to pick up more kids and to drop them back off and to coordinate events. They're also looking at three recreation program assistant positions all part-time. One is 22.5 hours per week, $11,880 per year.
 The other two, of course, again, are part-time, both 15 hours per week at $7,920 per year. And again, this totals $45,000. This will allow the YRCC to replace the current volunteers
 who they are dependent upon in order for them to execute the programs that the board pays for. By doing this, it will create a foundation for the kids that they serve because relying on volunteers the way that they have been doing has created higher turnover for staffing at the YRCC. By...
 By passing this or by granting this, this will allow the YRCC to serve teenagers. This will allow them to have 75 more attendees at the minimum and serve an extra of 300 attendees per month. Paul, do you want to address any of that or what do you want to do?
 While Paul's coming to the microphone, I'll just say that I've been working with Quinn Childress to identify how the planning from the Friends of YRCC would result in a request that would have substantial research behind it. And I'm just a little surprised that it's come out right now because we don't quite yet have that plan. And I want to continue working with Quinn on this project. So that's just what I have to say about it.
 Well, again, to reinforce what Susan said, to address DeAndre's amendment, if he's making an amendment, we've talked about that and talked about looking at expanding the activities at the Yvonne Richardson Center. If I understand what Susan is saying, at this point in time, right now we don't have the capacity, something we're looking at.
 Right now it's a capacity issue. Now if he wishes to make an amendment for $45,000 to the budget, then the question is, where would we take it from? Our choices are, we even take it from an existing program or take it from reserves. So that would be the choice, but my response is,
 to Susan. And we have discussed this. And we talked to DeAndre about this a bit. That at this point, it's something we're looking at, not prepared to do because of capacity. So that would be my response at this point in time. And if there's anything else, I'll be happy to answer it. OK.
 I'm just wanting to know if Quinn, I think he's available and I did tell him that it would, that it would be nice if a representative from the YRCC board of directors, if they can provide more detail and the, and the real need for,
 for this and based on what I said, I'm sure that they have other information that they can provide. And I think Quinn is, he may be online tonight, but I think that they can provide some, I guess better support as it relates to why this is needed. Quinn is here, if the council would like to hear from Quinn.
 Hi everyone, my name is Quinn Childress. Thank you for having me. Appreciate you all having me here. So I guess I should start by, how long do I have? You have five minutes. Five minutes, okay. So I guess I should start by sharing about the importance of the YRCC, why this is the golden child of the City of Fayetteville and what it's done. So I'm from the City of Fayetteville. I came here at seven years old.
 I had a mother who abused me at home. I'm allergic to peanut butter, she sprayed it all in my face, inside my mouth, and that was my wake up call. She would wake me up in the middle of the night and she would whip me at Willow Heights at the staircase and she would throw away my toys at Christmas and then she kicks me out at 15 years old. So in between that time,
 I had to have some kind of support because the people that was staying right next door to me, they were getting molested. These people over here were stealing. This was at Willow Heights right next to the Yvonne Richardson Center. So where did I have to go? That's the place I had to go. To establish my structure, to have that responsibility, to have that accountability to the staff that supported me during that time.
 And then I had my parents who ended up adopting me, Tanya Childress and Henry Childress. And so that being said, at 18 years old, I came back to the board and I wanted to serve because I understood the importance of that. And in between this time, the people that grew up in that neighborhood ended up committing suicide. Kids from my neighborhood committed murder. And they were just little babies.
 So I just want to express to you all how how serious it is to make this decision to expand more staffing, because problem is, is that we as a board, I mean, we donated twenty six thousand dollars at the beginning of the year that the city council approved and.
 they can't drive the band because they don't have enough staffing. And so if they can't drive the band because they don't have enough staffing, then how does the board have confidence to continue to support the programs because programs that were paying $18,000 for the entire summer fund for kids
 Well, they're relying on volunteers for our programs. And so volunteers, they may come, they may not. Who knows? So that being said, this has actually been an issue for the last 10 years. And we do need that staffing. And so in this replacement of asking $45,000 for the entire year.
 I would just ask the city council to really consider this because what we can do is we can then have people drive them in. We can have more teenagers, we can start affecting that population and start steering people in the right direction. Because in my situation I was starting to get into gang violence, I was starting to steal, I was starting to go in that direction. But then from that support system through the Yvonne Richardson Center, that system right there led me to this position standing right in front of you all today.
 So, you know, and I was sitting here about a month ago, and I know the city council is willing to donate $153,000 per month to test for COVID and for their employees. So I'm just asking for 45,000 for the year to help take kids off the street, bring them to the community center, connect with their desire, and then bring them to be on the city council to show them that they can be the mayor
 That's what I'm trying to do. That's all I'm asking for. And, you know, I think that's the right priorities. So, you know, with my own testament, I know that this works. We have a plan set in place. If we continue going on the way that we have with the structure, you're just, what you're going to see is you're going to see a high turnover rate, which we have proof of that. Our director left and then our assistant director left. And then we just, we just, just
 We're just trying to figure out what we're going to do. So the board doesn't have the confidence for these programs to be executed with the current volunteers that are executing these programs. And I even have statistics of us donating a lot of money in 2019 to execute the fall programming, and there was over 700 hours of volunteer. If you like statistics, I mean, that shows that there is a huge need for staff.
 So that all being said, I'm looking to execute this right now. I'm not looking to wait next year, 10 years from now. This has been a problem for the last 10 years. So I just ask the city council to just give us $45,000 for the year.
 So, Mayor, I would like to add that I learned that, thank you, Quinn, our new YRCC staff, we just hired a vacancy today. So what Quinn's talking about is it's a reality that we have some staffing turnover, but I think we're getting back on the solid. Quinn, I think you've had your five minutes.
 So we're getting back on solid ground. We got a relatively new YRCC director. Of course, we have our new parks director who just started a week ago Monday and the new position that just got filled today that has been vacant. So what we'd like to do is make sure that we have a solid plan moving forward before we ask for additional staffing. And that's what I like to work with Quinn on.
 because I know he's got goals and visions for the Friends of YRCC and the programs that they want to set. And as soon as we have a very solid plan that staff is recommending to the administration, we'll be happy to bring that. And I don't think it'll be 10 years, Quinn. I think we'll be able to work something out this year. I can't support the request right now because I don't know exactly what 
 it how it would be managed and how it would work so I'd love to continue to work on those details with Quinn well I think I have we have a council member that's asked for an amendment to the budget forty five thousand dollars that correct yes that's correct yes and
 I would like to say thank you, Quinn, and thank you, Susan. And yes, we, Susan and I did talk about this. Paul and I had a little conversation about this as well. When I, and it hasn't just been Quinn, numerous people in the community, I think Sarah Moore,
 kind of describe some of the issues that we are seeing, especially in Ward 1. And we all know that Ward 1 is where the YRCC is located. And so I believe that if we're able to create programming to kind of interrupt some of the challenges that a lot of our young students
 people are facing, then I think that we must start with the YRCC. And so I appreciate Quinn's transparency and I appreciate his persistence. And I just know that right now we have a, there is a great opportunity for us to again interrupt and prevent some of the challenges that a lot of our young people are facing. We
 Quinn told us what he's dealt with, and I know several other families and children who are dealing with some of the very same issues. And so I think that if we're able to create a invest in our children by investing in YRCC, I think that we must do that sooner rather than later. So if we are going to look at doing that,
 I would like to see us move on it as quickly as possible. And I think that the board can identify some plans and a solid plan and details that definitely support $45,000. It was very troubling for me to hear Queen saying that this has been going on for the last 10 years. I served on the Y team.
 CC board, I think maybe like seven or eight years ago. And I do remember some of these details. However, again, it's not just Quinn. It's been numerous individuals have been coming to me with the same concern, wanting their children to be involved, but not having the space and not having the transportation and not having the programs to accommodate our most vulnerable.
 I would like to request a couple more minutes for Quinn to respond to Susan if that's okay. Oh, that's fine. Yeah. I don't believe this item, the actual budget is going to get passed tonight.
 I feel like this should be discussed outside of here and then brought back. This is like 0.002% of the budget. There are many, many organizations and groups that have asked for money and they've gone through kind of the channels and we have one that is kind of superseding that. I think the need is great. I've met with Quinn, I agree with that, but I'm hoping that,
 we can kind of package this off and bring it back in two weeks. Oh yeah, you have until the end of December to pass the budget. I mean, it's before you now, but the council has until the end of December. But we do have to pass the budget by the end of December or we don't function.
 So I want to make that clear to the council. So whatever requests that you do have, which I would hope that some of these requests had come out this last weekend, but it's fine now also. So I just need to know what you all want to do and what amendments you'd like to make. But we do have to pass the budget by the end of December.
 You know, I agree with Sloan on, you know, I didn't expect the budget to pass tonight either, you know, because there's a lot of, there's usually something that comes out that someone wants to discuss. But I think that, you know, I kind of agree with Sloan. I need a little more time to think about this request. And, you know, if I want to do this, because we do have lots of organizations that
 that fill a very vital role in our community. And they all want money. Everybody wants money, you know. So where do we place it? We only have so much to, there's only so much pie to go around, I guess. So I need a little more time to think about this. Oh, sure. I mean, I'm not in any, I mean, we don't pass the budget a lot of times until the second,
 Pass a lot of budgets on that at the end of the December meeting I'm just saying we do need to pass it by the end of December. So y'all got three more meetings mayor, I think Council member Holly Hertzberg asked for unanimous consent for this speaker to have a couple more minutes Yeah, sure. Go ahead unless somebody objects. He should be able to speak Sorry about that. Sorry so
 So yes, they did just hire the assistant director and they just, the city council just passed a, I believe it was a .6 employee, but that's not enough and I say that because we're still dependent on volunteers and if we're dependent on volunteers, as I saw this summer once again,
 With us, depending on volunteers, you're just going to see the structure crumble to where you're putting more work on these people. And yes, because y'all did pass, it's a little less work, but there's still a lot of stress, more work than what is expected of them, and they're going above and beyond their expectation and what they're getting paid for.
 And so, you know, actually being, going to the underserved communities, looking at these kids in their eyes, because the YRCC just got a million dollar bond that just passed. And we need that structure in place prior to the expansion of the YRCC so everyone's ready to roll this out as well. But going into these underserved communities and looking at these kids' eyes, I'm telling you, if you actually are, if you're actually going into these underserved, if you're going into these underserved communities,
 and you're seeing what I'm seeing, then you would understand how important this is. If you understood the story, the impact that the YRCC has, this is what makes it different than the Boys and Girls Club and to the AAO. I'm not saying that our organization is better than anyone. I'm saying that we're not going to duplicate what other organizations are doing. What we're doing is we're working together in collaboration.
 But this is the haven spot for kids who need a place to go to when their mom kicks them out. And that's the place that that's for. And I can say that with conviction because that was for me. And because of that, that's why I'm standing here once again. And so that being said, yes, they did. There are new employees. But we are still lacking staffing to go and drive the van to these kids to go pick them up.
 I know these kids. I was there. I know this because we had the survey that was distributed out for the expansion of the YRCC. So that's what I would have to say about that is, yes, we are progressing towards that and things don't get done overnight and I do understand that. But this has been a 10-year request and so when are we going to pull this trigger? Especially with the YRCC expanding, you know, I hear this
 And I hear what you're saying, Ms. Susan. I know it's not going to be 10 years, but this has actually been going on for 10 years already. So when are we going to pull that trigger? Because when we're able to pull this trigger, then we can go get more kids, we can bring them to the center, we can do more collaborations with Ms. Monique Jones, Ms. Sarah Moore over there. We can do these more collaborations. We have it all drawn out, but we need the support from the City of Fayetteville because it's the City of Fayetteville's building.
 Okay, I think what I heard from the council is they're not probably going to pass the budget tonight. So there's three weeks before the next city council meeting. And so I would suggest that you talk with the chief of staff and the finance director or or have DeAndre talk with them. And then possibly at the next city council meeting, this issue can be resolved if if then but anyway, I think there is a little bit of time for you to consult. Okay.
 I would like to know how much we're actually already putting in, because it seems like it's being presented, you know, that the city isn't putting any money into this, which I know isn't true. But, you know, what is staff costs now? What has the city been putting in, you know, over the last 10 years? That would be useful information. There are a lot of organizations that deal with the cost.
 the challenged community. You know, we just finished kind of a new homeless shelter and you know, where is $50,000 better place? Is it a better place here or better place somewhere else? This isn't in a bubble by itself. You know, we've only got so many dollars and where's the best place to spend it?
 So I will make sure we work on presenting that information to you all so you have a history of where the YRCC has been and where it's headed and then a timeline for that YRCC expansion project which definitely will have programmatic implications. So we're all gearing up to wanting to have a clear vision with the goals set for that new expansion.
 Also, with the new director on board, Allison Jumper mentioned that she'll be reaching out to you, Quinn, and working on some of those goals and objectives. So we'll have a clearer picture for you in three weeks. But at this time, I feel that it might take a little bit longer than that to have a, you
 a managing a management plan in place that can have the impact that Quinn would like to have and I also need to get with the finance director because I'm not sure $45,000 for what council member Jones mentioned is actually the the overall budget there would probably be some benefits and other types of things that I don't know are included in that figure so we have some analysis to do
 So I guess what I'm hearing here is that you all need some more input from the City Council. I thought that you had discussions with the City Council. Isn't that correct? I'm saying I need input from current management. Well, in all fairness...
 DeAndre and I had a very brief discussion. We didn't really get into specifics at the point of time. That was the first I had heard directly. Normally my requests come through the departments because they analyze the programs and whether or not they can provide the best
 they can make the request. So from my perspective as a finance person, I can't speak to whether or not we can actually perform these. So we did talk very, very briefly. We didn't really talk about specifics. I know it was something that the
 that the chief of staff had talked about, but I guess there were no specifics at that point in time. So I think what can take place, what needs to take place, is we'll talk about the specifics. We'll talk more or less about what increasing the program to that level would be and have a little better handle on it at the next meeting.
 all right uh can someone help me understand the relationship between the city of fayetteville and the wire cc board of directors i think i'm i and i should know this but i just want to be clear i know quinn mentioned that the board had given the city some money and so i'm not i i don't know quite the role that
 The the board and the city what role do they how do they work together? Thank you DeAndre councilmember Jones So the friends of the wire CC is a board that is independent. It's a non-profit an independent board So it's not a city spawn or a city
 appointed border commission and over the years and I've only been involved in researching this in the last year as chief of staff but over the years it's my understanding that the city property itself the YRCC was once originally funded by a certain group and then the city and this is the part of the history I need to get back to you I've shared some documentation with a few council members who've asked me and the
 Parks director can help us with this but over the years in the last 20 almost 30 years the facility itself then was taken over by the city as a Facility that should be operated by the city so all the current staffing are funded through the regular parks budgeting process and and right now the Friends of OIRCC has contributed to
 thankfully, several different opportunities for programming at the center and I know last two years ago perhaps it was with the
 the current chair Laura Underwood who the fundraising effort was to provide a computer lab and I know that when mentioned the the contribution for the van so there are very real and tangible and very welcome support that comes from the Friends of the YRCC we appreciate that relationship it's just a little unique and I suggested to Quinn that we might work on in addition to
 clearly articulating the staffing and what it might can accomplish toward the goals that I believe are very real we might also work on a memorandum of understanding so that we have it very clearly articulated not between now and three weeks from now with with respect to the budget but we do have to identify specific roles and the relationship between the friends of and the city operations
 Does that answer your question, Councilmember Jackson? It does, Susan. It does. And thank you so much. And Susan and Quinn, is it possible that we can look at maybe a timeline? Because again, I've heard this from various members of the community. And so it's not just my conversation with Quinn, but I've heard this over some time now. And so this is very important to me because I'm hoping that it's very important to Fayetteville as well.
 I know that I've heard that we help other groups, and that's great, but I don't want to look at that in terms of, well, we've helped them, so we can't help them. I don't want to see it from that perspective. I do know that...
 the YRC see that those kids and those families in South Fayetteville, that they definitely need support. And a lot of the kids, uh, those families who went, they benefit from the food pantry. They benefit from, from these other, um, uh,
 they have benefited from these other groups as well and from these other opportunities as well. And so I'm just wanting to make sure that we're also able to provide them the same type of space and the same type of service with YRCC. Understood. We'll report back as we can develop some context for you all. Anything else? Okay, let's move on to the next one then.
 what public input on the budget oh i'm very sorry i thought we took public input we took public well i know but you didn't close it it it came up i'm sorry we had we've had a hand raised over here on zoom so i'm not sure how you want to handle that well i thought i brought it back to the council but obviously i did well maybe let's just open it up for public comment again well who do you have on zoom lance reed okay go ahead lance lance if you're there you want to unmute
 Well, perhaps we've lost Lance. Okay. Sorry, Mayor. Who else do you have? Nobody. Okay. Is there anybody else in the chamber who would like to address this on this? Okay. I will close it to public comment then and we will move on. Is there anything else the council wants to discuss on the budget before we move on? Since this is a resolution, they need to table it to the next meeting. Oh, yeah, that's true. So we'll have to table it for two weeks. I move we table this for two weeks. All right. Second. Three weeks. December 7th. Three weeks.
 I have a second. Mark? Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to table for two weeks. Kerwood, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay. Let's move on to number three.
 An ordinance to annex that property described in annexation petition ANX 21-003 submitted by Roush Coleman Homes Incorporated for property located south of 2936 South Black Oak Road containing approximately 101.77 acres. Kit? Whereas Roush Coleman Homes Incorporated...
 has properly secured the Washington County judge's authorization to annex 101.77 acres located south of 2936 South Black Oak Road into the city of Fayetteville. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby confirms the annexation to the City of Fayetteville Arkansas of about 101.77 acres as described in Exhibit B and the map as shown on Exhibit A both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo. Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby zones the newly annexed property RA
 Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official map and zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to recognize this annexation. And Section 4 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby assigns this 101.77 acres to Ward 1 of the City of Fayetteville. Okay. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. Before beginning, I would like to remind the council and state for those listening or in attendance in the chambers that this item and the next one on the agenda are related to the same property. So there may be some things that I don't repeat twice, but I'm happy to go into them as many times as necessary.
 With that, this property is in southeast Fayetteville, as you can see indicated here in red. It is just south of the city's Commerce Park, where Armstrong Avenue transitions into Black Oak Road. Transitioning to a little bit more tight view of the property, it includes four parcels totaling almost 102 acres.
 It is bordered to the north by the former Superior Automotive Facility, to the east by the West Fork of the White River, to the south by unincorporated, undeveloped county land, and to the west by Black Oak Road. As you can see in the aerial here, the property is undeveloped and split fairly evenly between a tree canopy and a property used as pasture.
 The request before the council tonight is to annex the entirety of the property into the city limits of Fayetteville. Fayetteville's adopted land use plan, City Plan 2040, does include several principles under which staff and appointed positions and elected officials can evaluate an annexation request.
 This is broken into six areas, of which five most directly relate to subject property. The sixth one, which talks about coordinating between adjoining municipalities, I'm not going to discuss tonight because there is no adjoining municipality in this area. It is all unincorporated Washington County land about as far south as you can get from here.
 So jumping right in, first is regarding boundaries.
 The property or the principles that discuss boundaries encourage or require the property to be contiguous with our existing city limits. Encourage an annexation to not create a division, neighborhoods or properties to follow natural corridors and not create peninsulas or islands of unincorporated land that can have the potential to hamper the provision of services. Staff finds that this request largely meets this standard.
 uh it's certainly why you take a close uh view of the property overall it does look like it's creating a peninsula jutting out the county uh staff did look at it from a wider perspective if you look at the whole southeast portion of the city uh annexing this piece of property does have the opera or does forward the opportunity of squaring off this portion of the city limits so with that we do consider that principle to be met with this request
 Regarding environmentally sensitive areas, this property clearly has some. I did mention the tree canopy leading off, but that's certainly one of many. As you can see here, I'll describe what you're looking at because it does look a little bit confusing. The hazy white area is the property being considered tonight. The hatched red and blue area is the floodway associated with the West Fork and the White River. The light blue and orange are the floodplains associated with that river.
 Additionally, which isn't particularly visible on this map is that this property does include a tributary to the West Fork of the White River. As it sits in the county, it's not subject to any particular protections, but if it were annexed into the city, it would be subject to our streamside protection standards.
 Also, if you look at the darker blue, perhaps more royal purple portion of the property on the western side, these do represent areas of hydric soils. While these do not inherently mean that there are wetlands, it can be an indicator. And so when the land like this is developed, it's subject to a higher degree of scrutiny and documentation is necessary to show whether it is or is not indeed wetland.
 And lastly, and interestingly, this was brought to my attention through administration from a council member, the upstream limit of the low flow impoundment area associated with the pump station dam actually terminates about the midpoint on the eastern side of this property. So it certainly is, like I said, has some sensitive natural areas that merit consideration in possibly annexing the property.
 for emergency and public services. The property would by and large be better served in the city than outside of it. There is a fire station in Fayetteville at Hapkabee Hollow Road. It's within two miles of this property. There's currently a response agreement with the county, which is a Round Mountain Volunteer Fire Department, which is almost eight miles away, where the city does provide some services in the events of more catastrophic events, structural fires and such.
 um uh similarly we the property is more red or fairly readily served by some other city services like solid waste and recycling which is further north along armstrong road and we've not received any comments from the police department with concerns uh to this point in the proposal
 On the topic of infrastructure, our principles in City Plan 2040 do recommend annexing areas that are already served. Naturally, this cannot be as straightforward as would make life easiest.
 It is served by water. An eight-inch line does run along Black Oak Road. That is the base line necessary to, or that's the standard size water line that the city installs around the city, or around the incorporated portions of the city. So it does have a significant amount of capacity and ability to provide pressure without necessarily being needed to be upgraded.
 Conversely, however, there is not sanitary sewer access to this property. A sewer extension would be required just a little bit further north once you get into the city. There is a sanitary main that's existing, but that would have to be extended to the property. The last main guiding principle I'm going to discuss is that of administration.
 This includes a review of available services and utilities, which you've just heard. It recommends that the annexation request be accompanied by a concurrent rezoning request, which is the next item here. There's a residential planned zoning district proposal in line behind this on the agenda. Thank you.
 It also includes public notification, which did occur before the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission ordinances do require public hearings to assign postings and mailings to all adjacent residents and property owners, similar to what would be required within the
 And lastly, is a fiscal impact analysis in instances of large annexations. Until recent history, a property of 1,800 acres had not or did not really constitute a large annexation. Accordingly, staff did not perform a fiscal impact analysis at this point. But I do certainly recognize that council has periodically requested these from time to time. And it is something I believe staff could put together if need be.
 That said, I thought it also might be valuable to remind the council some of the differences between county and city development standards. I know this was requested with
 One of the more recent annexation requests on the northeast part of town. There are quite a bit higher standards. I described some of those. I'm talking about the environmentally sensitive portions of the property. The city, of course, has a streamside protection ordinance, which limits development in close proximity to protected streams.
 There are stormwater water quality standards that are not up to the same level or are up to a higher level than what's required in the county.
 of course we have our tree preservation standards I'll get into this more in the PZD but a planned zoning district does have a 25% minimum tree preservation canopy which is among the highest in the city and if the property were to be developed of course development city is subject to several adopted codes including our building codes energy codes landscaping standards and
 and subdivision standards. The county assembly does not have that same degree of requirements. And also without council permission, the property would not be able to connect to the city's sanitary sewer system. With all that said, staff in the planning commission do recommend approval of the request. This was forwarded to the city council by the planning commission by a vote of eight to one.
 You will see some of the same comments from the commissioners between both these items. They elected to hear both of them at the exact same time, so I tried to extract ones that related to each part of it, but it's not easy to do. Those favoring the request, they supported the idea of the property being subject to the city standards.
 They recognize that there are a significant number of large employers immediately to the north in the Commerce Park, and they were surprised when they visited the property how close it was from their perspective to the downtown area.
 The commissioner who was opposed noted that it had a low infill rating, which I'll go into more with the planned zoning district side of the request. But just as a preview of that, it does range from zero to three, depending where you look on the property. And they also had concerns about distance from non-employment services, with the nearest school being Happy Hollow.
 on crossover and nearest grocery stores being, or being the Walmart neighborhood market along MLK and the grocery stores up at Mission Crossover. Lastly, in terms of public comment,
 There was some heard at the Planning Commission. Some were representatives of the sellers of the property. They favored the request, felt it represented an opportunity for attainable housing near jobs. We did receive inquiries about the request from another resident, or from a resident, but no statement of opposition or support.
 And I believe the council received some additional comments from the descending planning commissioner this afternoon, who again, I think that describes some of what I just did in the, as far as the property being distant from some services.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions you may have. And I believe Jesse Fulcher is here either in person or virtually as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Okay, as an applicant, I'd like to speak for the council. You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mayor, members of the council, Jesse Fulcher with Roscoe and Holmes. Appreciate your time tonight. I will say that the annexation by itself without the PZD is not very exciting. I'll try to make it exciting with a little bit of detail.
 I think the one descending planning commissioner in our two meetings, I think was really held up on the infill score and the level of metrics in that infill program that is part of city plan. That concerned me a little bit only because that can be the overriding deciding factor when we look at development annexations, rezonings, does it meet standard one of city plan regardless
 regardless of it meets the other five. And I felt like it's a little bit weighted. Infill is to be encouraged, and the city's done a great job of that over the last 20 years. I mean, that's why we have so many new zoning districts. We have neighborhood plans. We've implemented these zoning classifications. That's why we have lots of housing in uptown Fayetteville now that we didn't used to and that zoning wouldn't have allowed. So we've encouraged infill housing, particularly downtown and in some of our older neighborhoods. But
 That can't be the only way that we provide new development in housing in the City of Fayetteville. It simply won't meet demand, and more importantly, it won't meet the price point of the average citizen that lives in Fayetteville or would choose to live in Fayetteville. Everyone knows what the pricing is for new units downtown. They're not attainable for most any of us, probably none of us in this room. So that can't be the overriding goal above all other things, but it's certainly something that should be encouraged.
 And the fact is, the commission was correct when they visited the site. It is close to downtown. It's about six minutes by car. It's a very easy drive down there. It's adjacent to probably thousands of jobs, and what I've been told by the city is another 600 are going to move into a building adjacent to this property soon.
 And in fact, if you look in city plan 2040, one of the comments is that existing single-use business district should be expanded to include a mix of residential, retail, open space, and civic uses.
 single-use districts, which is what Uptown used to be and what Commerce Park is today and other ones that we could identify, where we need to bring in other uses to complement the businesses or residences that already exist there to make these more of a one-stop location within a city, a district of its own. And so that's what we hope to do. We hope that people that are looking for a hopefully attainable, attainably priced home, which is our target with thousands of jobs, for people that are probably looking for that
 price point in a home instead of leaving the Commerce Park District as I passed them today in the droves probably on a shift change that maybe they're just walking over to their neighborhood and so that's our hopes with this annexation
 Beyond it being close to the downtown Really this boundary this section of the city annexation liner or city limits line hasn't moved in 40 or 50 years So that's there's been no movement or growth in this area Which is why it is still so close to the city versus moving out west when you annex You're a long way from the core of the city and the services So we do feel it's a very appropriate request for an annexation and hope for your support. Thank you Thank you
 Okay, what questions do we have from the council to the staff or the applicant? Mayor, I have a few questions. Sure.
 Jonathan, maybe I could start with you. You noted that there was water that was serving that area. I'm assuming that we're taking the annexation and the PZD together, kind of because they're sort of bunched together and that's what the applicant is requesting. And so if the PZD was, if the rezoning was approved, would the water line be required to be upsized?
 And I would also ask the same thing about the sewer line that would have to be extended. Would we have to put a much bigger pipe in there for both water and for the existing sewer system?
 I don't our utility department has not evaluated the specifics of the request in terms of sanitary I do know the eight inch line when our engineering division looked at it with the Peter the annexation But it does have quite a bit of capacity again That eight inch size is typically more than enough to support the volume for a project like this but also the pressure for things like fire hydrants, which are critical and
 Okay, thank you, but we don't know about sewer yet. Okay. Could we find that out? Could we by next meeting? That would be really helpful to know because I'm on the Water and Sewer Committee and we have a lot of requests like this that sometimes surprise us. So it would be helpful to know that. My next question is really to the applicant, Mr. Felcher.
 Is there a, you know, you talked about this being really affordable. It would be helpful if you had the price point in your, that was being considered if you let us know what that might be. Certainly. Thank you, Councillor Tirk. It's, I'm not sure where to look at you, but I'm just going to leave it there for now. I discussed this with the Planning Commission, what's unfortunate right now in the market
 is that in 2018, Park Meadows 2, which is not too far from this site, at 15th and Morningside, I looked back because I wondered what we were selling houses for around 2018 before things got really crazy. And there were people buying houses from us for $164,000, a typical three-bedroom, two-bath. And that's not possible today. It's simply not. Land prices tend to be very expensive, but just materials, labor, land,
 and complications in construction in general are are driving prices up i think our most recent project that opened up there's nothing below two hundred thousand dollars anymore uh that's unfortunate but that's the reality of where we're at in our market so my best response to you right now would be 200 to 265 thousand dollars would be my guess wow okay thank you so much i appreciate it yes ma'am what other questions do we have in the council
 Okay, well let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. The people participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Jim Garlock. Okay, go ahead, Jim.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and I do appreciate all the city employees from the staffing department to the city council people for all their extra effort and long, long hours. I guess I object to this simply because it's the wrong time and the wrong place. If we look at the city's 2040 goal, we will discourage suburban sprawl.
 That's one point. Secondly, this does not meet or encourage the traditional town forum or the forum of a traditional town standard that's walkable. It's not creating a livable transportation network when the only road out to this place is through an industrial park. And then five of our city 2040 plan, we will assemble an enduring green network network.
 This is an environmentally sensitive area, and that's one of the most important things. But again, it does not meet four out of the six 2040 plan topics. The other one that's, I think, very questionable is number six, where we'll create opportunities for attainable housing.
 This really doesn't help with attainable housing when you factor in transportation costs. Unfortunately, you're going to have to have somebody drive you to the closest park. There's no sidewalk there. There's going to be bus to and from school, no walkability for any of that. There's no grocery store.
 They alluded to that I was a bad guy for wanting to have a good infill score. Well, that's part of one of the city's objective measures for determining whether something should be either up zoned or taken into the city. And I really think this should be a separate issue is, is this something the city wants to annex? Does this meet the city goals?
 And I put simply, no, it does not. If we want to talk about tier two and three centers, they have not been developing quite to the extent what we wanted. We're currently 90,000 people in the city of Fayetteville, and we have a goal of 140,000 by 2040 goal.
 And if we stick to the plan that has been set forth and approved by the city council of developing tier two and three centers, all we need to do is develop 20 of those tier two and three centers. And we're going to meet that additional 50,000 people by 2040.
 I do appreciate not only your time and the city council's time. This is actually a very pivotal issue when you think of enduring green network, you look at the city's 2040 plan and it's really important to factor that in. Secondly, if it is not in annexed, it's left to the county talking with the county,
 Washington County, and he's even calling to the state health department, the most they could build on this property is one unit per acre, 100 units. They could come back with a conditional use permit and ask for more.
 And again, then the city would be involved and would have really the final control over it. So really annexing it at this time is really premature, and it's premature to even look at an RPZ with the importance of the City 20 plan and creating sprawl.
 Thank you very much for the time to voice my concern. I do not live anywhere near this, but I'm trying to stick to the city's goals and look to the future of what it would be like out there driving through an urban industrial and driving through an industrial area.
 and then getting to home on the peripheral of the city, just like it's done on the west side where there's much sprawl. Thank you very much for your time and consideration. I would hope that you would deny this annexation. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? No one else on Zoom, Mayor, but I have four people who have signed up in the chambers. Okay. First, I have Melissa Lee
 Good evening Mr. Mayor, Councilmen and women. My name is Melissa Lee. I reside in Rogers. I'm here in a capacity as an attorney and executive broker and owner of NWA Real Estate Solutions with Keller Williams Realty. I represent the sellers of the South 51.2 acres of property.
 this property and I have basically three generalized comments in support of the annexation as well as the zoning. First of all to address the sprawl versus infill I think everyone can acknowledge that the subdivisions that have been previously approved that are east of the White River would could be considered as sprawl for the city of Fayetteville.
 This property is west of the White River. It is east of South City Lake Road. It is literally adjacent to the city's current southern boundary.
 And and from where I'm standing right now, it is 2.7 miles in a direct line. I cannot see that as sprawl and I can't see it as anything other than infill based upon what one of the planners was talking about is filling in that one area. So I cannot even fathom this as sprawl. One of the challenges with the environmentally sensitive areas, some of the comments, is
 Some of those areas are actually in a 30 plus acre portion that the applicant is looking to donate to the city of Fayetteville. So that's going to be managed by the city and Parks and Rec anyway. So I don't really see that as so much of a problem.
 The second item that I want to address is the city's 2040 plan. You know, when it was last updated, you know, you're looking at industrial or nature use for this particular property. And when that decision was made, no one really anticipated that we were having a global pandemic and resulting serious shortages of building materials.
 nor that we're going to have the kind of severe lack of affordable housing in your city. So you know the proposed development that the applicant is putting forward does address a lot of the nature and that's something he can certainly address better than I. But you know the fact that they're looking to donate more than 30 acres of the 101
 to the city would give the city much more control over any kind of environmental issue or concern. So, and the third thing I want to address is, you know, I'm also a realtor. I work full time in this business. I've got about 10 million in volume this year. So I sell a lot of real estate in northwest Arkansas.
 I ran some numbers for Fayetteville for affordable housing and the way I defined that was three bedroom two bath a house a townhouse or a condominium the square footage between 1200 and 2000 square feet and the price point was $275,000 or less and in the entire city of Fayetteville you have eight active listings and
 You have 4,000 realtors in northwest Arkansas and they have eight houses that they can possibly sell right now. So there's 101 pending. So that means a lot of those have been built mostly or they're being built so they're waiting for them to be finished.
 And then in the last 180 days you have 306 houses in that same category that have been sold in the City of Fayetteville. So I would address quickly the Park Meadows subdivision.
 Did pull that that data that um that Jesse spoke to? That is only a hundred excuse me a mile and a half from that property so that's only about 1.2 miles from here it's another rouse-collman development and
 The numbers on that, on the solds, the average was about 155 a square foot and those properties, the average price was about 216.
 The highest was 295. So they build affordable housing. And I really think that from a fiduciary perspective, your city has a distinct lack of affordable housing. And I think that should trump a lot of things. Time. Thank you. Thank you for your time.
 Next, we have Susan Young. Okay. Good evening, Mayor. Mayor, do I look at that camera if I want to look at the city councilors on the screen? No, it looks like you're going to be looking at me. I just got to look right at you? Well, city councilors, please know as I'm looking at the mayor, I'm looking at you all, too. Thank you for your stamina in...
 Wow, going through these city council meetings, it's really something and I appreciate you. My name is Susan Young. I live at 1147 Turner Avenue here in Fayetteville. Lived here all my life. I am here representing my brother Roger and I who own 51 acres or so of this 100 acre parcel that you're considering for annexation.
 So within that 50 acres that we own, Roger and I, we're the fifth generation among our Combs family to own a large parcel. This was a large tract of land back in the 1860s, which is how long the Combs family has owned this land. And I tell you that to help you understand that this means a lot.
 This land means a lot to our family. Each of those five generations have been faced with the question, what to do with it when we're gone. For my brother Roger and I, the decision is that we're ready to sell it. It's not an easy decision. If he was here, he would tell you how much he and I have fussed about this. There have been tears shed and...
 a lot of sleepless nights. I'm still not sleeping very well about this decision we've made, but what's given me peace of mind about this potential annexation and potential development is that it could be part of the city of Fayetteville because I trust the rules and the regulations, the criteria that your city staff person just outlined. That's what gives me peace of mind about letting this
 piece of land go out of the Combs family and on to other families who can build their family stories there. So I'm not asking you to vote for this for my peace of mind, but what I'm, what I would say to you is these things that are giving me peace of mind are the very legitimate reasons for you to vote for the annexation and then the subsequent, you know,
 development and I thank you thank you for your time and for all the work you do for the city of Fayetteville thank you Susan next we have Teresa Pockrus good evening ladies and gentlemen my name is Teresa Pockrus and I actually reside in Benton County but I am an attorney also and represent the trust that actually holds the title to the property that miss young was talking about
 And then I'm going to make comments both on, and I know Mayor you cautioned us to keep to the particular subject, but I would like to address my comments to both of the C3 and C4 that are on the agenda at the moment.
 And I'm going to take most of my comments from a recent editorial in the Northwest Arkansas Times, or the Northwest, it used to be the Times, it's now the Northwest Arkansas edition of the Arkansas Democrat Gazette. And I'm going to, and it was on Sunday, November the 12th. And it says, communities across the county, the country, communities across the country have experienced rapid growth
 that have experienced rapid growth have been known to become overheated so to speak causing unintended and unwanted consequences those can come for example in the form of unmanageable traffic congestion increased crime rates and seemingly out of control housing costs driven by high demand
 In recent years, the nonprofit business group, Northwest Arkansas Council, and others have increasingly articulated a concern that housing costs in this region are becoming problematic, particularly in the contents of attracting new residents to fill jobs.
 While those that own homes see the growth in prices as a boom, for those moving in or trying to purchase their homes, higher housing costs can become a serious barrier. In 2019, the Walton Family Foundation issued, quote, a call to action, noting, and in this article there are four things, but I'm only going to respond to two. Regional employers have started expanding their facilities in less costly areas, partly due to a limited supply of homes affordable to their workers in the region.
 And what I found to be the most astounding note is this. The Foundation's report predicted nearly 80,000 families would move to the region's four largest cities by 2040. Quote, by then to accommodate and continue to propel the region's growth approximately half.
 of new homes in northwest Arkansas must serve workforce households, that is, a family of four earning between $33,000 and $78,000 annually, and the lowest income households, a family of four earning less than $33,000, the foundation reported."
 And I will, and I also am a numbers person, so I took half of 80,000, which is 40,000, divided that by 20 years, which that means there needs to be approximately 2,000 homes per year in the area, or 167 per month. The proposal that the Roush-Hulman is proposing
 will build up to 250 homes. Plainly, people must have an affordable opportunity to put roofs over their head without making a choice between housing costs and other living necessities like food and clothing. Northwest Arkansas' housing affordability challenge won't be solved with just adding rental units.
 Home ownership still needs to be part of the American Arkansas dream, but it's that vital, but it's vital that the region not fall into the unfortunate condition of other growing metro areas where people who make good livings cannot afford a place to stay. Fayetteville has long, and these are my comments, now I've ended the recitation of the editorial.
 Fayetteville has long prided itself in being a diverse community, but without affordable housing, diversity will suffer. This project can be part of the solution to housing workforce households. A planned development like the one in front of the council tonight, in addition to annexation, is a good beginning and fits well into Fayetteville's 2040 vision of affordable housing. Therefore, as the trustee, I encourage the council to approve both of these proposals.
 ordinances. Thank you. Thank you. All right. One more. Leslie Belden. Hello, Mr. Mayor and City Council members. I'm Leslie Belden and I live at 504 East Lafayette Street in Fayetteville.
 I am one of the eight planning commissioners that voted to forward this to you and I do appreciate the planning commissioner who voted against it speaking to you so you can hear it in his own words how he felt about it. I've got five reasons that I voted to forward this to you and that I think that you should approve it. Number one, it is very close to downtown. I live near downtown and I always drive around to see all of the buildings.
 projects that were asked to look at. This one was so easy to get to compared to most of them. It's just right past the White River baseball complex, so there is a park nearby. I was really surprised that we haven't annexed that direction yet. My second reason is the Planning Commission, and I'm sure that you, have a very difficult time with rezoning requests out in West Fayetteville because quite frankly it's a mess.
 There's too much traffic congestion and what we're going to do with the residential is very difficult. We have the opportunity to do things right as we spread into this part of Fayetteville. Why we haven't grown that direction is beyond me, but they're asking for an RPZD, which is a much better way to plan.
 Number three, we need a critical mass of residents to encourage some commercial development on 15th that can service the other people that have been living in that area. We've got the new development on Morningside and 15th and this will add enough people so that our land that is zoned to be commercial, people will begin to build on it.
 Number four, this is as attainable as you can get. It's like every month it goes past, the prices go up and up. COVID has really done a number on our construction industry. So we need attainable housing.
 You're not going to get it any cheaper at any time unless by some miracle prices start to go down in construction materials. And number five, this is an environmentally sensitive area. We were looking at a project that was in northeast Fayetteville that was going to drain into Lake Fayetteville and we were trying so hard to be careful in planning for that.
 probably even more sensitive because the White River goes into our drinking water in Beaver Lake. So every time that we have an opportunity to protect that water source, I think that we should do it. So I encourage you to approve this and also the RPCD. Thank you, Leslie. Who else, Susan? I don't have anyone else, Mayor, unless there's somebody who didn't sign up. Is there anybody that didn't sign up? Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay.
 what discussion or would the council like to make or action they would like to take or what do y'all want to do so we're close to the end of the year usually when we do uh kind of our
 rules of engagement. We had multiple people speak as, I mean, they're basically the applicants, multiple people that have financial interests speaking as residents. So I don't know if it's in our bylaws or the rules we set each year that people that have direct financial interests are the applicant or, you know, they shouldn't be speaking. I'm hoping that we add it.
 if it's not there, that people that are going to directly financially benefit from our decision, which we had multiple people speak as residents or citizens today, that they should not be speaking in that period.
 Well, the way we've always done it, everybody's got five minutes. Yeah, they're still members of the public, and so we have not restricted them in the rules. If you want to restrict them, then you can propose some restriction for the rules of order and procedure, and I'll draft it up, and you can present it to the city council and see if that is adopted. But right now, our rules certainly do not prohibit someone because they have an interest in the project itself.
 from coming forward and speaking as a member of the public. Okay. If you're done, Sloan, maybe I'll just share some of my thoughts. For me, this is a really, really tough decision. I understand both sides really well. I guess I would
 I hope that maybe we could table this for three weeks and maybe there's additional information. Jonathan, I don't know how much work it would be for you to do more analysis like you did up there at Chandler Crossing, which I found to be extremely helpful.
 But I, you know, we're in another very sensitive area. There's some real good pros and cons on both sides. And I'm really struggling right now with this. So those are my thoughts. You wanna do a tour, Theresa?
 I'm not joking. You're not joking? I thought you were teasing me. You know, I always like to do a tour, and one of the things that I really would like to find out is, just like with Chandler Crossing, is there a prairie remnant out there? Because the southern area, you know, appears so, but that may be an artifact, you know, from haying, so I don't know. So I would like to have a tour, yes.
 Thank you for reminding me. Okay. Okay, what else? Well, would you all like to hold it here for three weeks or what you all want to do? Hold it? I think we need to hold it. Okay, so you want to hold it right here then. We'll just hold it right here for three weeks and we'll pick it up. Then, all right, we have C4, which is an ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPZD
 2021-004 for approximately 101.77 acres located south of 2936 South Black Oak Road to allow the development of 2.2 acres for commercial and multi-family residential uses and 97.8 acres for for single family to four family residential uses and parkland open space KIF
 Peter ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approves our PZD 2021-004 as described in exhibits A, B and C attached to the planning divisions agenda memo which allows the development of 2.2 acres for commercial and multifamily residential uses and 97.8 acres for single family to four family residential uses and parkland or open space. The city council,
 Section 2 that the official zoning map the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amended to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 above and I should note for the council which is pretty clear. You cannot pass this until the annexation would be passed Okay, John
 Thank you, Mayor. As Mr. Williams noted, this project is directly tied to the other that was just heard. Without one, you cannot have the other. To give it some zoning context, again, this property isn't incorporated in Washington County. If it were to be annexed, it would be rezoned to the city's RA, Residential Agricultural Zoning designation.
 To the north of the property, you can see areas of P1, where Combs Park currently sits on the west bank of the West Fork of the White River. Immediately to the northeast are areas of lower-density residential zoning, whereas the northwest are areas of more intense industrial zoning.
 Everything else remains unincorporated Washington County, which as a previous speaker alluded to, Washington County's baseline zoning designation for every property in the county is one unit per acre, and you can use it for single family homes or you can use it for agricultural uses. Anything else?
 Whatever the use is whatever the density is is a conditional use permit through the forum cohort I do want to clarify however that the city does not have purview over those conditional use permits I don't know if that's how it came across for the council or not with that previous comment. I
 Moving into the request itself, the applicant is proposing a residential planned zoning district that is composed of three different components, starting from the east. There is an area noted on the site plan as dedicated park area. The applicant has approached the Parks Department and they're proposing approximately 30 to 35 acres of land.
 constitute a mix of parkland dedication in association with the development to meet their requirements there, and also donation as it would greatly exceed the amount of parkland typically required with the number of units or the residential component of this project. That parkland would directly or does directly abut city's fire training facility to the immediate north, as well as Combs Park, which I mentioned earlier.
 The second piece of the project, which I'll be focusing on, it's the one proposed for change compared to how the property sits today, is what's known as Planning Areas 1 and 2 of the proposal that you see outlined here in blue.
 A conceptual site plan was included with the proposal. This is largely focused on planning area two, where the applicant knows that they're interested in building detached single-family homes. The northwestern corner of the property, however, next to Superior Auto, as you can see here outlined in blue,
 as intended for potential non-residential development. There are allowances for restaurants, retail offices, but also multifamily. I know the city council has expressed and experienced frustrations with non-residential areas or properties being sold as non-residential areas to the council, but they're developed as single family homes. So the applicant has not proposed that here, although there is some allowance for multifamily.
 Moving into the bulk of the property. Again, this is intended to be developed with a single family detached housing. It is similar in nature to the NC neighborhood conservation zoning district.
 If you see the odd layout proposed, it may initially not look like it makes much sense. I think the biggest thing to note here is that the portion bisecting the property from approximately where the red arrow is all the way to the northeast is where the beginnings of the protective stream is on the property. The applicant does intend to avoid that almost completely, if at all possible, and only proposes crossings near two locations.
 This portion of the property again is where the majority of the impact will be almost undoubtedly. They're proposing 250 homes along it. These are a mixture of front-loaded homes on city streets and also to incorporate the open space portion of the property, the applicants also proposed zoning allowances to have homes built on African land.
 or to have them facing the open spaces so as not to turn their backs on the parkland as sometimes has been seen in the city and it can result in neglect of those areas.
 uh as the project relates to our adopted plans staff did have some mixed findings our future land use map calls it out as industrial area natural area as i've described it does speak fairly well to the natural area portion of the property which aligns with the flood plain of the west fork of the white river that is where the majority or that's where the parkland is proposed
 In terms of the industrial area designation, that is primarily intended to be developed more intensely with non-residential uses.
 and then hopefully not sounding like I'm piggybacking on the applicants comments but city plan does note that there is an attempt to incorporate residential uses in areas that are originally or historically single-use districts so as to try to start disassembling some of those single-use monoculture parts of the city that have resulted in larger commute times
 When looking at this from a city plan 2040 perspective, staff does not disagree that this is not your typical consideration of infill development.
 Then becomes a question of whether this is sprawl, which may not be as straightforward as it seems. It is indeed next to jobs. The eastern portion of the property is slated to have a trail connection up to the St. Paul Trail. I believe that's in phase three of the bond. So there is an intent to tie it into the overall trail network of the city.
 Similarly, Ozark Regional Transit does run one of its lines down Armstrong. The applicant can speak to it more, but they have been in conversations with Ozark Regional Transit to extend that line or perhaps incorporate an on-demand outlet to it.
 uh when looking at it from an enduring green network perspective uh the eg does cover the entirety of the property which is worth considering i think that gets back to my my previous comments during the annexation conversation about how uh the portion of the property that's not currently flood plain is hydric soil
 But the EGN is not intended to prevent any development at all. Its original adoption and intent was to create those corridors of natural areas and protect sensitive areas of which we would need to depend on a development proposal and the associated documents to determine whether, again, there's anything like wetlands on the property.
 And looking at it from, again, that info perspective, in our matrix, it does get a fairly low score. I think we've hit on several of these issues already. There is water in Black Oak Road, and the property is in close proximity to the fire station on Happy Hollow. Combs Park is immediately to the north.
 A segment of the St. Paul Trail is to the north. It is worth noting that it is a broken segment. It doesn't tie into the Malark Trail Network yet, but it is intended to be so in the not-too-distant future.
 Issues on the property, I think I've expanded significantly on the ecological sensitivity of the area. I, staff in evaluating this feels that a lot of attention was paid to that and laying out the property. It is clear from our perspective that the site, the first considerations when looking at the site were those environmentally sensitive areas and then the development worked backwards from that compared to some proposals we've seen.
 and also to Council Member Turk's question previously about the question of the sanitary sewer main, extension is undoubtedly required. And if this is also left on the first reading, I'll certainly look into that capacity issue in the lead up to the next meeting.
 As this item went to the Planning Commission, it was heard at two meetings, whereas the Commission felt comfortable enough forwarding the annexation of their first meeting. This aspect of the request, the planned zoning district was tabled. There were several comments or concerns from the Commissioners. There was a little bit of lack of clarity of what was being proposed where as far as the zoning tables went.
 There were questions about transit accessibility. There was some observations that the city's block length standards for city streets was not being observed. And the Commission expressed a desire to see that improved, have alternatives included like pedestrian links between blocks where street connections were not available.
 And that, so again, it was tabled at that October 11th meeting. At the October 25th meeting, commissioners felt that these concerns were adequately addressed before the audit to the city council recommending approval. The vote was not as clear cut as the annexation. It was a split vote of five to two. Similar to the annexation, those in favor did note that. I'm sorry, Mayor. You have one more minute. Thank you. Thank you. I'm wrapping up.
 They didn't note that attainable housing and employment was a particularly appealing part of the proposal. The two dissenting commissioners, again, similar to the annexation, there were concerns about the low infill rating, distance from other services like schools and grocery stores. And conversely, to those who supported the request, I think arguing that the property would be more sensitively developed in the city as opposed to outside of it.
 The two dissenting commissioners felt that it should remain outside the city, likely seeing it not developed and preserved at those terms. And also that the proposal had the potential for more concentration of its density to preserve more green spaces. And with that, I think I've already summarized the public comment with this request. I'm happy to take any questions from the council and Jesse Fulcher is also representing this item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 thank you mayor thank you council thanks staff for that report uh is the step is the site plan up on the screen possibly mayor would you like me to have that pulled up yeah that'll be fine i'll just run through shall we got to where we got
 So the Enduring Green Network, the environmentally sensitive areas is how we design the subdivision and that's really what you're supposed to do when you have a site like this. Identify your important environmental features and design around that. So we've already had a wetlands delineation, jurisdictional waters delineation. We walked the site with the Corps and have identified our features on this site. Here we go.
 we didn't show up on the screen very well but right here in the middle there's a stream that runs through and so that was our main design point that's why there's that green way those homes will face out on on a walking trail and then along that stream that tree corridor so that was our main design focal point and we built everything around that there's also some streams a small little tributary up here in the north uh there was a chance for us to provide a buffer for the non-residential uses to the north but also to preserve that feature as well
 early on we engaged with park staff and looked at the east side of the property what isn't shown on on this aerial is as you run north you have combs park you have white river park and then as you continue north and west that linear uh park system continues all the way to morningside drive there was 12 acres that we dedicated to the parks department that made that connection so there's a linear connection that will run from this
 35 acres that will donate and you'll be able to go all the way up to Morningside Drive and the intersection of 15. So it's a really neat opportunity there. The parks department saw that opportunity. We've already been in front of the parks, recreation advisory board. They voted and are excited about dedicating 35 acres of parkland portion of it is outside of the floodplain. So.
 won't be underwater during heavy rains. The north part, you know, is really is a kind of a riparian and treed area that will be preserved. Overall, 50% of this site will be preserved in green space. So out of the 100 acres, we're only gonna develop 50 acres, a lot of common green space within the development. And again, really the environmental features is what drove the design of this subdivision.
 to go to a couple points made during the annexation that were more about the development to some degree uh the enduring green network and jonathan mentioned this a little bit the enduring green network is a very wide brush stroke on a map i was there when it was worked on it was two green markers following riparian corridors to just identify areas where you'd want to create linear connections
 and connect green space. So when you see this massive area of enduring green network, as Jonathan mentioned, that's not to say that you shouldn't develop this property. It says that we should identify a linear connection, which we've obviously done with 35 acres of parkland. Attainable housing. There's multiple tiers of attainable housing. We're going to try to hit our bucket. I think it's zero to 60% AMI, 60-80% AMI, and 80-120% AMI.
 I don't think anyone's hitting zero to 60 right now. There may be some projects coming down the pipeline that have some financial assistance that will help some of those lower tiers. But, yeah, we'll be in that 80 to 100 probably percent AMI. So we're just trying to hit one part of the attainable housing picture.
 And it's helpful even when only one of us is hitting that because what that allows is somebody that maybe is renting a unit, whether it be an apartment or a home, they now have an opportunity to purchase a home and that frees up their rental unit. And that person that's in a smaller home or in a different region, that opens up that unit for them to then move into Fayetteville and get into a larger unit. It allows that vertical migration of households. And so everyone needs to be hitting all of these buckets to increase our stock of housing.
 And so in that sense, I mean, it is attainable housing. If we're a six minute drive from downtown, that's not a lot of transportation costs. I would guess that our housing and transportation numbers probably in that forty two to forty five percent, which is forty five percent being the maximum that you want to hit. So I would call this an attainable housing development, even with transportation included.
 Again, the infill conversation keeps coming up. If we just develop the tier two and tier three centers, which tend to be commercial nodes and corridors,
 Absolutely, we need to be pushing for that to be done. But again, that is not the silver bullet to supply $20,000, 20,000 units of housing for Fayetteville and 10,000 units of attainable housing. It's going to provide multifamily development, just like we've seen uptown, and that's great. That's densification, that's walkable, that's perfect. But the
 Households that are moving to Fayetteville, not all of them want to live in a commercial development in an apartment or a townhouse. Many want a single-family home, so we cannot say, let's focus on two- and three-tier development commercial areas and say, that's what we're going to do.
 moving forward that that's not a reasonable answer you have to grow to provide housing of all different types in all different price points so again infill cannot be the factor that that directs every decision that we make it needs to be one of those factors and that's why we need to look at all six this is you know not infill in the way that we've seen but again infill that we've seen is not in the tier two and tier three centers and has not been attainable
 In regarding sprawl, that's one of those topics that everyone has a different point of view on. In my opinion, if you're jumping over properties and leaving them vacant and developing far from the city edge, I tend to see that as sprawl. When you're extending the city limits for these two parcels in an area that hasn't moved its city limits in 40 or 50 years,
 I don't see how that sprawl if you're adjacent to a major employment center I don't see how that sprawl and if you can drive to downtown within six minutes I can't see how that is sprawled. So again, this has been a
 project that's really focused and been designed around the aspects of this project that need to be protected and It provides 50 acres of green space 35 acres, which would be dedicated to the city for a future part Probably 25 acres of tree preservation included in this and part of a long linear park system So we're proud of this project and hope that the council will see it that way as well. Thank you. Thank you Okay
 What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff? Mr. Mayor, I have a question for the applicant. I just want to make sure I understood what he said.
 If you could come back, Mr. Fulcher. Thank you. Did I understand or misunderstand that you all had already supplied a wetland report or had that wetland determined, whether it was determined by the Corps of Engineers or the governing body status of that? Yes, ma'am. We did.
 Had that done probably two months ago and we walked with the Corps, our engineer, myself and David from the Corps walked the site. He wanted to look at some potential non-jurisdictional wetlands. We walked into the woods. He determined they were not wetlands. They were just small depressions. He sent that on to his superiors. They agreed with his findings and the three protected areas.
 or jurisdictional waterways on the property are the streams, the one that we designed around in the middle of the site. And there's two small tributaries on the north property line that are being protected. Could you share that with us? Is that possible? Sure. Because that would be really nice to look at. One other thing, as I guess we'll do a tour eventually, but did you notice if there were any prairie remnants or are those fields been hayed and used for a long period of time?
 I didn't notice any. Doesn't mean they weren't there. It's a big site. You have to kind of go in between lots of tree lines to get to different portions of the site. So there could be areas out there that I haven't physically stood on. So that's something we can look at. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the council for the applicant or the staff? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 uh you have five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person in the chamber after that who do we have on zoom no one on zoom mayor okay and we have in the sign up registry we have melissa lee okay well let's start there
 Mr. Melissa Lee, just the same comments as I said before, and the only clarification I wanted to say is those fields have been used as hate fields for the last several decades. Okay. Next is Susan Young. Respectfully, I think I've said my piece. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Teresa Palkrus. Yes.
 And I echo what Ms. John said. I've said my piece. Thank you. Thank you. And Leslie Belden. Okay. I believe we're done, Mayor. Okay. I assume that... We're getting close to nine, Mayor. Oh. I know. Everybody. I'm sorry. Now we have a hand up. Okay. Except he just put it down. Okay. Okay.
 Well, we're going to hold this for three weeks. I assume the council wishes to do that. I think everybody up here needs a little bit of a break, so we'll probably take, we'll be back around 9 o'clock. So, all right, let's take a short break. Let's go ahead and get started again.
 Okay. What I have is C-5, an ordinance to approve Vacation 21-026 for property located northwest of East 5th Street and East Sequoia Drive, vacate a portion of the general utility easement and street right-of-way kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA section 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof Which are not required for corporate purposes And whereas the City Council has determined that the following scribe portion of a general utility easement and street right-of-way Are not required for corporate purposes now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1
 that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a general utility easement and street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo. Section 2. A copy of this ordinance, newly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's Memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3. This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1.
 A 30-foot wide utility easement shall be planted along the southern property line. Section number two, access to any active AT&T lines are maintained and must be identified in the field by surveying, hand digging, and potholing. And number three, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay. All right. Jonathan?
 thank you mayor this property is east of downtown fayetteville on the south or southeast slope of mount sequoia depending on your perspective it's on the west west end of fifth street if the council recalls the rezoning that came through at the last meeting at happy hollow and fifth street this is at the western end of the same street there the applicant is proposing to subdivide the property and to create some very large locks
 As a part of this, there's a right-of-way vacation request and an easement vacation request. The first of which is the easement you can see here in yellow on the western portion of the property, which the applicant is proposing to be vacated, and blue, which is a currently unbuilt portion of a cul-de-sac, which represents, again, the west end of East Fifth Street.
 There are a few considerations staff have in evaluating this request, the first of which was whether the franchise utilities with which the City has agreements have consented to it. All of them have. There were some conditions of approval which Mr. Williams read out loud, including the dedication of a utility easement along the southern property line. I did find the specific utilities that AT&T holds.
 The second one is regarding a budding property-owning consent. Typically, when the council sees a right-of-way vacation request, there is an associated consent from all the adjacent property owners that could use the right-of-way.
 The property owner to the south has not provided their consent to date. The applicant has requested it several times over several months. The property owner has submitted several requests that they want to see the applicants perform as a part of splitting these properties prior to consenting to the right-of-ways vacation.
 You may have seen in staff's report to the Planning Commission, there was a memo from our city attorney's office and their evaluation of the request that the
 property owner who is not providing their consent cannot feasibly use this right away if you have the opportunity to visit this site before the meeting you probably saw that the property owner to the south who's the abutting property owner not consenting their land lies many feet below this right away and actually accessing this right away is unfeasible so it was deemed appropriate that the request could move forward without that property owner providing their consent to the applicant
 A third consideration and one that some of the council may be familiar with and others may not is that there is a history of resolutions being proposed, of resolutions being approved by the city council indicating that there is not a policy support for road connections over Mount Sequoia. The most recent of these was, not terribly recent, it was in 1996, but it did state that the council did not generally consider
 or agree with the idea of roads crossing Mount Sequoia and that any such roads would ultimately be under purview or subject to the council's approval. As staff has not seen any indication that this policy has changed in the intervening decade and a half, we did consider this as a part of the request and whether that still represented the public's interest.
 And the last main issue we considered was one of topography. This site is incredibly sloped. Again, it is on the south slope of Mount Sequoia, including just the applicant's property. There is about a 20% slope going from its northern extent to its southern one. Where this street were to, if this street were to be extended, it would have to cross a significant draw on the land, slopes of about 25%.
 And just within the cul-de-sac, the undeveloped cul-de-sac itself is a slope of 20%, which would require a significant amount of grading and potential impact to the landscape to require or to make it a feasible, feasibly developed landscape.
 So all these factors considered, staff does recommend in favor of the right-of-way being vacated. The Planning Commission agreed, forwarding it to the City Council, recommending approval. That recommendation was unanimous. We've not received any public comments today. I'm happy to take any questions the Council has. And I believe Alan Reed is here, I think, virtually as the applicant's representative. Thank you.
 Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. Yes, sir. Mayor, can you hear me? Yes. This is Alan Reid. I'm here tonight representing Dan and Deborah Cootey. And I think Jonathan pretty much laid it out for us. But if there are any questions, specific questions to the survey or the land itself, I'd be glad to try and answer them for you. Okay.
 Does the council have any questions for the applicant or staff? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom?
 Nobody, Mayor. Okay. I don't believe I see anyone in the chamber. At least, I don't see anyone in the chamber. No. Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What action and discussion with the council are to have or take? Okay.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turp. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggen. Yes. Fudge. Yes.
 In order to approve, VAC 21-026 will be properly located northwest of East 5th Street and East Sequoia Drive to vacate a portion of a general utility easement and street right-of-way. And so? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Jones? Yes. Warren?
 Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. In order to approve the AC21-026, we're probably located northwest of East Fifth Street and East Sequoia Drive to vacate a portion of a general utility easement and street right-of-way. Any final comments from the council? Carol, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number six, an ordinance 2-MID-166.23, urban residential design standards, the Unified Development Code to promote pedestrian cross access and require unobstructed access from residential buildings to public sidewalks. Kip?
 Whereas Fayetteville's urban residential design standards require dwellings to have street-facing entries and access to sidewalk when they are located on the ground level and street adjacent. But lack of specificity about the manner and degree of access has led to some recent projects utilizing non-standard and possibly inadequate surface materials and the installation of pedestrian connections leading to fenced-in or otherwise inaccessible entries.
 And whereas the Planning Commission recommends amending the urban residential design standards to address the issue of accessibility, as well as the inability to require pedestrian cross-access where it is accommodated by adjacent properties. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are considered by repeal subsection C4 pedestrian circulation in section 166.23 urban residential design standards and an action new C4 as follows quote subsection 4 pedestrian circulation subsection a ground floor dwelling units adjacent to a public street shall have a primary pedestrian entry that is visible from the street.
 This entry shall connect unobstructed to the public sidewalk, where sidewalk exists in a manner to allow occupants to access from the interior of the structure to the city sidewalk. The connection shall match the sidewalk and material type and shall be at least three feet in width, unless otherwise approved by the zoning and development administrator in writing.
 The section may be gated and shared, but must occur at a spacing of no fewer than one entrance for every two street-level dwellings. The pedestrian connection to the street may run from the door along the facade of the building parallel to the street for a maximum of 12 feet from the door before connecting directly to the public sidewalk.
 Subsection B, urban residential projects. I'll incorporate pedestrian connections to adjacent residential and commercial properties where sidewalk exists unless this requirement is otherwise waived by the Planning Commission. Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor.
 This particular item addresses the city's urban residential design standards. These are in the Unified Development Code and only apply to attached residential developments.
 These, in the shape we know them today, were adopted in 2008. It has been a living section of code. It's not stood still for any amount of time, which is probably appropriate given the changing city and the city's emphasis on infill over that same period. There were amendments made to that ordinance in 2009, 14, 19, and 20, and additionally one being proposed tonight, which I'll go into now.
 As Mr. Williams noted, the proposed amendment is largely regarding the connection from residential units to the street, specifically attached residential units. Again, the code does not specify what that material has to be.
 So what we have found, and this is probably the most prominent example, which came to our Long Branch Planning Commission's attention and led to their drafting this code, is instances where an ADA route is provided to a building separately from their main entrances. There's nothing in code that requires the non-ADA route to be anything substantial. So what you see here?
 is in blue, is the ADA route that was required. That's usually what the city leans on. We see those in concrete. They need to meet minimum slope standards. And what the developer was able to do, taking a plain English reading of our code, was use mulch to make the individual connections. This is about a year old, and I think this is a perfect example of why material like mulch is not ideal. It's not stood the test of time.
 And so you can see another example on the left-hand side of your screen and on the right-hand side of your screen speaks to the second piece of the ordinance, which is that entrances were built to fenced areas. You couldn't even get to the entrance. There is a door on the other side of that fence, but you cannot get to it without jumping over the fenced area there.
 With that in mind, staff is proposing the amendment as Mr. Williams noted. There's three major components to it. The first is that the material of the connection needs to match the sidewalk. It needs to be minimum three feet in width. And there is an alternative route that staff could administratively approve if we evaluate an alternative that's appropriate.
 The most ready example that comes to mind is when we see developments that propose crushed granite or pea gravel, something that's more pervious than concrete and that can still meet the standards of something that's going to be robust and serve residents. The second piece of the ordinance
 is that no obstructions would exist between these sidewalks and the entrances. We did include an allowance for gating. Of course, it's appropriate that people feel secure, but we do want residents to be able to get in and out of the units from the street.
 And the last piece is for residential developments to provide connectivity or access between developments when it's feasible or when it's already accommodated on an adjacent property. What we've been seeing a lot of it, say, through the decades are very large residential multifamily projects in particular, and there are not connectivity standards between those like there are for single-family subdivisions and commercial development.
 So there are large, large blocks of land with significant amounts of housing, but you cannot legally cross between those properties to get to services or streets without having to walk all the way around them. I think one of the most prominent examples is in North Fayetteville. If you think of the area between Joyce and Zion to the south and north in old Missouri
 Gosh, I'm sorry. Starnes or Vantage. I can't remember where it's to the west now, but if you think of that area in general,
 It is a lot of housing, but there's no way for residents to really get between them. And so they become car dependent. So this is something that again, our long range planning commission group came up with. Staff supports it. We think it's a positive change to our ordinance. We recommend in favor of it. The planning commission forwarded it to the council unanimously. And to date we've received no public comment. And I'm happy to take questions the council has. Thank you.
 What questions do we have in the council for the staff? Mayor, I have a question for Jonathan. Are we out of compliance with ADA because of that fencing and also because mulch is not really a good material for wheelchairs?
 Not in that particular project's instance. They were able to do the mulch because they provided that alternate ADA route between each building, which directs the users to a parking lot and the parking lot access point. So it does meet the accessibility requirements, but certainly more the letter of the law than the intent of what we're striving for. Thank you for clarifying that.
 So, wait a minute. So Jonathan and I were using mulch instead of gravel.
 Yes. There's nothing in code that specifies what you have to have that connection built out of. And I think we have been fortunate up to this point that most projects that's been there ADA access point. So they have to use something that can accommodate a wheelchair or somebody with mobility limitations, which is usually concrete.
 and in this instance they provided alternative and in this location they recognized that code did not require concrete it did not require gravel so they opted for mulch okay well that's good to know what else do we have from the council okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes
 Don't engage anyone in the public or any councilmen. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Nobody. No one. Okay, Leslie, you want to speak on this one, or are you waiting? Okay. Well, that pretty well limits that, unless there's someone outside.
 Anyone on the square?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of council? This is an ordinance. It's on the It's on the first reading. I just want to thank staff for bringing this to our attention I think that this is a major issue that I wasn't even aware of so Thank you for bringing this to our attention and for offering a really good solution And if there's no other comments or questions, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading
 Second. Okay, we've got a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 orders amend section 166 point two three urban residential design standards of the Unified Development Code promote pedestrian cross access and require unobstructed access from residential buildings to public sidewalks maybe if we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second motion second to go to the third and final read care which please call room third yes Hertzberg yes RV
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. As an ordinance amend section 166.23 urban residential design standards of the Unified Development Code to promote pedestrian cross access and require unobstructed access from residential buildings to public sidewalks. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? All right, Carrie would you please call the roll. Turd?
 Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Canyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Okay, let's move on to number seven. An ordinance to amend 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to allow temporary outdoor refreshment areas through the special events permit process. Kitts.
 Whereas Act 812 of 2019 allows the city to create temporary or permanent entertainment districts permitting alcohol possession in outdoor public spaces. And whereas the city has created three permanent outdoor refreshment areas, but has no provisions for temporary outdoor refreshment areas at special events that occur outside these permanent outdoor refreshment areas.
 And whereas the University of Arkansas has requested that the city create a temporary outdoor refreshment area for, quote, Hogtown on Maple Street, unquote, during the November 26th football game, which will allow possession of alcoholic beverages without fencing in a small area. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend subsection of section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area of the Fayetteville City Code by adopting a new subsection as follows. Temporary outdoor refreshment areas may be created in other areas of the City through a special event permit process in section 72.58 subsection .
 Section 2 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay
 because it will provide opportunities for Fayetteville business establishments, residents, and visitors to comply with the guidelines issued by the Arkansas Department of Health and the Fayetteville City Board of Health regarding social distancing which are necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents and visitors. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency such as this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 and that's it i feel a little bit like certainly enough that's all right all right yeah thank you mayor good evening council members my name is devin howland economic vitality city of payable
 As Kit mentioned, the item 43 consideration amends our ordinance to have significant benefits for special event organizers across the city that might have an event not in one of our existing entertainment districts.
 In looking at this and in downtown and at Centennial Park, we've seen the Aura special events provision successfully utilized several times, with patients being allowed to consume an entire event area. We want to bring that option to event organizers outside of the existing orders or Auras by enabling these temporary districts to be deployed, so long as they meet the statutory requirements outlined in Act 812.
 Staff is also requesting this take effect immediately, given that it will enable special events to comply with public health guidance, and events are fast approaching that could utilize this provision, such as the final Razorback home game on the 26th.
 Just to touch on what those provisions are. Act 812 makes it very clear. This can only be used in areas of town that are zoned for or customarily used for commercial purposes or that contain any number of tourist destinations, hospitality, accommodation, businesses, et cetera. Communication has really been the foundation for us with this entire ordinance or ordinance from its inception to its implementation. And I wanted to touch on what this does and what it does not do.
 This is specifically for these commercially zoned areas or events who use alcohol sourced from an ABC-approved permit. We have that stipulation in there, and it's important because it guarantees and ensures the chance to ID and that our police are made aware of said picnic permit. This will be applied for through our existing special offense process, go through the applicable departments, including the Fayetteville Police Department and ending in Mayor Jordan.
 specifics will be worked out on a case-by-case basis in regards to the container, signage, etc. This does not allow alcohol to be brought into an event area or any type of situation that would be a bring-your-own beverage. Parkets and sidewalk cafes are not applicable, nor is an open consumption district where you can walk around like we have in downtown. This is not going to allow large swaths, such as a portion of a corridor, to be opened up for consumption.
 It simply gives the option for them to request that we remove the beer garden from the event. The majority of Fayetteville is covered in residential zoning, and Act 812 states we have to focus these areas on areas zoned for commercial purposes. We developed this map just to articulate areas of where this could be allowed and where it's not. The red hue that you see is the residential districts, and that could be residential single-family, multifamily, etc.,
 In the green, you see a C2 urban thoroughfare, neighborhood services, community services, et cetera. And so we're looking at pockets of where this could be used. And so I just wanted to give an indication that, you know, if somebody had an anticipation of using this for, you know, a neighborhood block party, not applicable here.
 We wanted to touch on how this new amendment would actually be integrated into our special events process. And we incorporate all of our requests through the special events process just to ensure everybody that needs to get their eyes on it does. And I'm going to touch on the next slide an additional provision that we've done since the beginning. And it's really about maintaining a high level of communication. And that is what we call a notice of proposed or event form. And I'll show you that in just a second.
 But should this be approved and it meet the criteria and everything looked good to go, we would then have to notify ABC of the temporary district for the requirement in the law. This is our notice of proposed or event form we used. It's mirrored off of the same form someone would use if they're wanting to shut the street down for over eight hours. We generate this personally inside either Chung or myself for each event. We are the ones that list the addresses and the businesses that need to be contacted.
 We do this because it enables us to ensure we don't miss anybody, and it enables us to ensure that we force those conversations to happen. Robust communication on the front end has mitigated surprises, and it's made these events smooth. We haven't had a complaint or an event yet. We've even seen events be enhanced because of that communication. From inception to development, communication is the foundation of why this ordinance works so well, and we want to make sure that that carries on in the future and other parts of the city.
 Similar consideration to my final comments, event organizers have not only proved this can be done in a safe manner, but that it truly enhances the event. If you were able to join us at First Thursday several weeks ago, it was really great to see visitors actually going around the entire square, visiting all the vendors, not just concentrating near the town center.
 I've even received requests from race organizers that this could be done deployed at the finish line for even as little as an hour. And I anticipate we'll see more creativity if this option is made available. Since the beginning, litter, noise, and trespassing, as well as protecting our businesses' alcohol permits, have been at the forefront of this ordinance. That remains true here as well. It's also important to note that all of the local and state laws apply. Public intoxication, et cetera, noise, etc.
 Lastly, I wanted to touch on a point that's extremely important to remember. We have checks and balance and measures on these events. The oral ordinance inside of it states that in these consumption districts, mayor has the ability to make changes as needed. Oral special events flow through our city's special event permit process. And on that application, there is a clause that states the city reserves the right to revoke that application at any time.
 Also, policing powers for events that may prevent safety issues or violate a law are there. Thank you for your time. I'm happy to answer any questions. There you go. What questions do we have from the council? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes. Broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. And then those that are in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Elvis Moya. All right. Please go ahead.
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council, and thank you for providing me the opportunity to speak this evening. Elvis Moya, the Associate Athletics Director for Fan Engagement and Community Outreach here at the university. We are currently,
 in our final home game of the season stretch and Hogtown on Maple Street, which is located just right outside of Razorback Stadium on the north side of the stadium. That event happens four hours prior to each home game. And we conclude that event 30 minutes prior to kickoff.
 that gets all of our fans into the stadium to enjoy the pregame activities. This event that we have out here is, this is the second year, which last year we did, did not have the event, but we did launch the event in the year prior to COVID.
 One of the big pieces that is the call to action for this particular event is that it really is the heart of the action for our fans to enjoy pregame festivities right outside. And it brings all of our Hog fans together and allows them the opportunity to enjoy more than the game. That includes our local food trucks that we bring in from Northwest Arkansas, as well as activities for fans, including a pep rally.
 We have a live concert outside, which we do utilize our local bands from Northwest Arkansas and work with some of our groups within the city. And we also have appearances by either former Razorback student athletes as well as some of our coaches. And then we have the opportunity for fans to to really enjoy some live games on a video board that we have out there as well.
 throughout the event. But it really, we've had no issues with any particular piece of the event. It's grown. Fans from all across Northwest Arkansas and throughout the state have really come together to cheer on the Hogs
 And we really believe that this would be an opportunity for our fans to continue to enjoy and also enhance their experience out in Hogtown. So really appreciate each of you and your support. And we hope that this is something that we can look forward to at our final home game. Who else? No one else on Zoom, Mayor.
 no okay no one in here so i'll bring it back to the council this is um an ordinance it's on the first reading what action or discussion would the council like to have or do i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion to second to go to the second reading here would you please call the row yes harpsburg yes downs
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. At an order to amend section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to allow temporary outdoor refreshment areas through the special events permit process. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg?
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. An Ordinance to amend section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to allow temporary outdoor refreshment areas throughout the special events permit process and to declare an emergency. What final comments do we have in the council?
 Mayor, I'd like to make a brief comment. Okay. I appreciate Devin giving us a detailed report and identifying the areas of town and the appropriate restrictions or processes.
 to allow this to happen. So I'm very comfortable with this moving forward, especially in Hogtown, but also in future areas. So I want to thank him for his diligence and thoroughness in putting this together. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Carriage Police Calderon. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. And Mayor, we need a separate vote on the emergency clause. Oh, that's right. We've got to have an emergency clause on this. So we need a motion and a second to do an emergency clause. I move we have an emergency clause on this. Yeah, we have one in section two. We just need to pass it. Oh, okay. Oh, okay. All right, there we go. Well, let's just have a vote then. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 kirk yes herzberg yes jones yes canyon yes scroggins yes bunch yes okay well let's move on to number eight a resolution to request that mayor jordan direct the city staff for contract for services to drafting
 natural environment, ecosystems, and climate resilience chapter in the existing or future city plan that will inform future policies, programs, and actions that
 impact environmental and ecosystem issues to assess and expand the footprint of lands of high ecological value to provide funding if needed to draft the plan and to create a permanent capital improvements project budget for the purchase of the lands with high environmental and ecological value okay theresa this is yours i believe
 Thank you, Mayor. And I want to apologize to everybody that if I ever draft a resolution again, the title would be significantly shorter. So that was a pretty long mouthful, but I have been working on this for quite a while. I wanted to make sure I got everything in the resolution and thank the previous work that's been done by the city, but also by
 the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Group, and also the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust. And I know there are others that have been out there and have worked to preserve and conserve land in our city.
 So, this item does three things. It actually creates a master plan for green spaces and looks at the enduring green network and looks at other parks like Brooks Hummel and Weddington Woods and several other areas that we have. It would conduct, again, develop a master plan that would use, we would establish baselines
 metrics, goals, and be able to track our progress in conserving and preserving areas of the city. We'd also track our tree preservation. And there's a whole lot of other parameters that are really important if we want to really live up to the name of our green city.
 I cited the Kirkland Washington master sustainability plan because it's such a great template. It's such a great model. And we have almost all of those elements already from our energy action plan. But what's missing is this piece, this sort of the enduring green network piece and how we plan to develop that.
 So that's the main goal of this. The second part, which is unfunded right now in our current budget, is to create a CIP fund where the city would deposit 100,000 each year as a minimum to acquire conservation easements or land purchases or use those fundings to further develop the master plan goals.
 So that is what's here tonight. I think that we need to plan for climate resiliency. It's just a coincidence that the Glasgow conference was going on last week when I put this forward.
 Clearly, we have a huge amount of work to do, and I think the work really starts at home. And we've done a lot of work. This will just continue to develop that and to work toward these goals and the open space plan that we collaborate with the Northwest Arkansas Council on. So I'm happy to take any questions you might have. What questions do we have in the council?
 The mayor joining city council. I had the opportunity, I guess you can say, to co-sponsor with Teresa and I wanted to make an amendment. You want to put an amendment on it? Yes, sir. Okay. Okay.
 that the city of Fayetteville includes in analysis of environmental justice considerations. For example, low-income or minority populations who are vulnerable to climate change when reviewing, prioritizing, and implementing land conservation and land conservation measures. Okay.
 I would consider that a friendly amendment. It's an oversight on my part that I did not include the environmental justice component in my resolution. Well, we need a second. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second for the amendment. Any discussion on the amendment? Karen, would you please call the roll? Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Harris?
 Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Mr. Mayor, I'd ask Council Member Jones to email me his exact words so I can put it into a new Section 4 in that resolution. So if you could email that to me tomorrow so I can include it in the resolution. Absolutely. Okay. Getting back to the amended resolution, what public comment do we have on this?
 oh sorry everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address we will take those participating by zoom first and then those in person in the chamber after that who do you have on zoom susan robert britton okay
 Hi, I'm Margaret Britton, 1931 North Wheeler Avenue, and I'm a citizen at large member for the city's Environmental Action Committee, or EAC. I am here today to represent the committee. The EAC has discussed this resolution at some length, and by a unanimous vote, we would like to express our support for the resolution and for the Climate Justice Amendment.
 The reality of climate change is upon us. We must move quickly to make sure that environmental issues such as flooding, tree canopy, and the city's carbon footprint are all at the front of our minds as we make decisions concerning growth, development, and resiliency. And we need to make sure that our city responds to the inequities that a changing climate tends to bring. Those least likely to have the resources to respond are often the most affected.
 Our local response to climate change needs to be a nimble one. It is imperative that we be ready and able to act quickly. With a clear plan and a ready fund, you can put us on that path tonight. Thank you for your thoughtful consideration. Thank you. Who else do we have, Susan? No one else has raised their hand. Okay. Who do we have in the chamber? Okay.
 Okay. All right, I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution, so we need a motion and a second here.
 I ultimately plan on supporting this, although I do want to kind of have a warning. I'm concerned that this may be used to fight some of our 2040 goals of providing housing. So that's a serious concern of mine. Based on some of the emails and support that I got,
 It seemed like people were thinking that this was going to allow us to buy land and make sure that houses don't get built by houses that are already there. And that's concerning to me. If we're going to fight climate change, we need density. We don't need sprawl. And if we use this to basically fight any new housing wherever it is and make it more complicated for developers and people, it will actually do the opposite.
 opposite of helping the climate. So like I said, I'm gonna vote for it. I just, I know it's a resolution, which means we will be seeing this again and we'll get to look at it again, but I'm hoping that it kind of stays in line with some of the 2040 goals and not just more issues that developers have to go through or ammunition people have to stop development happening from around them, so.
 some interesting points what other discussion do we have on this okay so what's the wishes the council moved to vote on the resolution second okay we have a motion second pass resolution any final comments from the council um i would just like to respond just a bit to sloan's concern
 The intent of this is really to prioritize and target high ecological value areas around streams. It's not intended to prohibit rezoning that's already been approved. So I just wanna make that clear since I drafted it. Some people may have had a misunderstanding, but that certainly was not my intent. Thank you. Anything else? Okay, Kerbich, please call the roll. Tarek.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Okay. All right. That concludes our business. What announcements do you have, Susan? Anything? No, sir. All right. Anybody got any announcements? Okay. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.