I would like to call the City Council meeting of November the 19th, 2019 to order. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Unch. Here. Kurt. Here. Smith. Here. Adiras. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Eddy. Here. Scroggins. Present. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in a pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Now, before I get into the consent, I do want everyone to know that under unfinished business number one, the Mud Creek rezoning is going to be pulled. Is that correct, Garner, tonight? Yes.
 Okay. Yes, indeed it will be. Yes. Yes, Mayor. So I mean you can stay and make public comments if you want, but I want you to know that that's going to probably be the applicant is asked to pull that from the agenda. Yes. Okay, under the consent agenda. Number one,
 Approval of the October 15, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2020 Selective Trafficking Enforcement Program grant in the amount of $90,700 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number three, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a matching grant award from 2019 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program in the amount of $30,205.89 for the replacement of body armor vests for federal police officers and approved budget adjustment. Number four.
 a resolution to amend resolution 68-18 to allow the city to utilize pricing presented in the existing contract with ecos connect llc on an as needed basis and not
 and not on a total annual cost number five a resolution to prove a budget adjustment any amount of five thousand eight hundred dollars recognizing public access television fee revenue to be used for minor equipment i'll entertain a motion except consent agenda is red sarah i'd like to make a motion to accept the consent agenda oh second we have a motion a second to accept the consent agenda is red please would you please call the roll sorry
 Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Okay. Under unfinished business, number one.
 Orders for his own that property described rezoning petition RZ in nineteen dash six seven sixteen four approximately ten point four three acres located east of 3638 North Front Street from c2 thoroughfare commercial and I won heavy commercial line industrial to CS community services subject to a bill of assurance car Yes, we do have a letter that was sent to you and the City Council on
 requesting a withdrawal I believe the applicants representative is here if you have questions for him and I believe there are some some neighbors that also might be interested in talking to you okay what question do we have this applicant want to make a statement
 My name is Hugh Jarrett. I'm here on behalf of the applicant. I'm here to answer any questions. Between the last time I was here and now, we've met with the neighbors three or four times. We think we've gotten to a site plan that's pretty close to what we've agreed on, but we have not had enough time to do runoffs, retaining walls. A lot of different questions are out there. That would be part of a...
 full-on PZD submittal, and we just hadn't had the time. So we need this resounding request pulled. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. The questions that we have for the applicant from the council, anything? Sloan. Do you want to table indefinitely, or what do you actually want us to do? I spoke with Mr. Williams. Tabled indefinitely would just be, would go off the, you know, gets canned at the end of December. That's fine. However, whatever is most convenient for you all.
 I guess I'd ask it is that gonna force him to have to go through planning commission again? You're okay with that yes, okay. Thank you Treece okay Any other questions counts?
 All right. We'll take some public comment, but keep in mind this is going to be tabled tonight. But if you have something you'd like to say, we will hear it. So does anybody have any comments? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I move to table indefinitely. Teresa. I second that motion. We have a motion to second to table indefinitely. Any discussion on that?
 All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Excuse me. Ma'am, come on up. We're about to vote, so. I think we misunderstood something. I thought he was saying that he was pulling it and that he would resubmit it at another time. He is. And you're saying tabling it. Well, it's...
 It's about the same thing. We're going to table it indefinitely. That means unless somebody brings it back, it will probably go through the whole process again. So we start from the very beginning. Yeah. Okay. I just want to make sure we understood what was happening. Unless I guess something can be worked out between you all and the applicant. Okay. I just want to make sure we understood what was happening. Did you have any other? We passed a real long time ago that anything that's been tabled indefinitely is actually dismissed on December 31st because we had a few of that.
 We're hanging around and we need to get them out of the clerk's office. So we passed that rule. So once December 31st comes around, anything that's been tabled indefinitely is canceled. Okay. But the applicant can reapply? Absolutely. Yes. I just wanted to make sure we were all on the same page. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. You're very welcome. Now, where were we? We were about to vote. Were we not? Yes. Would you please call the roll?
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes
 So I move to suspend the rules and go to second reading Kyle second motion to second to go to the second reading Lisa would you please call the roll? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, and ordinance amend section 1140 to farmers market subsection B expanded salary use of the square to close Center Street to vehicular traffic
 Okay, we got anything new on this? No, we don't have any anything from the staff the chair of the farmers market board Is ready to report to you about the board vote and the memberships vote which happened last Saturday? Chuck Rutherford's here if you want to get the Feedback from the farmers market vendors You want to do I mean
 Thank you, Mayor. Now I'm very interested to hear the results of the vote. Okay. Chuck. My name is Chuck Rutherford. I'm with the Fayetteville Farmer's Market. We had a board meeting since the last time we were here, and the board of directors approved closing Center Street to the traffic. And then we had our membership meeting last Saturday for all members to vote.
 And the vote was in favor of closing Center Street. Okay. Do we have any questions for Chuck on this? No? Okay. Do you all want to take public comment now, or do you want to discuss anything, or are we tracking too fast tonight? I seem to be on the move tonight. Sorry. I've got a good night's sleep, so I'm in. Okay. Okay.
 So we'll take some public comment on this. Now everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have five minutes, unless the council, by vote, the majority of the council gives you more time. They'll decide how much time that will be or have questions for you.
 Don't engage anybody on the council or out in the audience. Keep your comments directed to me. Stay on topic. I think we all know what the topic is. So, and please give us your name and address. So who would like to be first? Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it right on back to the council. Mark. I mean, we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Okay.
 I'll second the motion and I'd like to say as well how much I appreciate staff, especially Dane Ifling who's worked so hard on this and also Chuck Rutherford and his representation of the board. I think it's going to be great for everybody who uses the square. It's going to be more room for economic and social activity and more room for people who are walking and cycling whenever we have so many people in the middle of the square. So I'm very excited to see this change next season.
 second the motion all right we have a motion a second go to the third and final reading and mark you were made the motion and Matthew seconded it correct correct okay okay would you please call the roll thank you Bunch yes Turk yes Smith yes Sierras yes Marsh yes Inion yes Eddie yes yes
 Orders to amend section 114 point o2 farmers market subsection B Expanded salary use of the square to close Center Street to vehicular traffic. Is there any final comments from the council but good All right, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Yes, Turk yes Smith. Yes, it's yours. Yes Marsh. Yes Kenyon. Yes Yes, all right number three an ordinance to amend 72 point o2
 One eight residential parking permit program for the entertainment District parking zone of the federal city code to expand the residential only parking in the north zone for the entertainment District parking zone I will entertain a motion to go There before we do that there's been numerous meetings of the Ordinance Review Committee. I think the City Council is probably ready to approve an amended version of that and
 that has been discussed and handed out at the agenda session. There are two particular exhibits to that, that one would have the specific rates in it, the other one would be directing city staff to, within parameters, create the rates for parking. But the first thing we need to do is change the current ordinance that was originally brought by Councilmember Kenyon to the longer one that has the exhibits to it.
 So that way I think I probably need to read that whole ordinance if it's amended so that it's clear to the audience what we're talking about. So you're going to read the whole amended ordinance? Fortunately, most of it is in the exhibit. I'm not going to read the exhibits. Okay. Mark? I move that we amend this to the ordinance as it was published and passed out at the agenda session. Okay. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion.
 Motion and a second to pass the amended. To amend the ordinance to the one that was handed out at the agenda session. Okay. All right. So then we need to take some public comment on the amendment first, correct? Yes. And be quick. All right.
 The exhibit, the two exhibits we have, are we going to vote on that later or did we just make a vote? They'll be later. Let's do the amendment first and then we can talk about the exhibits. Okay, thank you. I want to clarify that. Now, just a point. Do you need to read it before we open it up to the public on the amendment? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 I certainly could that way they'd know more about it. I think we probably should kids so they will know what they're going to be talking about. All right this is what was pretty much agreed to by the ordinance review committee and was handed out at the meeting at the agenda session but let me read it.
 An ordinance amends section 72.18 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone to remove the 400 block of Isla Street from the entertainment district parking zone and to enact section 72.20 Wilson Park South neighborhood permit parking district of the Fayetteville City Code to authorize a combination of residential only and mixed-use parking in the Wilson Park South neighborhood.
 Whereas the north zone of the entertainment district parking zone was extended to a single block of island Street between Wilson Avenue and Banda Venner Avenue a few years ago Since this block adjoined two sorority houses with insufficient parking for their members and whereas these sorority houses have been substantially enlarged and grown in membership to the hundreds most not able to reside there but using the houses for lunch dinner chapter meetings, etc
 and whereas residents of nearby streets are now suffering substantial parking problems, and whereas a new parking district for the Wilson Park South neighborhood should be created to address the parking problems suffered by the residents, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1,
 the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 72 point 1 8 a By repealing the last sentence which will remove the block of Isla Street between Wilson Avenue and Vanderbilt Avenue from the entertainment parking zone and section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are hereby enacts section 72 point 2 0 Wilson Park South neighborhood permit parking district has shown on exhibit 1 attached here to made a part hereof Okay, thank you
 Yes, thank you. I just wanted to make sure we understood exactly which one of these versions we were discussing And did I understand the motion correctly that the one titled specific rates and hours is the one that was? Referred to in the motion in the second or was it the one? Titled ordinance review committee recommendation. That's true Let's talk about the ordinance first and then we'll get to the exhibits after the ordinance has actually been passed These were will be exhibits to this particular ordinance, but let's get the ordinance in
 Not passed but at least amended to this and then we'll talk about the exhibits So we're not considering the exhibits not relevant to the motion Not to this motion then we'll talk about the exhibits you all have to decide which exhibit you want So we'll need to do a second amendment to the Yes, there'll be a second amendment to it to adopt the exhibit I want to get this straight so I'm I'm straight on this so I
 We have an amended ordinance that we're either going to vote it up or down. Well, you're going to vote the amendment first. And so we're not going to vote on the whole ordinance yet. But first we have to amend to the version I just read. Yes. And then we can talk about the exhibits. Okay. Well, we're going to vote on the amendment then. Well, let's discuss the amendment, shall we? Well, who would like to start? Teresa. Teresa.
 If I understand correctly, just to simplify the process right here, what we're voting on, the amendment to the ordinance is just to take it out of the entertainment district and place it in a Southwest Wilson parking district, correct? Yeah, what this does, the first proposal by Council Member Kenyon was just to extend the north zone of the entertainment district.
 This amendment removes Isla Street from the north zone of the entertainment district creates a new district The Wilson Park South neighborhood district and then after you do that Then you have to decide which one of the two exhibits you like to the ordinance So this first vote is just to change the the original ordinance that was presented And then we're going to vote on the exhibits after we get amended, correct
 That's correct. Then when we do the ordinance as a whole, then we bring the exhibits into it. Yeah. Once you decide on the exhibit, then we can vote on the ordinance as a whole. All right. Okay. So what discussion do we have on the amendment? Mark? I want to point out that this was developed and presented because of a lot of neighbors and the administration working together and discussion.
 It seems to be almost universally acceptable to the neighbors, and I didn't know that we would actually get there. That's a pretty tough one. So I commend the neighbors, and I commend the Ordinance Review Committee and also the Parking Administration for working together and really finding a mutually agreeable ordinance, parking ordinance. Okay.
 it's my pleasure to go ahead and amend this ordinance so that we can get it in line with the discussions that were held over the past couple weeks okay maybe this be a question for you mark would you like justin to talk about the amendment before we before we have the public discuss it or yes all right just bring it up and
 I'm sure most of you already know this because you're on ordinance review. Maybe he has some card tricks or something, too. I don't know. We put a lot of rabbits out of hand around here. Yeah. Yeah.
 Thank you, Mayor. So this, as has been stated, creates a new parking district, Wilson Park South Neighborhood parking district just south of Wilson Park, north of Maple Street, Louise Street to the north, Park Avenue, Maple Street, and Wilson Avenue would be the boundaries of that eight block radius.
 It designates the on-street parking associated with that neighborhood as residential permit only.
 parking for roughly half of the on-street spaces and then mixed use parking for the remaining half whereby a residential permit would be eligible to park in any space within the neighborhood and then in the mixed use spaces the general public would also be able to access those spaces for an hourly rate as paid parking
 The permit allocation is the ordinance that I think you'll be getting to momentarily authorizes the
 permit allocation to be managed administratively. It's not tied specifically to a certain number within the ordinance. It gives us some flexibility to ensure that an adequate amount of permits are being issued to the residents throughout the neighborhood. It allocates based on single family, multi-family, or fraternal unit designations
 So single and multifamily units that reside within the boundary of the neighborhood would be eligible for a residential permit and guest passes. However, fraternal units would not be eligible to receive a permit to park in the neighborhood. They would, however, be eligible to receive permits to park within our existing entertainment district area.
 Just south of Maple Street there are spaces available to those fraternal units as close as van de Venner Avenue just south of Maple Street that in many cases would actually probably be more proximate to their to their properties and then Yeah, the discussion about the hourly rates, so I guess we can get to that at the appropriate time, but that's at the appropriate time
 What questions do we have for Justin on this from the council? We're straight forward. Okay. Now, we'll take public comment on the amendment right now. All right, is everybody flowing with me? The amendment, and then we'll come back and we'll take more public comment on the amended ordinance.
 okay all right so same rules apply if i gets one turn at the mic there is a five minute limit unless by both the city council they give you more time or they have questions for you don't engage anybody on the council or anybody out in the public keep your comments directed to me i'll stay on topic
 Everybody got that amendment? Okay. And then we'll come back to the amended ordinance. And then please give us your name and address, if you would. So who would like to be first? Oh, I thought Paul had some comments. Okay. It seems like we're getting plenty of public comment through that vent. We need to – yes. We'll adjust the sound for you. Okay.
 Okay, so there's no public comment on the amendment. I'm gonna bring it back to the council All right, so so here we are. I think there was a motion was there a second also I'm having motion second pass amendment. Okay All right any discussion on that all right Lisa. Would you please call the roll? Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, Kenyon. Yes, Eddie Yes
 Okay, okay mayor now we get to the fun part There are two possible exhibits here one is an ordinance review committee recommendation and the other is specific rates and hours They're really the only changes in paragraph F And let me read paragraph F and the specific rates and hours it says
 Public use of paid on street parking for parking in the neighborhood permit parking district the parking rate shall be one dollar per hour From 8 a.m.. Until 2 a.m. Monday through Sunday so every day and these would be set by the City Council at that And if the council wanted to change them in the future then they could come back and pick out different times and different rates and
 The other alternative was suggested by the Ordinance Review Committee, and it's a little bit longer. It says, F, public use of paid on-street parking for parking in the Neighborhood Permit Parking District. The parking rates shall be established by the parking division within the following parameters. One, the initial paid parking rates and hours for the district.
 shall be established by the parking division upon the effective date of this ordinance. The initial rates shall not exceed two dollars per hour at any time of the day. Subsection 2, adjustments to the paid parking rates or hours shall be subject to the following limitations. A, the first adjustment to the paid parking rates and hours if necessary shall be made in the first two weeks of August 2020
 Thereafter, the paid parking rates and hours shall not be adjusted by the parking division for the period of one year. Subsection . The parking division shall conduct a utilization assessment based on peak hours and days prior to any adjustment. Subsection . Rate and hour adjustments shall be based on a deviation from ideal utilization of the paid parking spaces as determined by the parking division.
 The parking division shall increase or decrease paid parking rates by 10 cents for every five points away from the ideal utilization rate with the goal of reaching the ideal utilization rate. Subsection D. Rate adjustments shall be made in 10 cent increments and shall not exceed 50 cents per adjustment period. Subsection E.
 Adjustments to the paid parking rates or time shall be communicated through the signage in the district and the mobile parking application for 14 days prior to the implementation of the adjustment. And subsection F, rates shall not be adjusted below the rates established within the entertainment district parking zone.
 uh i had uh initially recommended specific rates and hours i felt that it probably was a decision for the city council to make that as you have in every other parking zone and because this is enforced by the criminal law i thought that was the best and safest way to do it
 However, there is this other alternative you would like, and I think Councilmember Petty, you were promoting this and gave some of the information to Blake who wrote this up. So I yield to the City Council to determine which one they want. There you go. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.
 So I feel that this this version that's titled ordinance review committee recommendation is a little bit truer to the discussion that we had At ordinance review committee in particular there are two ways that I think are worth Pointing out the first is I heard loud and clear from the neighbors that they wanted the public spaces to be priced such that there was a disincentive for members of the public to park there and
 And we discussed at the committee that the best way for doing that was to make sure that the public pricing was higher than the public pricing we charge in the entertainment district. And the version of the exhibit entitled Specific Rates and Hours doesn't do that. The other thing that we heard was that...
 None of us were certain that our first attempt to set a rate would be the correct rate.
 and anticipated that in relatively short order, a rate adjustment might be necessary. And we discussed with the Ordinance Review Committee that it may be challenging to adjust the rate, even if it was called for just by virtue of the political process, and it being an election year next year, and so on and so forth.
 So in any case, this was an attempt to address the concerns that Kit raised with the prospect of giving the administration far more flexibility as we originally discussed, and so what this tries to do is set out
 specific parameters that would have to be followed and would in effect make any rate adjustment very predictable because it's set forth in the law. So I'm not sure what the proper parliamentary procedure is. I'm certainly interested to hear from other ordinance review committee members because my intention with submitting an original draft to the city attorney's office was to try to honor our discussion in that meeting.
 Yes, to answer the parliamentary question any alderman any council member. Sorry. I've been up here too long can certainly make a motion to accept or use The exhibit one of their choice and they're both titled you don't have to necessarily do that immediately but at some point One of the council members should make a motion to accept one of these two versions Okay
 So what would you all like to do? Kyle? Well, I concur that I think this is a better representation of the ordinance review discussion that we had. Though I know with that ordinance review committee we had council members Turk and Kenyon with us as well. So since Mark was the original sponsor of this and this came up with your initiative,
 I was hoping that you would share your thoughts on the two that we've presented here. And I'm curious to hear how the sort of parameterized version from the ordinance review discussion fits with what you were expecting when it came out of there. OK, I have Teresa on the floor next. OK, Mark. From the meeting that I attended, meetings,
 I think what Matthew just read is more representative of what was discussed at the meeting. And so I think that there is a utility in this since we're just starting the parking district again so we can adjust the rates without having to go through the complete political process. These rates will establish a baseline, and like Matthew said, Council Member –
 So, what's your thoughts, Petty? What? No. Council Member Petty said is that, I'm just crazy, this is easier to adjust without the political process, and I totally agree with that. So, from my point of view, that is what I understood at the nominating committee meeting, and I'm sure the neighbors would have something to say about it also.
 I appreciate all the hard work that everybody has put into this, all the creative energy, the Ordinance Review Committee, the neighbors with all these great ideas. And I'm really pleased that we've gotten so close to getting this done and everybody happy. However, I just feel that what Councilmember Petty has put together is really complicated.
 And so I would just recommend that we set the rate at $2 an hour, that we just simplify this whole process, leave it there for at least a year, see how it works. It'll take a while because we'll have these high
 event situations, we'll have rush, we'll have different kinds of parties, and it'll take a while until people get the message, until things settle down, and we'll have a pretty good suite of information after a year or a year and a half where we could make those rate adjustments. But I just feel that this is a very complex start, and I would recommend that we start much simpler by setting the price at $2 an hour.
 So, Sarah. Yes. If we vote on this tonight, whichever way we vote, how long does it take to put it into effect? Because on the ordinance review, we've got, let's see, the first adjustment would be made in the two weeks of August 2020, but how long does it take to get it put into effect?
 Well, the ordinance would take effect in 30 days from passage, 31 days. And then there would be some administrative necessities that need to take place, much of which could probably take place during that time. You know, best guess is we would probably have something up and running shortly after the first of the year.
 Okay. So that gives us roughly seven days. You think you can get the residential permits all delivered and everything by 31 days? We've been presumptive and have gone ahead and included some additional orders for additional permits should that be needed. Okay. So I was just making the assumption that it would take a couple of months. We've got holidays and all of that in there. And I just want to make sure that I wasn't dreaming up something that was crazy. So thank you. Okay.
 A question for Justin. Well, I was gonna say before you sat down, but you got there. Sorry. We'll all be a little sharper after 10 p.m. I'm sure. You've had a chance, I assume, to read through the sort of algorithm that's written out here. Do you have any concerns with administering that from from your office resources? No, no concerns. I mean, this is something that we could, I feel like we can manage. We'll be collecting utilization
 data anyway. It's a process that's already baked in to our normal course of business. So, no, I think all of these criteria are very doable. And we'd be looking at, I guess, a periodic annual review in August every year, or is that kind of what you envision? Probably, yeah. You know, it doesn't Yeah, I think that would
 Okay. Thank you. Okay. So, Matthew. Well, I want to say again that I feel strongly that the exhibit titled Ordinance Review Committee Recommendation is reflective of what we heard in terms of what the public wanted most and also the feedback we had at the Ordinance Review Committee itself.
 I do appreciate that it's more complicated than simply setting the rate, but I will note that if the proposal is to set the rate high at the beginning, such as in the case of $2 per hour and then take another look at it at some point next year, that that's precisely what is proposed in the Ordinance Review Committee recommendation.
 August of next year is the time to make the first adjustment because we would have a full semester's worth of data to inform that decision. And setting that date of August puts a deadline on making sure that the first rate adjustment happens before students return and rush week begins. So I actually take the view that this is very practical. So in any case, I'd like to move that we
 amend the ordinance to refer to the exhibit titled Ordinance Review Committee Recommendations. Well, I want to be sure I'm right because Theresa basically said she wanted to set the rating too, but I don't know if you said that was on motion.
 I did not move, I did not make a motion for that. It was really a discussion point. But one thing I'd like to say while I have the floor, Council Member Petty, what is ideal utilization? You did not really identify that in item, I think it's item C. Yes, yes, thank you. And I would refer that question to Justin, our parking program director.
 For on street spaces the you know nationwide standard is 80% So we would apply something very similar 75 to 80 percent Mr. Mayor I would suggest that even if you want to use this algorithm to adjust the rate in the future It would be appropriate for the City Council to actual set the rate tonight to where it's going to start and the hours that you're interested in
 And then planning, I mean, the parking staff can look at how it's being used and then adjust it at that point in time. But I would suggest that, you know, you choose some rate between $1 and $2, whatever you want to get to, but actually set a rate tonight that can be adjusted using your factors that you've set forth in here rather than saying the parking division is going to set the rate as long as it's not over $2. Okay.
 Would you be amenable to thinking about going ahead and setting some rate tonight, at least to start with? I'm certainly amenable to it. What I'm most hesitant about is me choosing what that figure should be, and I'd prefer to hear the best guess of the parking division for what they think the best initial rate should be. Well, our initial inclination was 8 a.m. to 2 a.m. pricing, $1 an hour. Okay.
 for the entire time, but in this case, at least until probably 6 p.m., so that would ensure that the rate would be higher than the entertainment district from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., and then for the remaining time, 6 p.m. to 2 a.m.,
 Somewhere between a dollar and two and two dollars. I don't know that we want to go all the way to two dollars right off the bat I Don't know if we want to go to a dollar fifty and split the difference, but I would certainly be interested in any Any input you might have Your suggestion that we set the initial rate in
 in the initial hourly rate in the ordinance. Did you have another suggestion or was that? No, that would, it would just replace number one up there which says that it'll be set by the parking division and it should not exceed two dollars. If you all would actually set a rate and the hours and then after that everything else remains the same and they can adjust it as it goes along to try to get the ideal parking
 And Justin, did I understand what you just laid out that you had a price change at 6 p.m.? Yes. And that's based on the utilization studies that you've conducted in the area in the past? Yes, the peak of the peak occurs in the evening, one day a week. On all other dates and times, it's actually more heavily utilized from the morning to
 but i think to ensure overnight parking is available for residents it it could be justified to have the higher price within the entertainment district or within uh at in the evening and also because it has to be higher than the entertainment district and it's a dollar an hour in the entertainment district during that time as well okay and if you had to choose a ideal utilization rate to codify would it be 75 or 80 or some other number um
 Well, I would say 80% is the national standard. So we're certainly justified in using that number. However, if we want to have something lesser than that, just for sort of safety's sake, if you will, then I'm certainly comfortable with 75%.
 Okay, and kit would proper motion then what would a proper motion be to amend to this version with your suggested Inclusions it would be to amend the orders review committee recommendations on an exhibit one by amending subsection F one which initially says initial parking ratio be set by them instead you would set it and and the hours and I
 Don't know if you want to keep the initial rate shall not exceed two dollars per hour at any day of the time But you can do that leave that in or remove it depending on what you want to do But that's where you put it in subsection one you'd put the hours and what the rates would be initially Okay, so so moved with the hours in section hours and rates in section one to read from 8 a.m. To 6 p.m The hourly rate is to be one dollar from 6 p.m. To 2 p.m. The hourly rate is to be a dollar fifty and
 and justin did i understand what you laid out prior that that was for every day of the week yes yeah okay uh let the amendment reflect that um and further that uh in uh sub paragraph to b a new sentence is added that says the ideal utilization rate shall be 75 percent
 Could you repeat that last one, please? The ideal utilization rate is to be 75%. 75%, thank you. So the amendment to the amendment, before we get to the amended ordinance, would be a dollar an hour from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. And then from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. would be $1.50, correct?
 Okay. With residential permits available as previously discussed. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I have a question. So what happens if... Well, just, just, sorry. I got a whole bunch of folks here lit up on my screen, so that is your amendment? That's correct. Motion. Okay. All right. Do we have a second on this amendment? Yeah. Okay.
 I'll second it. All right. Somebody give me something. Sarah, are you going to second it? Yeah, I'm going to second it. All right. Yeah. All right. We have an amendment on the amendment, right? For the exhibit. We're just talking about the exhibit at this point in time. It's going to get us to where we need to go. And I do have one question. Matthew, are you going to remove the last sentence or not? The last sentence saying the initial rate shall not exceed $2 per hour at any time of day. Yes.
 It seems redundant doesn't it yeah, so yes, you're moving it yes, okay? Okay, now we have an amendment to the amendment Let's start some discussion on the amendment to the event to the exhibit. Yeah, this is Let's take it one time Sarah. I believe you're next in the box okay, so
 Teresa and I were just talking about this and does, okay so we've got our amendment now to this amendment.
 Yeah, you sort of got the exhibit. Now we have an amendment to the exhibit, which takes it back to an amended price. Okay, I've got two questions then. 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., we've got one price. 6 p.m. to 2 a.m., we've got another price. Do we have a price that's 2 to 8? No. It just says the 6 to 2. Would you like one? No. We can put an amendment on the amendment to the exhibit. No, let's not do that.
 You might ask Justin, I don't think we're gonna have our parking people going around at 2 a.m. Okay, and So we've changed the ideal utilization to 75% so on item C on our pricing if Utilization comes in at 70% it goes down by 10 cents. Is that correct? Yes, okay
 If it goes down by 72%, does it stay the same? I mean, we've got 5% increments there. Does it just... So, like, if it goes up to 80, it goes up 10%. Or it goes up to 10 cents, excuse me. We don't have... But it always has to be five-point increments, not two... That's the way it was written, to keep it as simple as possible. Okay. Oh, yes. Okay. Sorry. I've got it. So we could have a change of four points.
 four points and it wouldn't change the price at all. Okay. All right. Okay. Thank you. It would be better as a policy rather than a codified ordinance, wouldn't it? Oh, I love codified ordinances. Okay. Teresa. Teresa.
 Okay, I'm sorry. I'm gonna bring this up again because I didn't get clear about this so from 2 a.m. To 8 a.m What is the price is there no charge? So if I pull my car in and 2 0 1 8 a.m And I get it out there at 7 59. It's free second. Just beat the system Hmm, I I don't know that I would support that I believe that's true for all of our parking isn't it Justin I
 Oh, I didn't know I could beat the system that way. Okay. The pricing ends at 2 a.m. in the entertainment district. Okay. All right. Thank you for that. Thanks. Okay.
 I fully support the amendment with a question about the time of the rate shift being 6 p.m. It sounded like that was based on the price change in the entertainment district, and I hope that some neighbors will speak to this when we get a little closer.
 when we get around the public comment i wonder if a more appropriate time for a price shift here in a residential parking zone might be um four or five pm just because i remember it's been a while since we've since we've spent hours talking about parking up here but i remember one of the issues being people coming home from work not being able to find a spot and i know it's appropriate to i
 to use the parking in this area during the day when there's fewer people home and more people in class, but it might be useful to set that time in such a way that it incentivizes students to get their cars out before the residents come home from work. So I will support the amendment as stated, but that is a question that I would like to have some neighbors speak to when they come up. Okay, all right. So what we're discussing
 are we are we done discussing that amongst okay mark would it be possible that uh council member petty could take a friendly amendment and change that to four o'clock can can we do that rather than go through the whole routine i don't think a seconder must also agree
 Okay, so it would go from six to four? Seconder must also agree. Oh. Okay, you know, I'm starting to get some concerns about us setting this policy, and the thing that I really liked about the unamended exhibit was that it empowered staff to make data-driven decisions about how to manage this, rather than us making political decisions.
 So I'm going to pull off my second because I am no longer in support of all these amendments. And I really think that this is a decision that we should be empowering staff to make using data. All right, Dan. So I guess the second to Matthew's amendment to the amendment.
 to the amended ordinances. So we would need another second in order to continue this discussion. I'll second whenever I get to. I've got three ahead of you. I've got Mark next. I will second the amendment. Oh, okay. Now that's to go from eight to six and a dollar. Oh, four. Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. Eight to four. And then from four to two.
 correct i want to be sure i got this right now then four to two it goes to a dollar fifty correct four to two a dollar fifty yep okay i make sure i got it all straight yeah i just want to point out that in in section c this uh they still have the opportunity to make rate and hour adjustments later on once data is available so i look at this discussion as as just setting the initial rate not impacting the overall policy in perpetuity so
 Alright any other discussion on that now we're going to take some public comment now this is This is the amendment to the exhibit which is the ordinance review committee recommendation. Am I correct? That's right. Okay, and it sets a rate from 8 to 4 at a dollar an hour and Then from 4 to 2 a.m At a dollar 50 an hour now. We're going to be voting on that. I
 So now let's go over the rules, okay? Everybody gets one turn at the microphone after all of that I'm sure you won't want more than one turn at the microphone, but but five minutes is Is the limit unless the City Council votes to give you more time or they have questions for you They don't engage anybody on the council or out in the public keep your comments directed to me stay on the topic the topic is the amendment to the exhibit and
 which is from 8 to 4, $1 an hour, and 4 to 2 a.m. at $1.50 an hour. Okay? So that's the topic, and please give us your name and address. And who would like to be first? I want to be sure everybody's got it. Just come up. Here we go.
 I'm Barbara Dillon from 126 Otto Street. Basically very happy with what's going on. I have two concerns. One is that the utilization figure that Justin presented, I'm not sure what the criteria were for that, whether it was efficiency or profit from parking or whatever, but remember that the purpose of this is to preserve the quality of our neighborhood.
 and not to make it look like a parking lot. And so I am really in favor of a lower utilization rate. I don't know what that rate would be and I understand that we need to experiment.
 but the purpose is not maximum efficiency. The purpose is quality of life in the neighborhood. We have children that come in and out of our houses to visit, we have, et cetera. I like the 4 p.m. thing. And the other comment I wanted to make is just a cautionary statement that whatever data is collected may be useless when the university reopens in the fall, because we were really surprised this year with the increase in the number of students
 sorority members and I don't know that we can anticipate if we did the data you know what I'm trying to say but but thank you all for everything
 Hi, my name is Allison Thoma and I live at 414 West Isla Street. First I just wanted to thank the committee for all the hard work that they've done on this. You guys have really taken into account what the residents have wanted. I agree with Barbara when it comes to the utilization rate. I'm sure that the national standard is 80%, but my guess is that's probably paid parking. In most cities around the country, paid parking is going to be
 Not necessarily in a residential area. So I had a similar concern and wanting a lower utilization rate The second concern that I had was with the algorithm to do pricing I just wanted to make sure that once again the purpose is to protect the neighborhood and with the disincentives that we have Of course the higher the disincentive to park through the happier the neighbors are going to be we understand we can't always get what we want and
 But I would ask that there be a cap At the utilization rate that it does not go below the rate of the entertainment district So if utilization goes to a point that it goes below a dollar, you know Of course people are going to start parking there more which will then make it go up So you guys are constantly, you know, it's gonna be like an AC trying to get to you know That perfect temperature you guys are constantly gonna have to change it So I would just add that into the amendment to protect that Thank you guys so much
 I should point out that's already there in subsection 8 that F rather the rate shall not be adjusted below the rates We established within the entertainment district, so they will not go below the entertainment district rates regardless Okay, who else would like to address this on this on the amendment of the exhibition? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. All right, Matthew. I
 So I did want to take a chance. I know that a lot of this came out of, it's new to a lot of people. So the reason that the way the utilization rate is set or its intention is to determine how many spaces should be generally empty and available for residents or the public to use during peak hours.
 So we wrote the ordinance to set the rate according to peak usage, not according to the usage every hour or every day. So what it says now is 75% is that if there are 10 publicly available spaces on your block, this doesn't refer to the residential reserve spaces. Okay.
 so referring only the public the mixed use spaces if there are 10 on your block then you would expect even during peak hours on peak day that somewhere between two to three are still available uh to park in even on the the most occupied days um so if uh if there is a better number
 I think it's something that we should consider right now. I think that utilization during peak hours is far exceeding 75%. Justin, I'd ask you in a moment
 Well, let's do that now. Can you refresh us on what we saw in terms of peak hour utilization so far? And also, if you have anything else about appropriate utilization rates, I think that'd be useful for us all to hear. Yeah, so utilization was over 80% on what I call the next block of ILS. That's the block between Van Deventer and Shady.
 As well as the whole of Vandivinter. It was around a hundred percent for the whole of Vandivinter and over 80% on Louise the western half of Louise between Wilson and in Vandivinter so those particular blocks certainly Exceeded this this utilization rate that we're talking about you look at the neighborhood as a whole It averaged around a
 I want to say 67, 68% taking into account all of the spaces that were unregulated and available to the public. At the time, I suspect that that rate will go up if we're only looking at mixed use spaces and the supply will be much less.
 And then in terms of, you know, utilization generally, I mean, I think for a residential neighborhood like this, it's justifiable to have a lower, you know, a lower than sort of acceptable utilization rate. I've referred to that 80% standard. You know, it's kind of the urban downtown type of environment. I think a residential environment, it's reasonable to have a...
 A lower target. Do you have a benchmark for a lower lower target from anywhere else? I really don't. Well, you know, I'll just say it's especially the councilman, the seconder. If there's a better a better utilization rate that's more in favor. I'm open. I think in a lot of ways for charting a little bit of new territory.
 And also appreciate everybody's patience as we work through some of these details out in the open tonight. I'm so optimistic that we can get something done relatively quickly. It seems like these are important but relatively minor against the new ordinance that's been written.
 So I'm curious to hear if there's a better preference, although I would express a caution in reducing it too far and being a little bit radical compared to some of the benchmarks that we do already have. Okay, sir.
 Thank you. I feel that it's important that we're not just disincentivizing people to park there to protect the integrity of the neighborhood, but this is a public resource, so we have a responsibility to ensure the optimized use of it, just as we do with tax dollars or public lands or anything that we need to have an optimized use. And I think it's important to also keep in context the fact that we've got...
 the alternating sides of residential reserve parking. So I think through that program, we're doing a great job providing parking for the neighborhood, which was a primary goal of this. And so then when we recognize that maybe 50% of this is going to be mixed use,
 I think that that higher utilization rate is appropriate. I mean, I feel like 75% is even a little bit low when best practices are 80, but I'm willing to support that as a starting point. But I think we have to keep in mind the need to balance the responsibility to optimize use of this public resource while protecting the, the availability of parking in the neighborhood, which I believe we are already doing with the residential reserve space. But, you know, with a,
 Utilization rate of 75% that's two to three spaces out of every ten that are empty So that's spaces on every block that we're going to be seeing and I think that that's absolutely adequate for the parking needs of the neighborhood
 Okay, Sloan. A couple things. One, I think the utilization is going to go down. Even if you charge zero dollars and require a freshman to install an app and use an app, that's going to disincentivize a lot of people. I'm okay with the 75 percent. I don't think we'll actually get it except at those peak points. 75 percent.
 So I think we should stick by 75 and not go below that. And also I don't doubt Council Member Kenyon's ability to propose a new ordinance if this doesn't work. And I'm not sure if that's a good idea.
 I also would think that City Council would make any changes even before We get to August if there's there's major issues Appreciate everybody's hard work on this. This looks like how government should work. It takes a little bit of time But I think we got something good. I think we should go ahead and support this amended exhibit it's very much a compromise between all the
 either in that we've heard as far as the rate, and I think 75% is good. And as Matthew said, we can come back and change this if there's some problem. It's new. And this is such a unique and unusual situation, and one that became very evident overnight. So it became evident overnight. It's going to take us a while to figure out what the heck we're doing. But if we can start with this amended version,
 the exhibit and then add the exhibit to the amendment I think we've got a good deal and I live in the neighborhood So I'm looking for a good deal and if you don't live in the neighborhood and you want to visit me You've got a good deal. This has turned out incredibly Good for visitors and for neighbors as well as the public in general. Thanks. Okay, Teresa. I
 I agree we're getting there we're very very close I just wanted to answer ask councilmember Petty why he chose August as the time period to adjust the rate because I do have some concerns about that time period you've got rush that's coming in there you've got the university that might be increasing their student population or making big changes that could influence that distribution of parking places
 Are you open to another changing that time period at all? I mean, to be honest, I didn't give it much thought beyond that's kind of when the changes are already taking place in the district. And it seemed like the natural time for a rate adjustment to take effect. So I had envisioned that we would have.
 not perfect data, but useful information coming from graduation activities in May and how those had impacted the area. And I would expect, you know, come August, we'd also be looking at how the adjustment had been impacted by the major activities surrounding rush week and the activities that follow.
 I think you could make a pro con list for almost any month out of the year and Beyond the rationale that I've shared tonight There's not much to it for me. Would you be open to because I think I'm not totally dialed into rush week But I think it's like the first Maybe the second week in August would would you be open to making the readjustment like on sept in September rather than in August I?
 I personally am open to it, but would ask both Justin Clay to comment on what his opinion is in terms of the best time to have that in the work plan, and also Council Member Kenyon if he has opinions about when the best time to do that would be. Okay. Justin, why don't you come out?
 Yeah, I mean, I think any timeframe is going to be workable for us. There's going to be events taking place year-round that affect utilization and create peak utilizations at different points in time. So, you know, I think we'll have enough benchmarks between now and the first two weeks of August to determine that peak utilization and have a good snapshot of the situation. I think if we push it back, we can certainly work.
 work with that as well. Well since I did second it, I actually like it the way it is just because it's there and I
 If we're going to do utilization, it's not utilization that day. It's months, right? We're going to have months of data. We're going to have data in the spring when everyone's doing their spring thing. We're going to have data in the summer where everyone's having that summer vacation. And we're going to have it in early August where it is chaos. So I think we're getting all three and we can balance it out. And so I think August might be.
 ideal here's what I know we have a lot of neighbors here that probably have the perfect solution and as we get to the next section to we approve this we'll have the exhibit and then we'll go to the amendment you'll have plenty of time to let us know that perfect solution I think this is pretty darn near perfect I really do
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm a numbers nerd and I have enjoyed working on this project. It's not my part of town, but when this came up and we started talking about it, it seemed like a sort of puzzle that could be cracked, and I think this is a
 pretty darn good stab at it so um hoping that we're moving towards uh voting on this soon i just wanted to real quickly thank the neighbors sincerely for all the hours that they've come out to make sure that we really understand the concerns because there have been a lot of different angles on this that have gotten worked into into the solution and they were they were persistent in making sure that uh um
 that they weren't just heard but also understood and The ordinance review committee I thought was an
 an interesting conversation, a lot of consideration of those different angles. And I want to thank that group for being innovative and looking for ways to strike the balance between a bunch of different concerns and goals. But in particular, thank Mark for bringing this forward and getting the ball rolling and also being very patient with us while we've tossed around ideas that were way outside, I think, the comfort zone of what you were originally hoping for. So you've been a good sport on that.
 This is a conversation that we had after one of those meetings that this is a very unique situation that's causing their parking problem. But I think what we've come up with is a useful template that.
 May give us a tool we can pull out the next time we have a neighborhood with a different parking problem. We've already got a Solution with parameters that we can tweak as we need to so I hope this becomes a useful usable tool In the future and I think everybody that worked on it Yes, I think You know, I've read over this several times now and I think I have a good grasp of it and
 It doesn't seem that difficult after the third or fourth reading, but the first time I was like, oh, I don't know about this But I think that that we have the ability to tweak this and I think that even though this doesn't go in a nice linear fashion like one plus one equals two we've got subset B C D and E and here ABCDE through there So we've got we've got a lot of that in there but I think we can still work with this the neighborhood seems to be happy with this and
 and I'm ready to go ahead and vote on it. So. Well, I'm gonna make sure we do that. I just wanna make sure I remember what I'm voting on since we've talked all around it. Yeah, hold on, I'm gonna go through this again. All right, we got an amendment to the Ordinance Review Committee Recommendation, Exhibit One, right? We gotta vote on that first. That's correct. Then we go to the exhibit,
 Right, the amended exhibit, and then we take it to the... Select that as the exhibit that will be attached to the ordinance. I just want to be sure I'm trucking on this thing right now. Okay, so right now we're going to vote on from 8 to 4, the rate will be $1, and then from 4 to 2 a.m. will be $1.50, right? Okay.
 Well, did I get that wrong? Does that include the 75% ideally? It does. It does. I'm sorry. I didn't mention that. I've written that down. I'll put that in. Okay. All right. Everybody good? Okay. Let's vote on that. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Tiras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Now we have the amended exhibit one from the ordinance review committee recommendation, correct? That's correct. Okay. Do I have a motion and a second on that one? So moved to adopt the ordinance review. Amended exhibit one from the ordinance review committee. That's my motion, thank you. Okay. And Swamp? I'll second when the button comes up. Okay. Okay. What discussion do we have on that?
 you want to hear from staff or anything okay now let's take some public comment on the exhibit amended exhibit one from the ordinance review committee recommendation is there any public comment on that one okay i'm going to bring it back to the council we have a motion in a second correct all right yes we do all right any final discussion on that one all right lisa would you please call the roll
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, all right. Thank you all now. We're back to the amended ordinance. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third So moved so second motion is second to go to the third and final read Lisa. Would you please call the roll? Oh?
 Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scruggs. Yes.
 And nor do some in section 72 point 1 8 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone To remove the 400 block of Isla Street from the entertainment district parking zone and to enact section 72 point 2 0 Wilson Park South neighborhood permit parking district of the fable City code to authorize a combination of residential only and mixed-use parking in the Wilson Park South neighborhood Okay, Matthew
 Okay, so I think I figured out all those votes we did. It's a little complex. So, yeah, the next vote will be the vote that decides whether or not this becomes actual law. Yep. And...
 But before we did that, I wanted to take the opportunity to thank a bunch of people because while this hasn't been an unusual lawmaking process compared to a lot of other ordinances that we pass, it has been an extended process.
 First, I wanted to thank Councilmember Kenyon for giving it a fair chance. And without it having a fair chance, it wouldn't have happened. And I want to thank the members of the Ordinance Review Committee for taking the time to do an extra committee meeting to try and work out the details. It was a real nuts and bolts meeting, and those are actually the kinds of meetings that I personally really appreciate being able to be a part of.
 Of course, I also want to thank Justin Clay for helping out with the process and really
 being an architect of both the ordinance, but also the public engagement, which I think was critical. And that leads me to the last group I'd like to thank, which are the neighbors. I think that you've been not just witness to an important process, but you've made yourself a part of it. And there are parts of the law
 that I think anybody might like to change or tweak a little bit, but ultimately what we have here is a consensus proposal that everyone more or less likes or even likes more than a little bit.
 And that kind of consensus is actually unusual in our normal proceedings. And I don't think we would have such a reliable or obvious consensus if we hadn't been working with the group of neighbors that we did get to work with. So thank you for participating in exactly the right manner. Okay. Any other comments from the council?
 All right, now we take some public comment on the amended ordinance. Do we have any public comments on the amended ordinance? All right, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Any final comments from the council? I, too, want to thank everybody that's worked on this, the council and the staff. Justin did hours and hours and hours of work on this. Peter Nearingarden also helped on this, too.
 I want to thank Mark, I want to thank you for bringing this forward. You just, it's like I always say, if you want to know what the neighbors want, you need to just ask the neighbors, correct? Ask them what they want. And I want to thank the neighbors that came out. And, you know, we were at a meeting last night and we had a meeting
 over a hundred there at that one so folks are coming out standing up and making their voice be heard and that's what government at the end of the day is all about it's always government by the people and you just don't want to ever forget that and i want to thank all of you i want to thank the council and all the patients all the way around on this this has been a slow process but it's been very very good i think a learning process for all of us too i always learn something every time we go through one of these
 So, with that, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Jerez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Moving on to new business. Just this one time. Thank you all.
 All right, under new business. Can we get used to being applauded for parking decisions? No kidding. I started to say, we've spent a career on this. All right, number one on new business, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding except to quote any amount of $19,870. Let's get it.
 $19,874 plus political taxes, freight charges from JCT Industries Incorporated for the repair of a submersible pump for the Gregg Avenue lift station
 And to approve the budget's adjustment. Not quite as exciting, but Kit, would you like to read that for us? Yes, I would, Mayor. Whereas pump number three at the Gregg Avenue lift station was recently taken out of service and shipped to JCI Industries to disassemble, inspect, and provide a quote for the repair of the pump. And whereas pursuant to Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14DD,
 formal competitive bidding is not necessary for repair of quote hidden or unknown damages unquote now therefore it be done ordained by the City Council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one
 that the City Council and the City of Fable, Arkansas hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14EE, repair of hidden or unknown damages, the repair of the pump does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts a quote in the amount of $19,874 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges from JCI Industries Incorporated for the repair of the submersible pump
 Greg Avenue lift station in section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Archer hereby approves a budget adjustment a copy of which Is attached to this ordinance? Okay, Tim Thank You mayor the Greg Avenue lift station is equipped with 480 horsepower pumps and number three was recently pulled in response to abnormal pump operation and
 preliminary inspection by our staff indicated that there was some damaged impeller so we sent it off to JCI in Joplin for a full disassembly inspection and repair proposal. JCI found that the extensive internal damage stemming from a broken drive shaft
 needed a new drive shaft or a quick hook calls for an impeller, seals, and bearings. They submitted a price proposal of $19,874. With taxes, it's a total of $21,811.72. And as I said at the agenda session, a new pump of this magnitude is about $65,000. And because we had to determine the damage and hidden damage of equipment that's already been purchased, we are asking to use Arkansas Code...
 uh 1911 203 14 dd and this item was presented to the water circuit committee on october the 8th with a unanimous vote to afford it to the full council for a recommendation with a recommendation for approval okay what questions do we have tim on this okay what public comment do we have on this no okay i'll bring it back to the council slow uh move to suspend the rules and go to second reading son second we have a motion to second to go to the second reading
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. In order to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $19,874 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from JCI Industries Incorporated for the repair of a submersible pump for the Gregg Avenue lift station and to approve a budget adjustment. So moved.
 Move to suspend the rules and go to third and final read. Teresa. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final read. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Hutch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scruggs. Yes. Yes.
 And your ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $19,874 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from JCI Industries Incorporated for the repair of a submersible pump for the Gregg Avenue lift station and to approve a budget adjustment. Any final comments from counsel? At least of which please call the roll.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 the amount of seven hundred seventy one thousand two hundred seventeen dollars and forty cents for the design of a multi-modal improvements to the Porter Road Dean Street Sycamore Street and popular Street corridor and budget Justin thank you mayor this project begins at intersection by 49 and Porter and follows along along Porter Road and then along Dean and then
 a little bit of Garland and then to Sycamore and then uses the Razorback Greenway over to Poplar and then on east to College Avenue about 2.3 mile corridor that's really been identified as a really good multimodal route has a lot of potential for that. So this is a new bond project and we're going through the steps we've selected Olsen to move forward with the
 preliminary design and final design. I wanted to also mention in the 2000, early 2020 we'll have a public input meetings that are included in this contract probably like a Charette style to really help get the best design for this corridor. This is part of our bond? It is part of our bond, yes. Okay.
 city county any questions from the council yeah just to confirm and i think we talked about this at uh transportation committee but this is uh still in the design phase and the the exact placement and rooting isn't entirely done until we get through those design shreds correct thanks any other questions all right any public comment on this so now i'm bringing back to the council okay
 Matthew? Mayor, I move that we pass the resolution. Kyle? Second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Good project. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Tiras? Yes. Martin? Yes. Kinyan? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scruggs?
 uh number three a resolution to thank the walton family foundation to authorize mayor jordan to accept a grant from the walton family foundation in the amount of 410 dollars to fund the design bicycle pedestrian improvements along porter road dean
 Street Sycamore Street and Poplar Street to create the Midtown trail and to prove a budget adjustment Thanks mayor. Yep. This is related to the same project The Walton Family Foundation is interested in splitting the design fees with on the project I
 Some interesting statistics that makes them interested, I think, in the project is it does align with our goals of connecting residents within a half mile of the corridor. There's estimated 6,000, no, I'm sorry, 12,000 residents within a half mile of this corridor so that we can get connected up. And within a quarter mile, there are over 3,000 jobs. So that's some census data that really resonates. OK. What questions do we have, council?
 all right any public public comments on this i'll go back to the council god motion we approve the resolution please uh second all right thank you all any final comments from the council i personally want to thank the walton foundation family foundation for continuing to invest in this city they've been tremendous partners for us so i want to make that public statement tonight all right please please call the roll
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning prediction RZN 19-6833 for approximately 0.51 acres located at 1278 West Hendricks Street from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A,
 and the legal description exhibit be both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, residential single-family 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single-family 8 units per acre. Section 2 is that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Mayor and Council, this request is located about a block west of Garland Avenue north of Hendrick Street. Hendrick Street is between Mount Comfort and Dean. The applicant request states that they wish to build four single-family homes on this half acre. The request is rezoned from RSF 428.
 The surrounding zoning is RSF 4 on three sides, RI 12 on the west side, and that lot is also a half an acre and is occupied by two triplexes. The adopted plans, it's designated as a residential neighborhood area. It encourages traditional neighborhood areas that incorporate low intensity uses primarily.
 Issues that were discussed at the Planning Commission were appropriate density and preserving the neighborhood character. This is, I think, a typical post-war neighborhood. It has open drainage, it has narrow streets, and it has a wide variety of buildings.
 Lot sizes, some of them are half an acre on two sides of Hendricks, all the way to lot sizes just down the street that are less than what would be required under the present zoning 30-foot width. If you'll recall, the difference between RSF 4 and 8 is lot size. 8 requires 8,000 square feet of land.
 And four requires 8,000 square feet and RSF8 requires 5,000 square feet. The frontage is also different. RSF4 requires 70 feet and RSF8 requires 50 feet. So it's a typical post-war neighborhood, wide variety of lot sizes.
 different uses and they have it has kind of developed in a eclectic pattern i mean that in a positive sense uh presently it has large trees and small trees and houses in a variety of locations within those wooded areas and it it has a variety of land uses um the uh
 planning commission staff do recommend approval of the rfs8 the finding was that it created a a desirable transition from the ri12 the six plex and the surrounding rsf4 i'd be happy to answer any questions i believe mr fugit is here the applicant yeah like speak for the council
 I had this bill if you get I'm just I don't have anything to say just happy to answer any questions. Okay What question? I actually have a question for staff Sure, I received several emails about this and people are concerned that using a cluster Pattern that we could actually go up to eight houses How viable is that? the RSF 8 district is a district that does allow cluster housing under the cluster housing ordinance and
 but only as a conditional use. The multifamily districts allow it as a permitted use. So in order to exercise that density, they would have to seek a conditional use permit. Okay, thank you. Any other questions for the applicant,
 Stat, Tracy. Hi, thank you, Mayor. Coroner, could you please, or somebody, maybe the mayor, remind us what kind of mistake that was made on Hendricks in the past? Was it the unit right next door to this, to the west of it? Yes. An identical size lot, half acre, was incorrectly mapped
 uh when the uh digital zoning map was created in the early odd years i believe and um it wasn't discovered until an investment had been made and then council ended up rezoning it well not all the council were um were there promises made at that time to the neighborhood uh and apologies or any kind of mediation made uh with because of that mistake
 about that that mapping mistake my understanding is the council um did say they they wanted to respect the existing neighborhood but i don't think that there were uh promises made that that you couldn't seek another single family district i think this is um rsf8 is a single family district it's not uh it's not the density of ri12
 but having ri12 right next door uh impacts that makes it a little bit you i think you said transition or something like that to the effect yeah so it does have a yeah okay thank you any questions council all right let's take some public comment i'm jared lane i live at 1247 south maxwell drive i've been there 24 years and yes there's been some promises that they weren't in your papers i
 I was there when they were building them. When we had the meetings there on the properties at the end, when they built the duplexes right there on Garland and Hendricks, right there on the corner, they said, yes, this is not going to happen again, and here we are again. And there's not enough land on a half acre for eight individual homes.
 Now, I understand if it gets rezoned, he can put four in there. That's what I understand. Yeah, he can put four in there. That's right, Garner. Four in there? If the single-family homes are going to need street funnies, there's a possibility of doing what the two triplexes did. They actually dedicated a 20-foot right-of-way to take that route, I believe, what takes some variances from the planning commission, but it's possible.
 perhaps a more economical route would be this this is more than a hundred foot wide with the RFS 8 you could do two lots plus 280 use and save a lot of money on infrastructure cost and not have to get any variances the other route would be to go through the conditional use permit process to
 yet a driveway that accesses the four single-family homes. But I think tonight, what's in front of the council tonight is this appropriate zoning. We're cutting in on his time here. The streets on Maxwell, on Hendricks, on Stevenson, they're very, very thin. They're not a wide street. And the mistakes we've already made over there, I've sat there and watched four generations
 from Mr. Parrish that made Oak Plaza and his son to where his kids I went to school with to their kids and they're all still right there. But you're not gonna see that if you start building these houses like that in your single dwelling homes. They're not gonna wanna buy right next to quad housing like that. I'm sorry, but I'm against it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this?
 My name is Joyce Richards and I live at 1673 North Stevens, which T-Bones with Hendricks. And I have lived there since 1974. Can you move the mic down a little bit? Oh, sorry, Counselor. Now I've lost my place. Infrastructure is coming up in this town because of all the building that's going on and the drainage that's involved.
 So if we talk a little bit about drainage in that quadrant, that's 49 Dean, Garland, and Mount Comfort. You're asking for additional coverage right there on Hendricks. So if you look across and you see the avenue and you see Garden Park and you also see a request for, I'm not sure what it is on Mount Comfort, but it's for rezoning or building there.
 If you go directly north to Dean, there is a huge area there where they have just recently cut down many trees. If you go to the corner of Lewis and Dean, there's another one on that northwest corner. And if you go on down to...
 the corner where the new police and fire station is going to go in. You're talking infrastructure, you're talking drainage, and it's all going to go down to West End. And those people have been flooded out time and time again. And I don't think we should send any more water that way. And it just, putting this many structures on that little piece of land just simply doesn't fit the neighborhood.
 And it's just instead of infill, you're doing overfill or overkill, which seems to be happening too much in our town. And I think that's about what I have to say. And I do want to thank you for saving the Lewis soccer field. Oh, and the two catalpa trees in the front yard, don't we have a tree ordinance that would protect them? And if you read in the newspaper this morning the letter,
 From Fran Alexander about what's happening in our town with trees and such if you haven't seen it, please read it Thank you. Thank you. Who else like to address this on this? Okay, and we're right back to the council sir Actually, I'm gonna see the floor to someone else This is one of the sweetest neighborhoods left in the
 this area of town and it does preserve a heritage of what a neighborhood was and what it can be. It's always good to go driving through there for me because it, it has a sense of unity in the neighborhood that neighborhoods desire. So I think that we do have to be very careful with overfill. I really, I think that there is an argument there that if it's overfill, well,
 There's the argument that we have less permeable surface, and there is water issues in this area. The amount of water that rushes down to this area has increased a lot. Think of all the impermeable rooftops and paved...
 Ground that we have if you start at harps and go all the way down to the Maxwell Hendricks neighborhood It has pushed so much water down there and we do not have the infrastructure to handle it adequately It's a concern. So I'm wondering maybe we can go on a tour with City Council before this is voted in or voted out or what it voted on that's what I'm looking for. And so there's You know
 I think that there is a real value in looking at preserving the nature of this neighborhood. So that's how I feel. Sure. Thank you. I think that we're supposed to be making appropriate infill our highest priority, and we need to be building housing.
 We have a lot of people moving in and we have a mismatch between the type of houses that we have and the demographics of our households. And what we are needing is more smaller infill households. And if you look at this lot, it is within walking distance of a grocery store, restaurants, services, an urban farm, Lewis Park.
 And our largest employer being the university. It's close to transit lines, our new multimodal transportation corridor that we just put tonight. If we're not supposed to be building infill here, where are we supposed to be building infill? And I think that the scale that they have proposed is appropriate and that it can play well with the rest of the neighborhood. So I'm going to support this.
 I'm going to agree with most of what Marsh said. I actually drove through this neighborhood I believe yesterday or the day, I can't remember.
 and looked at it, I think this is an appropriate place for a slight increase in density. Right now what's happening is that as the houses age out, which some of them are, they're getting replaced by single houses that don't fit the character already. So the character
 That's already happening with what's going in there. They don't look like the houses So I hate to see single or double houses torn down to build a single or double house It's twice the size So the developer can still make some profit This is a perfect place for increased density. I was going to mention you can get on the bus system there students could buy here and
 professors could buy here and get on the bus and then they don't have to have a car. You can walk to a grocery store. You can't walk to a park. This is where you want gentle increases and I think going from two to four is a gentle increase even if we can do four at that part. Thank you, Mayor. Well, you know this is one of those great neighborhoods close to the University and bit by bit I
 We are slowly destroying the integrity of that neighborhood, the character, the personality. You know, that neighborhood has suffered, and I use that word in big letters, from that large development behind HARPS. It has increased traffic so much. It has changed that whole area a lot. And here we go in again, and we're compounding the original mistake from the mapping error that was made.
 You know, that unit right next door, that R.I.U. unit is justifying this RSF 8. And so I'm not going to be in support of this at all, because we need to maintain that quality of the neighborhood and the character of a neighborhood. And if we continue down this path, every neighborhood around the university is going to have tiny, tiny little houses on it. And I think what we really would like is to have diverse neighborhoods
 Allow old neighborhoods to stay the way they are with that same character new neighborhoods can sprout up with infill with tiny little houses on tiny little lots that people can purchase if they choose to But I think the old neighborhoods should retain their character. Thank you I think the the only constant we're ever going to have in a university town has changed and I
 The harder we work to make an entire neighborhood contained under a glass dome so that it can't change, the less healthy it will be in the long run and the more likely it is to be bought up multiple parcels, entire blocks by a single developer who turns it into a huge apartment complex. So this is an opportunity for an incremental change that takes a...
 Half acre that's easy to buy and splits it into potentially four separate landowners that are then Diversifying their risk and and making it maybe just that little bit harder for somebody to come in and Make wholesale change on an entire neighborhood. I think councilmember Martian Scroggins made a
 pretty convincing case about the existing services here and how that fits with the need for for infill and and it's already got the things we want to put housing close to. I went through here the other day too and this is part of my regular sort of circuit back and forth between
 between downtown and home. So I see this area a lot and it's not just the unit right next door or the ones at the corner with Garland. There's also all of the apartments that are just a block away on Mount Comfort. I don't see this as being out of character with the neighborhood which is already a lot of fairly small houses. I think
 Garner's post-war description was pretty accurate. Ironically, even the new houses over here are building in a character that fits with their, they look new but they have carports instead of garages and maybe none at all. Sorry, I'm going to let that go.
 The problem I do have over here, and I think Ms. Richards nailed it, is there are some huge trees here. One of them right front and center. And I think this is going to be one of those cases where our tree preservation and stormwater controls not addressing single-family neighborhoods is going to really, really hurt. And I hope we get a chance to take a look at that very soon. You will.
 So I don't know, I don't quite know yet how that part of this is going to play for me. But it's real hard to just keep pushing all of our development further and further out because new neighborhoods don't infill. There's not a neighborhood's worth of space there for infill. If we're going to infill, we're going to do it one or two or four houses at a time on small lots or...
 Biggish Lots That are there, so I Hope that this is not a tonight decision I would really like to go out there and tour this and get a sense of this neighborhood on the ground on foot And the different things that are just within a block or even a few feet away Yes
 I'm not sure exactly how I feel about this, so I'm going to kind of weigh out the different sides that I look at. And when I look at the map here, and I've actually researched this neighborhood quite a bit, because the house next door to this, I guess it would be to the east, sold recently, I believe.
 And, you know, I had people that were looking at this house. So we spent a lot of time looking at this neighborhood. And if you look at, there are a lot of the same property owners. So you've got whole blocks that might be owned by one property owner. And all it's going to take is for that person, and they may not sell anything right now, but at some point in time, somebody's going to sell three or four houses on a block that
 It's going to come before us and they're going to put a big you know an apartment complex or something in there So you know I'm thinking this might not be Perfect, but maybe it's a better solution to have things done a little bit here and a little bit there than to have four or five houses fall to You know to rezoning and and a much larger scale infill I do have issues with
 This is a low-lying area, and I don't know, I don't guess it's actually in the floodplain, but there's a lot of drainage concerns over in this area, I know. I've heard from quite a few people about that. I also, you know, several people have mentioned the trees over there. When I was showing the house next door, I would just show Teresa, I took pictures of one of the trees in the yard of this house.
 It was a big catalpa tree and I thought it was just really beautiful and that's going to go. And I kind of, you know, I don't know how I feel about that exactly, to lose large trees when we've got, you know, people wanting to rezone property. I would like to let everybody talk a little bit more about this, but
 Mr. Kenyon and Mr. Smith have both suggested we take a tour of the property. I think it's a really good idea I mean, I've been over there quite a bit, but I think it's a good idea to put it all in perspective and look at What what we're you know get everybody out there and take a look at it in you know I'll talk about it on the ground and see what it what it looks like. Thank you
 okay uh yeah i definitely think we should go look at those um so i mean i don't think anybody wants to vote on this tonight uh are there any protections for that tree now in rsf4 no if if they do choose to go to the cluster housing ordinance that takes them under the small scale development since they're they're under an acre
 which then would bring in storm drainage and tree preservation. Now, there's no guarantee which trees are going to preserve, it's just they would have to meet the minimum percentage. Okay, so there's no tree protection, there's no...
 Drainage protection or anything right now right now. No, okay You know I brought this up and in the budget That that we've we've got to get protections on single-family You've seen this in Wilson Park where somebody tears down a house and then put something that has three times the footprint in zero trees I
 So if the character of a neighborhood is trees, I don't really feel like we're voting on that. Now, if we were going to something like RMF24, then yes, I mean, all the trees would go other than the ones they replant. But I don't think trees are unfortunately part of this conversation, even though I would like them to be in the future for single family detached. OK. Sarah. Yeah, I just wanted to reiterate, because Sloan touched on what I was going to comment on,
 Changing the zoning to the proposed zoning gives us no more or less tree or blood protection. So that is a zero sum game, regardless of how we go. You know, someone could put a very large house on this parcel and all those trees and drainage problems could be exacerbated. Thank you. Okay, so. Okay, so.
 i assume we are either going to hold it here or go to one more reading or whatever you all want to do i do have a history with this area could we hold it on this first reading yep i want to go back and study it because i don't know about anybody else but i know what i promised that neighborhood we may not have it on a piece of paper but i know what i promised that neighborhood the time we're going to do that and that's gonna change
 So just so everybody knows before we get on down the road here. Okay, so we'll leave it right here on the second reading. We're on the first reading, I'm sorry. Do you want to advance to the second reading? You want to hold it right here? Okay. All right, let's move on to the next one.
 Number five, a resolution to approve the pre-captive jail fee agreement with Washington County for jail services in 2020 in the amount of $222,950.07. Chief? Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. So you recall since 2004, we've been contracting our services with Washington County Sheriff's Office for the individuals that we arrest for misdemeanor offenses. The booking fee for the misdemeanor offenses started at $40 in 2004, and it currently sits at $62 a day for the misdemeanor offenses. On August 5th, you might recall that the Washington County Quorum Court passed an ordinance.
 in order to charge all cities a $63.12 daily fee for both felony and misdemeanor arrest. So currently only the city of Fayetteville is paying a booking fee to Washington County Sheriff's Office. So this would be for all municipalities in Washington County to pay $63.12 for all misdemeanors and felonies.
 In comparison to what Judge Wood proposed and what's in front of you today is a 2020 local, interlocal agreement for CAPTA agreement for $2.57 per resident. And they used a census of 86,751 residents, and that's how we got to the figure of $222,950.07.
 So, in comparison with the daily fee that was proposed at $63.12, that would cost our taxpayers approximately $750,000.
 And so how I came to that rate was the Washington County Sheriff's Office chief deputy gave me a figure of 2018. We had 12,000 billable booking days. So we had 12,000 individuals that we arrested for both felony and misdemeanors that spent 12,000 days in the county jail. So that's how that figure would equal $750,000.
 So in 2017, the city spent $215,000 to house misdemeanor arrestees down at the Washington County Jail. In 2018, that figure went down to $200,000 and this year we're on pace to spend $162,000. So we're trying to do the best that we can to reduce the amount of people that were incarcerated down at the Washington County Jail. So the $222,950
 $222,950.07 that's being proposed for this interlocal agreement is in our 2020 proposed budget and I'll be happy to answer any questions that you have. What questions do we have with the Chief on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on it? Alright, I'll bring it back to Council.
 How often is that per capita rate reevaluated? Is that going to be done annually? That's correct. According to that interlocal agreement that's in front of you, it will be done annually. I believe the date's October, if I remember correctly. Okay. Do we have a motion tonight? Sonia? Yes. I move we accept the resolution. Second. Second. We have a motion to second to accept the resolution. Any final comments to the council?
 I'd just like to thank our police department for their hard work the last several years to reduce the number of rest ease We have I know it's continuing operation And I think they've done a very good job And I just hope that you'll continue to do that and set the example for the rest of the county With that please please call the roll
 yes yes yes yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes a resolution to prove professional architectural services agreement with frankly sergeant big wington architects
 pursuant to RFQ 19-01 in the amount of not to exceed $2,948,650 for architectural services for the new federal police department headquarters and support facility and to prove project attention in the amount of $300,000 and to prove a budget adjustment. Thank you mayor. This is our question number nine that was on the voter approved bond initiative.
 which identified $38.8 million for new police headquarters. Approval of this contract will allow the architectural services to begin for the facility to be located on 11.5 acres at Dean and Porter Road. The City Attorney is currently working with the U of A on the particulars and the sale of the closing dates. The proposed schedule will allow 12 months for the architectural services and 18 months for the construction.
 with the project to be completed in june of 2022. take any questions what questions do we have for weight on this okay any public comment on this okay i'll bring it back to the council sarah move we approve the resolution sonya second a motion second to pass resolution once again this is another that you'll be looking at a lot of these because these are rolling out we're moving along with the bond so i wanted to be sure that when we pass through the bond
 Pieces of this that you able to see what we're actually doing the bond so the public will also have a record of How quickly we're moving along with the bond project, so I want to thank all of you for all your hard work With that please which please call the roll Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Yes
 okay number seven a resolution approved professional architectural services agreement with miller buskins buskus black architects pa pursuant to rfq 19.01 and the amount not to exceed six hundred sixty thousand seven hundred thirty five dollars for architectural services for up to three
 new fire stations to approve a project in the amount of $8,000 and approved budget adjustment. Wade. Okay. This action is from question 10 on the bond initiative, which identified $15.29 million for three new fire stations and fire apparatus. Phase one of the bond projects include two new fire stations and apparatus in the amount of $10.52 million. Is that correct?
 so approval of the contract will allow the architectural service to begin on the fire station 8 that's on 1.5 acres at dean and porter and fire station 9 that's 1.76 acres located at 2260 south school avenue the proposed schedule allows 10 months design and 12 months construction with the project completion in october 2021 okay any questions wait on this any public comment on this
 Okay, right back to the council sir. I move we approve the resolution Second we have motion second pass resolution any final comments the council all right? Please call row lunch. Yes, yes, yeah, yes Yes, Marsh. Yes, Kenyon. Yes, Eddie. Yes, yes, all right. Thank you all very much We just closed on the
 land for the fire station on South End. Was it yesterday, Paul? Yesterday. Down on South End. All right.
 number eight an order is pursuant to 168.10 provision for flood hazard reduction of the unified development code to approve flood insurance rate map revisions and for property located near west martin luther king boulevard and south salem drive college branch kit thank you mayor members of the council uh we have before you tonight kids got to read the orders
 Whereas chapter 168 flood damage prevention of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code contains several limitations on development within the special flood hazard area Location of which is approximated on a flood insurance rate map using several different techniques by the federal emergency management agency and whereas section 168 point 1 0 provides
 provision for flood hazard reduction allows an applicant to perform a detailed flood study to determine the exact location of the 100-year floodplain and request revisions to the flood insurance rate map that might allow development in accordance with the more detailed analysis. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves and adopts the flood insurance rate map revisions for property located near West Martin Luther King Boulevard and South Stadium Drive as shown on the proposed flood maps attached to the staff memo. Thank you. Sorry for jumping the gun there, but I have before you tonight a request from an applicant
 taken into consideration a more detailed study than the zone A area currently takes into account. Chapter 168 does allow for this as Kit alluded to. Specifically, it says provided that the applicant may choose, if not required by other provisions of this chapter, to provide a detailed hydrologic and hydraulic study that delineates the floodway, 100-year floodplain boundary, and base flood elevations. And at such time the study is required
 Provided is adopted by ordinance the applicant shall meet all the requirements of said floodway and 100-year floodplain That's what the applicant has requested Staff has reviewed that particular study and is in agreement with it Certainly happy to answer any questions that you may have. Okay, what questions do we have?
 Thank you, Mayor. So, Alan, how long would it take for FEMA to review this? I noticed in the packet that FEMA has not actually gone through and reviewed this. You know, we seem to be having a lot more flooding. We're 13 inches above normal this year, and that seems to be the long-term trend.
 So I'm anticipating that FEMA is really going to adjust many of their maps, and I don't know how backlogged they are or if they're on a schedule to actually review our area anytime soon. We're currently in the midst of a Washington County-wide update. Okay.
 I've heard promises on when we may have preliminary maps to be able to review. Initially FEMA had indicated that that probably be by the end of the year. The full adoption process even after we have the preliminary maps is probably another six to eight months out. So that's a general time frame. Now if you go in with an individual request to FEMA, it's probably very similar in that I've seen those be anywhere from nine months to about a year to be able to revise certain portions of mapping.
 Our ordinance in this particular case does not require an applicant to do that, but we have found That the proposal is in keeping with what we've seen from preliminary draft maps from FEMA for this area in Is it the usual case that FEMA will line up with an applicant's independent study is or have you? experienced wide discrepancies in in that I
 In this particular instance, the applicant hired the same contractor that was FEMA's contractor to perform their analysis. So the two match up very closely. I have seen it go either way. I've seen FEMA yield to letters of MAP revision provided by individual applicants. I've seen them override those. So it's a little bit hard to say because it is kind of on a case-by-case basis. Again, in this particular instance, the MAP,
 what we've been able to view from the preliminary mapping that FEMA has disclosed to us initially and what the applicant has proposed line up pretty closely. So we feel confident although we can't tell you for certain that FEMA would agree with this particular revision, but that's kind of the background of it. One last question. Did this area flood or during the April, was it April or May 2017 flood? Do you have any information on that?
 I believe we did see some flooding of Martin Luther King Drive there. I don't recall any structures in that immediate vicinity that flooded, certainly not the Arena Village that's been proposed here. We did see some minor flooding downstream potentially along South Ellis and 15th Street. There was some flooding down there. But really
 the driver and what we've seen from the floodplain mapping in this area is the railroad crossing it is kind of the choke point just downstream of this i don't anticipate that the changes that you see before you do not would modify any of that flooding downstream because of that choke point especially in our large events those 100 year and above just based on the studies that we've looked at okay thank you okay you have the questions okay any public comment on this
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sonia? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. I'm sorry. Out of order. It's a test. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? March? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scruggs? Yes.
 An ordinance pursuant to Section 168.10, provision for flood hazard reduction of the Unified Development Code to approve flood insurance rate map revisions for property located near West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and South Stadium Drive. Second. I'm going to go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Batch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? Yes. An ordinance pursuant to section 168.1.0 provision for flood hazard reduction of the Unified Development Code to approve flood insurance rate map revisions for property located near West Martin Luther King Boulevard and South Stadium Drive, which is College Branch.
 okay any thought oh staring at oh okay any final comments from the council all right lisa would you please call the rope punch yes turk yes smith yes yes marsh yes kenyan yes scroggins yes okay thank you all number nine an ordinance ordinance pursuant to 168.1l provision for flood hazard reduction of the unified development code to approve flood
 insurance rate map revisions for property located near West 15th Street and South Ridgeback Road West Branch.
 Whereas chapter 168 168 flood damage prevention of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code contains several limitations on development within the special flood hazard area the location of which is approximated on flood insurance rate map using several different techniques by the federal earth energy emergency management agency and whereas section 16810 provision for flood hazard reduction
 allows an applicant to perform a detailed flood study to determine the exact location of a 100-year flood plain and request revisions to the flood insurance rate map that might allow development in accordance with a more detailed analysis therefore
 be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby approves and adopts the flood insurance rate map revisions were properly located near west 15th street and south razorback road as shown on the proposed flood maps attached to the staff memo
 Okay. Thank you, Mayor, members of the council. Again, a very similar request here in a different part of town over by 15th and Razorback. The applicant has chosen to perform at their cost a detailed analysis, and that detailed analysis is before you today. Staff has reviewed it. We are in agreement with it and be happy to answer any questions that you have. All right. Do we have any questions on this one?
 I would add, Mayor, that we did hear back from one adjacent property owner that was notified via certified mail. After explaining the proposed revisions, they had no further comment. Oh, okay. All right. Do we have any questions? All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sonia. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Please call the roll.
 yes yes yes yes yes marsh yes Kenyon yes Eddie yes yes and ordinance pursuant to section 168.10 provision for flood hazard reduction of the Unified Development Code to approve flood insurance rate map revisions for property located near West 15th Street and South Razorback Road which is West Branch so move we go to the third final reading
 Swan. Second. We have a motion to second, go to third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? I need a motion to second. I think we did. Sonja did the motion. You made the second, right? Third, go to third and final reading. Is that correct? Okay. All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. An ordinance pursuant to section 168.1.0, provision for flood hazard reduction of the Unified Development Code to approve flood insurance rate map revisions for property located near West 15th Street and South Razorback Road, which is West Branch. Any final comments from the council? We're good. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 bunch yes turk yes smith yes tieris yes marsh yes kenyon yes eddie yes scott yes okay number 10 in order to acknowledge the implementation of a bond holder directed bond tender program authorized the execution and delivery of supplemental trust indenture and a tender agent agreement pursuant to which the bond tender program will be implemented appoint a tender agent
 prescribe other matters relating there to and declare an emergency kit before i Read this ordinance. I have handed out Copies of an ordinance that is almost identical with three minor changes. Let me call them to your attention in the third whereas clause I thought that we should probably change the very end of it
 where it had said to modify the trust indenture to waive the trustee fee restrictions so market conditions may be determinative of the fees charged by and expenses incurred by the trustee.
 I wanted to change the wave to modify and end it with modify the trustee restrictions because we still will have restrictions on the trustee and so I felt like that was a good change. We have done that with every one of our bond ordinances since we ran into problems in the late 80s, early 90s when we didn't have restrictions.
 then on section 2 and section 3 it talks about persons advising the mayor about whether or not to sign or amend the particular documents that are needed for this and I wanted to add the city staff to both of those to make sure the mayor had advice from Paul Becker and myself and
 uh because we're there some of these um documents we're still looking at a little bit and trying to make sure they're exactly the way we want them the mayor can change them even after you approve them in substantially the form that's presented so i would seek that you all would amend to the ordinance that i handed out for those changes okay so we got two amendments on this right kent
 Well, there's three. There's an amendment to the third whereas clause and then also to section two and section three. Okay, so we're going to amend the third whereas clause in section two and section three. And basically, on the one, the one I'm interested in, is that I don't sign anything until I check with you all and get your... Yes. Yes.
 Does anybody have any questions about what I'm the amendments I have proposed? Well instead of Waving the trustee fee restrictions to modify their instead. That's right. Okay, so we need To men based on the handout
 Son second all right where we changed the third whereas in section two and three right? Okay? All right Okay Okay I'm right back to the council
 We had a discussion about this at the agenda session in 2005. Well, let's do the amendment if we can, then I can read the ordinance. Sure. Oh, I thought you were going to address the amendments. Well, I can address the amendment. These are just minor changes that Kit and I saw when we were making a final review of the ordinance. So they're minor changes.
 They indicate that we will advise the mayor before he signs anything which would implement the program. And there are going to be several restrictions on the trustee. All right. Do we have any public comment on the amendments? All right. I'll bring it back to the council. Any other discussion on the amendments? Okay. Please call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes
 Whereas on March 15 2005 the City Council of the City of Fayetteville the City Council authorized the issuance of three million 725 thousand dollars of tax increment interest accretion bonds the highway 71 East Square development district number one project series 2005 the bonds pursuant to ordinance number 46 84 which is the bond ordinance and
 under the authority of Amendment number 78 to the Arkansas Constitution and Arkansas Code annotated sections 14-168-301 and SEC as from time to time amended. And whereas in connection with the issuance of the bonds,
 The City of Fayetteville, Arkansas entered into a certain trust indenture dated April 15, 2005 with the Bank of Fayetteville, N.A., predecessor to the current trustee, Bank O.Z.K. of Little Rock, Arkansas, the trustee.
 And whereas the trustee has received directions from the owners of two-thirds of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding bonds to hire counsel to create a recurring voluntary tender offer to offer owners of the bonds, the bondholders, the option to tender their bonds on an annual basis in an amount that is less than the accreted value, which is the bond tender program,
 and so and to modify the trust indenture to modify the trustee fee restrictions and whereas pursuant to section 102 no whereas The trustee has hired Mitchell Williams Sally Gates and Woodward Woodyer excuse me PLLC the council and the bond tender program has created has been created which requires a supplemental and
 supplement an amendment to the trust indenture which is the first supplemental trust indenture the appointment of a tender agent the tender agent and execution of a tender agent agreement Which is a tender agent agreement and whereas pursuant to section 102 of the trust indenture at the direction of two-thirds in the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding bonds the trust indenture may be modified altered or amended and whereas the city now desires
 to 1. Acknowledge the creation and implementation of the bond tender program to begin within the next payment date of February 1, 2020. 2. Supplement and amend the trust indenture to allow for the implementation of the bond tender program and modify the trustee fee restrictions. 3. Authorize the appointment of Bank OZK as tender agent. 4. Authorize the execution and delivery of the tender agent agreement.
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, there is hereby acknowledged and agreed to the creation and implementation of the bond tender program as directed by the bondholders, and the bank, OZK, is hereby appointed as tender agent to work cooperatively with the trustee to maintain the bond tender program.
 On an annual basis section 2 there is hereby authorized the first supplemental trust indenture which incorporates provisions for the implementation of the bond tender program and Modifies the trustee fee restrictions the mayor is authorized to execute and acknowledge the first supplemental trust indenture And the city clerk is hereby authorized to execute and acknowledge the first supplemental trust indenture and to fix the seals of the city there too
 The first supplemental trust indenture is hereby approved in substantially the form submitted to this meeting. The mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the trustee, city staff, and council in order to complete the first supplemental trust indenture in substantially the form submitted to this meeting with such changes as shall be approved by such persons executing the first supplemental trust indenture, their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval.
 Section 3 there is hereby authorized a tender agreement agreement the tender agent agreement Excuse me, which prescribes the terms and conditions of the bond tender program The mayor is authorized to execute and acknowledge the tender agent agreement and the city clerk is hereby authorized Execute and acknowledge the tender agent agreement and to affix the city the seal of the cities there to the tender agent agreement is hereby approved in substantially the form submitted to this meeting and
 The Mayor is hereby authorized to confer with the Trustee, Tender Agent and City Staff and Council in order to complete the Tender Agent Agreement and substantially the forms submitted to this meeting, with such changes that shall be approved by such persons executing the Tender Agent Agreement, their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval.
 The Mayor and the City Clerk, for and on behalf of the City, are hereby authorized to do any and all things necessary to effect the implementation of the bond tender program, and to effect the execution of the first Supplemental Trust Indenture and the Tender Agent Agreement, and to perform all of the obligations of the City under and pursuant thereto.
 The mayor and city clerk are further authorized for and on behalf of the city to execute all documents, agreements, certificates, and other instruments that may be necessary or required for the carrying out of such authority or the intent of this ordinance. Section 5. The provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to be severable.
 In the event that any section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, phrase, or other provision or portion of this ordinance shall be adjudged illegal, invalid, unenforceable, or unconstitutional, the same shall not affect the validity of this ordinance as a whole or any part or provision thereof,
 other than the part so decided to be illegal, invalid, unenforceable, or unconstitutional, and the remaining provisions of this ordinance shall be construed as if such illegal, invalid, unenforceable, and unconstitutional provision or provisions had never been contained herein. Section 6, that all ordinances and resolutions or parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict. Section 7, following the adoption.
 This ordinance shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least one time pursuant to Title 14, Chapter 55, Subchapter 2 of the Arkansas Code of 1987 annotated. And then in an emergency clause, this ordinance shall take effect and be enforced from and after its adoption. It is hereby found and determined by the Fayetteville City Council that the implementation of the bond tender program beginning with the payment date of February 1, 2020.
 the authorization and execution of the first supplemental trust indenture and tender agent program is immediately necessary in order to preserve the public health safe and safety and welfare therefore an emergency is hereby declared to exist and this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval okay what this ordinance would do would be to allow the implementation of the bond tender program
 Bond tender program is being requested by the bondholders two-thirds of the outstanding bond holders requested this program Essentially what the program would allow are those bond holders to bring forward or tender their bonds for a lesser amount than their current current accreted value
 This bond issue was to address a TIF district, a TIF district that was formed in the downtown area. The TIF district is formed to normally renovate or knock down public nuisance or dilapidated area. In this particular case, it was the mountain and a restaurant and a law office. That was done in 2005. It was voted.
 The TIF bonds essentially pay off by, they're called tax incremental bonds. So they're paid off by the incremental increase of the district caused by assessed value of the district. So the thought process is
 Once you knock this down, you have renovation and development of the district. The assessed value goes up. That assessed value increase is used to pay off the bonds. I want to make it perfectly clear that the taxpayer doesn't pay any more taxes for this. That's just the increment that would have gone to the municipality or in this case the county as increased taxes.
 Instead it's diverted, put into a trust, and that's how the bonds are paid off. Unfortunately, we have not had the development that was projected at that point in time. The bonds are not paying off anywhere near as rapidly as had been projected at that point in time.
 Bondholders were contacted, asked if they were interested in this program. Again, two-thirds of them were interested in this program. This would allow the mayor to implement the program by approving the first supplemental trust indenture, which is the trustee, the change in the trustee.
 The tender agent agreement, which would again, you would name a tender agent who would collect these tender offers, look at the percentage on the lowest ones would in fact be redeemed and would appoint Bank OZK as the tender agent.
 They will be the tender agent and they will also be the trustee there, the current trustee for these bonds. It was originally Fayetteville but that was transferred. So that's what these documents would do. As Kit has said and as the Mayor has said, the Mayor will sign them based on the advice of staff and our legal counsel.
 So that's what we are looking for at this point in time in the audience. We do have Gordon Wilburn, Kutak Rock, who is our current bond counsel. We have representatives from Crews & Associates who were the underwriters on these bonds.
 And we do have a representative from Mitchell Williams, who is the legal counsel on behalf of the bondholders to establish through their vote in case you have any very specifics. It's a very technical issue. If you have any specific questions, they're here to bail me out if I can't handle them. But I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have in the council? Kyle.
 All right, I do have a question but first one I did this at agenda session just make sure I'm interpreting this right This is people who have lent the city money at their request Asking to let us let taxpayers off the hook for less than we owe them. Essentially. That's correct. Sounds like a pretty good deal What's the emergency clause for?
 The emergency is caused so we can, as soon as they're approved, get started on the paperwork. There's a substantial amount of paperwork. This is a new process. It doesn't exist. So our tender agent has to get all that together, get the documents together to send out to the bondholders. And if we go through several readings, that's going to delay that process. So that's what the emergency is for. Is there a particular deadline we're up against? No.
 I don't know what that deadline is. Yes, there is a deadline. We're up against, again, this offer would be February 1. So that doesn't give us a lot of time right now. We're talking 90 days as it is. Thanks. Like I say, we do have some details in these documents to work out. And they won't be approved by the mayor until he's satisfied on those. OK. Any other questions?
 I do have a public comment on this. Okay. I'll bring it back to you all. Tonya. I vote we go to the second reading. Okay. Sloan. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Yes.
 In order to acknowledge the implementation of a bondholder-directed bond tender program, authorize the execution and delivery of a supplemental trust indenture and a tender agent agreement, pursuant to which the bond tender program will be implemented, appoint a tender agent, prescribe other matters relating thereto, and declare an emergency. Move, please. Let's spin the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 second yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Ordinance to acknowledge the implementation of a bond holder directed bond tender program Authorize the execution and delivery of a supplemental trust indenture and a tender agent agreement Pursuant to which the bond tender program will be implemented Appoint a tender agent prescribed other matters relating thereto and to declare an emergency Okay, final comments council. I don't think everybody's okay
 I want to thank everybody for all your work on this. I know it's finances and bond stuff can be a little tricky, but I want to thank all the bond folks and Paul and everybody that's worked on the score, and thank you all. All right. Would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Tiras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scrock? Yes. Okay.
 And mayor we need a separate vote on the emergency clause. That's right a motion and a second and then a vote on it Okay, I need a motion to second to do the emergency clause Since everything settles down. Sloan? So moved Second. Motion second to pass the emergency clause. Any comments, questions, any comments from the public? Bring back to the council. Police, would you please call the roll?
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number 11, a resolution to adopt the 2020 Annual Budget and Work Program. Paul, thank you all. Well, as you all are aware, Saturday we had an expanded discussion on the budget. So this is the operating budget.
 for 2020. Remember we will have an amendment to this budget which will carry all the CIP projects over in the 1st of January. Total budgets 100 and
 $187.5 million, that's up $19 million compared to prior year. The reasons for that increase are basically twofold. One is the salary increases we granted in the spring. That's up about 3.2 percent or a little over $2 million.
 The largest increase is in the capital improvement project section, over $16 million in capital improvements added to this year's budget. Again, that was driven by the expansion of the capital program in the water and sewer fund.
 As we discussed Saturday, the water and sewer fund, we had been holding projects, only doing what's necessary, as we were waiting on some permitting issues that would have been extremely expensive to the plants and plant renovation. So at that point in time, we were holding back and we're looking forward to moving on with those projects at this point in time.
 As far as the highlights, the general fund is almost $50 million. It's an increase of $1.7 million. Again, that's driven by the personnel increases that we gave this spring. That accounts for about $1.5 million of the increase, and we have about $200,000 in other issues, election costs, census costs, things of that nature.
 Again, our revenue will not keep up with the expenses at this point in time. We talked about that when we presented and you granted increases in the spring. The plan was to supplement revenue with reserves until those revenues could catch up with expenditures in probably a two- to three-year period.
 At that point in time, we would have liked to seen sales tax increases of 4.5% to 5%. However, we have not been experiencing those at this point in time. I'm hoping we're going to end the year at about 1.5% increase over last year. We're seeing a little bit of increase in internet sales, but it's too early to tell what that will really
 will really be, and they're not factored in this particular budget at this point in time. So right now we're looking at a $1.2 million deficit. That's before any discussion of potential salary increases next year.
 If we discuss salary increases next year and if a recommendation is made, that's another $800,000 to $1 million on top of that. We don't know if we're going to be able to do that. We've been outspoken, said if the revenues don't appear to support that, we're prepared to not recommend increases at that time or have another plan other than what we have at this point in time.
 So we're going to have to monitor that, monitor that very closely. Again, internet sales is not factored in. We don't know what the impact is going to be. We've seen some signs that sales tax is increasing a bit at this point in time, but we're not quite sure what that's going to be due to. Between now and then, we're going to be looking very, very careful at our revenue streams.
 We're going to monitor that. I indicate to you periodically, or monthly I should say, what sales tax results are, report to you monthly of what the total revenue looks like going forward. Again, we're going to monitor that very closely. But we do have to keep in mind that right now we're at $1.2 million deficit in the general fund without considering salary increases.
 Those are the general high points of the budget. We had an expanded discussion. I thought we had a very, very good in-depth discussion Saturday. I would encourage any of the citizens who wish to view that, it is out there on our website for your viewing to see that discussion and see the issues we discussed at that point in time. At that point, I'll take any questions.
 that you may have. OK, sir.
 Thank you. Paul, I was looking at the new personnel additions page in our budget summary, and it reminded me that last year we approved the hiring of a recruiter position for HR. Did we hire that person? Last year we did not hire that person. Okay. So that salary allotment will be reallocated in our budget for this next year, what we originally? Yes, it's going to be reallocated to the position that we discussed in planning. Okay.
 Right, so that would be the development review manager. But that annual salary that was budgeted for this past year was not spent because we did not hire that position. It was not. Thank you. Any other questions? Scott? The development review manager, we discussed that that will be paid out of bond funds, or is that general fund? No, that's the switch. The HR person is going to be switched to that person in development.
 What we did discuss is a bond project and construction manager. Separate position. That one will be paid out of the bond fund, and it can be paid out of the bond fund because that's directly related to the creation of that capital asset. And that's a restriction you have to be very, very careful with with this bond issue. Okay, thank you. That came up, and I didn't realize we were talking about two separate ones. We had a couple of switches to discuss, and I know it was a little confusing.
 So that's two new positions in in facilities or just one one new We're creating one of the facilities. That's the bond project and construction manager Not not the individual we have that we're looking at who can Who is skilled to do that and has been doing it on a partial basis and we want to have it do full-time that's going to leave that position open the manager and
 And that will be a backfill position. So that will be the actual new one. So it's one new FTE. One moves up, one's graded as a backfill position. But the one new one would be? Funded by the bond fund. Okay, thank you. And the other one is a current position, which will open. Other questions we have?
 I would just like us to leave this on the first reading tonight after taking public comment. I'd like to have an opportunity to talk more with the Arts Council at our regularly scheduled meeting tomorrow night about the potential new position of an arts and culture coordinator, which I advocated for at the agenda session, and I do still agree that we need. What public comment do we have?
 Any other questions from the council? Yes, what public comment do we have? Theresa, I'm sorry. OK, I'll come back. I'll come back. Yes. Yeah, Bob, come on. Bob Stafford, War Plane. I appreciate all the work you guys do here, from city staff to the elected members and everybody. I'm the chair of the Arts Council. I appreciate Sarah's motion to let us have time to discuss this.
 We're growing. We got this arts corridor in line. Mayor, you yourself have mentioned to me that when you meet with other mayors at conferences and stuff, that arts and culture, arts and entertainment is among the top four economic drivers. Number three, I believe. This position will pay for itself. We're already behind. If we want to get further behind Springdale and Rogers, we can do that. And I understand that at first this is an upfront cost, but this job will pay for itself.
 You know, right now at the Arts Council, we're working on the economic development of the creative economy and how to support that. But I will tell you, we're going to need someone at the city, a dedicated staff member at the city as an arts and culture director. I forgot what you call this. Coordinator. Coordinator, whatever you want to call it.
 So that when Molly Rong figures out the puzzle of how the governance committee for the arts district is going to work, for the cultural arts quarter district is going to work, we're in the arts council is trying to work on that. There's one person that can coordinate with all the different city departments and the different organizations. Peter Lance here tonight from the WAC. We did Theater Squared. Everybody. You can't just have a headless horse. You know, we...
 And if we want to watch this city grow and you want to see your sales tax revenue grow, invest in the creative economy. And we hope to give you guidance on how to do that. And I know that this budget needs to go through now, so it's going to take us some time. But I really want you to consider that this position is essential. When we look at other cities and see how they do things, 100% have this position in place, 100%.
 And if we think we could do it differently, I think that's crazy. The same with the percent for the arts program, but that's another conversation. 100%. If we think we could somehow do it differently, or if we could just survive off this parking revenue that all the arts organizations are going to squabble over, that's just ridiculous. So I really think that people need to take this seriously. This could be a huge economic driver to create jobs.
 Which I mean that's what we're here for right to have a successful city And I know the Springdale Rogers are putting these positions online if we want all our artists to move to Springdale and Rogers Well that may happen if we don't get on the ball and start taking this seriously That's my comment about that. I have another comment about knows that the steering committee
 for the Fay Jones Woods, listening to the landscape architects. And I don't know, it's a budgetary question, but I don't know if this is the proper place for it. You can tell me no and go sit down. But there was a discussion how the architects are having to move some money into improving the sidewalk and streets on West Street. And they were bemoaning they couldn't do the sidewalk improvements on the cross streets. And my only thought was, why is this coming out of...
 That budget. When the people voted on that bomb measure, and when you're talking about the arts corridor, people thought they were built, you know, working on the arts corridor, and you have these streets and sidewalks that have been derelict for 20 years, 30 years, that haven't been improved.
 and all that money is going to come from the arts quarter and streets and sidewalks isn't going to pay for any of that or am i am i mistaken i have no idea paul that might be a question for you i mean it seems like at least some of that i know we're going to do fancier streets and sidewalks but some of that should be offset from where the regular sidewalk and street money comes from okay and thank you that's a question
 Michael, that's a question about the bond issue and what's in the bond issue. So Chris would be the best person to discuss that. I can't hear you, Paul. That's a question about what was in the bond issue. So Chris would speak with that, will speak with that. The question on the bond issue for the street center.
 The cultural arts corridor project always included the park area, the Fay Jones Woods, the civic space and the connector corridor of West Avenue. We had other streets in there included as well and did the preliminary design on those and as we've
 built the budget. We are reducing the scope of some of the street work, but the cultural arts corridor has always included the West Avenue corridor along with the Razorback Greenway. So it's always been part of the project.
 There are also transportation bond funds. They're part of the Cultural Arts Corps. They're supplementing the project along with trails funds to supplement some of the trail work. So there are some other buckets of money that are included in the project. Okay. Does that answer your question, Bob? Yes, it does. Okay. What other public comment do we have? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. So, Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. This is a question for Paul. As the budget is right now, we're going to have a $1.2 million deficit, correct? That's correct. So how much sales tax, what increase in sales tax will we need by the end of the year to balance the budget? To balance the budget?
 We're looking at roughly 5% over what's currently budgeted, so that would be about 6.5% to make up that 1.2%. So that's quite a bit. Yes, it is. You'd think we're not going to make it. We're going to be...
 Even with internet sales tax, your projection is we'll still be a little bit in the deficit. I would project we'll be in the deficit. Now, again, the one wild card that we don't know is internet sales. However, that's quite a bit to make up. If we make that in one year, right now I would say that's doubtful.
 Yes, it's possible, but we will probably still be running into a deficit at the end of this year going into next year. Hopefully by next year, if things pick up, hopefully the year after that we might be looking at having revenue the same as expenditures.
 Thank you. I was just kind of thinking out loud. This is my first budget process that I've been through and I thought if somehow Miraculously we had a very good Fall and winter and we were able to balance the budget that any excess that was over that Could go to something like the coordinator that we're just talking about the arts coordinator or at least be put into that fund and
 Or create a new fund I guess from the general fund To be able to allow money to be deposited in there But I would only really support something like that if we were if we were at neutral if we had made our budget so I'm just throwing that idea out there and I Realized we have quite a quite a big deficit to make We haven't included salaries in it either
 That's that before we've had any salary discussion is that before salaries that's before salary discussion All right. Thank you for clarifying that again. It's not the only source of revenue to the general fund However, we've got other needs
 The one thing I will say as far as the plan that you've talked about, if we are increasing reserves certainly we can look at other programs, no doubt about that. To go ahead and segregate it in another fund or something like that, that's just going to restrict you. I mean you don't really want to go there. The general fund can fund what it wants to be. There's no use in restricting yourself more than you have to.
 But that would be another 5%. So we'd roughly be looking at 6.5% to 7% to get to the point in time right now of those. I'd have to look at all those numbers as we go along, because they do change. But that would be my projection at this point in time. If, in fact, we are to the point that we do have surpluses, absolutely we can look at new programs. Thank you.
 I mean, I'm sorry. Okay. Sarah. Thank you. I would like to point out that we did recognize that we were going to be in a deficit when we approved the salary raises a few years ago and that that was going to continue for a few years until we balance. But we made that decision to invest in our staff because that was our most important
 important resource So you know we did plan for this and we did plan to go into reserve somewhat in order to make that investment to To raise our staff to a better wage So with that in mind though on the recruiter position that we approved last year What was the budget line item that we had allocated for that position that we did not pay out because we didn't hire it Yes
 I think it was in the about 56,000, somewhere in that range.
 Okay. Is that the salary range, or I guess was that the budget line item in terms of employment costs? That's the budget line, I believe. I'd have to double-check that, Sarah. I think that's total cost. If you would please double-check that and get back to me, because if we did not spend that money for a salary last year, and so that unallocated money will roll back into this next year, and that has not been –
 adjusted in the budget. Have we adjusted for our reallocations that are going to roll over? Well, no, we'll see that, how that will work, Sarah, at the end of the year, we'll see whether or not we have a surplus or a deficit. It would lower the deficit
 we won't have a surplus. It will lower the deficit. Right. So that's how it rolls. Okay. But that money was not spent. It was allocated for that position. It was not spent. It was allocated. The position was not spent. However, that hopefully would reduce whatever the deficit is for this year. Okay. Thank you.
 But I would say that in looking at this deficit and being sensitive to the fact that we are so dependent on sales tax revenue, I think that that speaks to the importance of going above and beyond building a pretty arts plaza and actually developing an arts and culture ecosystem that supports and grows our creative economy. Because right now, I think one of the things that is really missing in our plan is opportunities to buy and sell art, right?
 and engage in the economic ecosystem of our cultural economy. And I hope that that's something that this position could bring to the table. Okay. What other comments do we have from the council? Okay. If there, this is a resolution, so if there's, if you wish to postpone your decision, then you'll need to have a motion to table. Okay. Sarah. I move that we table the resolution for two weeks. All right.
 top um i'll second that because i think we also had some questions at our session about the porter produce uh lease and some of those expenses so i would i second the tabling okay very good then any comments on the table
 Mayor, I misspoke in the budget meeting on Saturday. I had thought that that Porter Produce building was on the National Register or the Arkansas Register, and it is not, unfortunately. But we are going to work to see if we can find somebody that will work on that to see if we can get it on the register. You know, several historians around town were as surprised as I was. They thought it was on there. It was an oversight. And...
 We think it should be listed. It has great potential for that. So I just wanted to update you all on that on that topic Any other comments? So we have motion second table for two weeks Lisa would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Hurt? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scrum? Yes Okay
 Well, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? We have several announcements tonight. Happy Thanksgiving to everybody, and city offices will be closed next Thursday and Friday. Trash pickup will be... Sorry, I've got to pull it all up. Wow.
 Both Thursday and Friday's residential and commercial routes will be picked up on Friday. So we'll be closed Thursday and Friday, but both Thursday and Friday routes will be picked up on Friday. We have the amazing tree event that is this coming Friday, celebration of the Elm and Washington Regional Medical Center locally designated super tree. Absolutely. The announcement's on the website.
 As the Mayor mentioned, we had another public input session last night on the Rolling Hills project for street improvements, drainage improvements, and those kinds of things. And we built a website that describes all the different projects that are being discussed, including 71B and just lots of different things that are happening in that area. So for residents who didn't get a chance to go last night, please visit the website slash Rolling Hills, and there is a survey where you can provide feedback.
 Home for the holidays. This is a good one for at animal services from November 22nd to December 7th When adopters bring in a new unwrapped toy for a child They will have the adoption fee waived for any available dog or cat To encourage people to embrace the holiday spirit and help people be engaged in adopting the homeless pets and then finally a
 We have put up on the main website page, there's a red button that says please help us evaluate our website. That'll be online for quite some time, but it takes you to a very small survey that allows you to provide input to us as we look at a redesign of that website. We do a redesign every couple, three years, so this will help us with the redesign coming up. I appreciate everybody's input on the web redesign. That's all I have, Mary. Thanks. Okay. Any other announcements? Yes.
 Okay. Thank you all. We're adjourned.