I WOULD LIKE TO CALL TO ORDER THE NOVEMBER 12, 2024 CITY COUNCIL MEETING, WHICH IS A CONTINUATION OF THE NOVEMBER 7 CITY COUNCIL MEETING. SO, JACKSON, WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROW? HERTSBERG? HERE. STAFFORD? HERE. JONES? HERE. MOORE? HERE. WEDECKER? HERE. BURNA? HERE. BUNCH? HERE.
 Kirk? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. All right.
 Now, on my handy-dandy notes here, it says we have addressed consent, old business, and new business items C1 through C3. Now, we're going to be picking up this agenda at C4. Everybody with me on that? All right, here we go.
 All right. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-49 for approximately 1.04 acres located at 1893 North Rupert Road in Ward 4 from RSF 1 residential single family one unit per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Yes.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 1, Residential Single Family 1 Unit per Acre, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, and our charter hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, John.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth, Development Services Director. This particular request is taking us to Northwest Fayetteville and Ward 4. That includes just over one acre of land at the southwest corner of Starry Night View and Ruppel Road. To put in a little bit more context for you, it's about two-thirds to three-quarters of the way north of Weddington Drive on Ruppel Road, putting it about a little way short of Mount Comfort Road to the north.
 The property is currently zoned or developed with a single-family home that accesses directly on the Ripple Road. Otherwise, the site is largely undeveloped. The request is to rezone the property from its existing RSF1 residential single-family one-unit-per-acre zoning designation to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Staff finds the request to be compatible from a land use standpoint. This area includes a variety of different residential development patterns on the different lot sizes. There are large lot agricultural properties to the north and south, some denser single-family developments immediately to the west. There's multifamily across Ripple Road to the east.
 Looking at it even more particularly and more finer grain to the PZD immediately to the west of it, this property abuts two different planning areas of the Oak Brook planned zoning district approved by council in the mid-2000s. That includes planning area 3 and planning area 5.
 The portion of the property or the portion of the PZU that's immediately across the street from the property that the council's considering with this item is perhaps more akin to one of our neighborhood services zoning district allowing single to three family dwellings as well as multifamily and commercial uses. Staff finds the RIU residential and immediate urban zoning district to be very compatible with this area in particular.
 That is the PCD then segues as it goes westward along Starview into the allowance for single, two and three family dwellings similar to what's allowed in the RAU zoning district that's proposed for the council tonight.
 With that in mind and considering long-range planning consistency and whether this request is compatible or complementary of our long-range plans, staff does find it to be so. Our future land use map designation of residential neighborhood areas intended to support a variety of residential uses depending on context. Okay.
 At the corner of a major intersection on a major transportation corridor in Fayetteville, staff finds that a more varied allowance of residential uses is appropriate, particularly given several of the infill factories that complement the property. That said, there are a number of items I wanted to touch on before moving on. Some of these came up at agenda session. Some of those are in the staff report. Some of those are in both places. The first was a question of topography on the site.
 This property is kind of a story of two different topographies. If you have opportunity to visit, you did see that if you look at the grade across the entirety of the property, it's about 7.5%. That said, the top of the site as you further west along Starry Night View, it tends to be the flatter portion before it gets a little bit steeper approaching 10% slopes towards Ruble Road.
 Moving on to accident data and consideration for traffic. The police department was supportive enough to provide some numbers to you all in your consideration tonight, specific to not just Rupel, but also to Rupel and Best Friend Lane. While there has been 67 accidents recorded in the last five years along Rupel between Golf Club to the south and Mount Comfort to the road,
 Only five of those are associated with this specific intersection. The vast majority of those accidents, which you can see in yellow here on the table, are those associated or attributed to the intersection north at Mount Comfort.
 Additionally, I did get an opportunity to confer with our engineering staff regarding visibility at this intersection. There was a question at agenda session of site triangles. If you're not familiar with that terminology, it's the visibility that a driver has as they approach an intersection of oncoming traffic, either to the left or right or otherwise. Engineering staff did share that this was considered when the subdivision was originally built in 2006.
 It was also considered again more recently, perhaps more importantly, when the street modifications were made to RuPaul that increased the width and volume of traffic in that area. There was some recognition that it might be
 It might be important to evaluate the signage that's installed along RuPaul in that area. There was some comment that that might have the potential to interfere with visibility, but that shouldn't necessarily impinge upon the development rights of this property. So that is something we're looking at moving forward regardless of this project.
 A third item that was discussed or was expressed in the staff report was a question of sewer capacity. Going into a much higher view, a higher scale, you can see the property in question tonight in the lower right-hand corner or southeast corner of this map. This property appears as though it will drain to the north.
 excuse me, to several of our major sewer lines along Hamestream Creek before proceeding on to the lift station, which you see on the upper left-hand corner. This is the predominant lift station for this part of Fayetteville. And in fact, it supports about half the sanitary sewer that flows from properties in Fayetteville before reaching our treatment plant.
 In discussing potential capacity concerns with our utilities engineer, they expressed that they were not concerned with the development of this property. With it being barely an acre in size, the development potential is such that it will have next to no impact considering the whole of the lift station and what it serves today.
 Finally, on the topic of public comment, there have been some concerns expressed, especially from the neighbors immediately to the west about traffic. I believe there were comments made about the potential for decreased property value as well as a disagreement that this proposal will be compatible with the Oak Brook subdivision
 With all those issues in consideration, staff is recommending approval of the request. Our Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously by a vote of nine to zero, citing primarily land use compatibility as a part of their discussions.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor, I apologize, I've not had an opportunity to evaluate if the applicant is online or here in person tonight. But I believe... The applicant is here. Who is the applicant? I have down that Clint Pinzo, or perhaps their spouse, is the applicant for the item. Yes.
 come on you want to speak fourth council you have 10 minutes i sure won't take 10 minutes of your time um just just ask that would you introduce yourself oh sorry uh clint tenzo and i'm representing the conrads that own the property they are wanting to continue with a to develop the property to look kind of like the oak brook subdivision we're looking at putting in detached
 Um, row homes comparable to what's already in notebook subdivision. I'd like to point out that I mentioned this before to the planning commission that the density is a lot higher density across directly across the street. And I think that zone 5 and.
 So we're not looking to be that dense, which I know planning might want something a little bit more dense in there. But we were just wanting to, like I said, continue with the look and the feel of the Oak Brook subdivision. I know someone had made comments about they thought it might negatively impact their property values. But instead of having a single family old ranch style home on the property, they'll have comparable homes built out to comparable quality as well. So yeah.
 And we'll probably want to put a new facade on the existing structure. As far as traffic, this is something we can get into when we get to the next phase. But I'm hoping that the city will allow us to do a rear alley access so we don't have to enter onto the street if the city wants it to be a ride in, ride out.
 to the alley or we can tie it into the existing street there if we need to put an alley extension up to the street but I'd like to keep the the facade of the street looking just like it does with minimal street access so we would actually be ingress egress from the the alley if if the city would allow that's what our intentions are like I said I know that's
 not really applicable to the to the rezone but uh just just to let you all know what what our intentions are at this point and i'd be happy to answer any questions that anybody has what questions do we have from the council for the staff or yeah anything okay thank you thank you let's go on take public comment um everybody has one turn to speak
 you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this that's in the chamber on this particular topic who do you have on zoom susan no one on zoom has their hand raised mayor okay i will bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what discussion would the council like to have what action would the council like to take tracy
 Thank you, Mayor. I don't know if the residents close by are confused by us breaking up the agenda and starting at 430, because I got a lot of phone calls and emails about this property, and so I'm kind of surprised that no one's here to discuss it with us. I've been over there. I've driven over there several times. I have a friend that lives close by there, and I personally feel that there are siting issues.
 in that location. Maybe it doesn't meet the parameters of some other study, but that's my personal consideration, especially turning left, the way the topography is around that turn. And so if you all haven't been over there, I think it would behoove you to drive around there and take a look at that, especially when you're turning left onto Ruple. So thank you.
 OK. Anybody else? Thank you, Mayor. And just in follow up to ask staff, there was some talk about in regard to what Councilmember Turk spoke about the
 the access coming out of there. There was speaking to I guess later in the development past the rezone we'll potentially look at those types of things possibly I guess if you can help speak to that because I heard shared by the applicant some additional details about flexibility possibly but I think that might be at a different stage not necessarily at the rezone.
 Thank you for the question. I think it's accurate if I'm understanding correctly that most of these are development level details, but it's certainly within the council's purview to consider dangerous traffic conditions as a part of a rezoning. I believe what the applicant was speaking to is access to the site or how it would be developed in the future and potentially whether they could connect to the alley system that has been installed with Oakbrook subdivision to the west.
 I can speak in broad terms that our access management standards would require access to this property to come off of Starry Night View, not Rupel Road. We do require in our codes to access the lower volume street as a priority. It takes special exception from our planning commission to access the busier street. Does that answer your question? I mean, otherwise, I don't have any additional details about the project as proposed and how it necessarily be accessed.
 right um i have been by the site multiple times uh i don't have the same concerns that uh i feel that councilman turk has um the intersection is already there it's already used uh i don't believe we're going to be adding the volume of traffic that would prohibit me from not voting for this rezone
 Okay Anybody else so you just y'all just want to leave it here or I I wouldn't I'd like to move forward I I think we're I think our city notifications are adequate if People were going to show up I would imagine they would look into that I Otherwise, we'd have to table everything, you know for for everything we addressed before 530 I just wanted to know what you know, I mean, I I guess a I
 If anything I would say we could move it take this and move it to the end of the end of the Agenda to see if people show up comment, but I don't think that's reason to table it Sir, thank you for your comments councilmember Stafford. I'm comfortable. I'd like to move it forward I'd like to suspend the roles and go to the second rating. Okay? Is there a second second? Okay
 tracy you had something to say about um thank you mayor um i'm fine with moving it to the second reading but i would really appreciate if we could hold it uh to allow that the neighbors to be here if because i i am concerned that they are they are confused about what time we started i think it would be different if we started at 5 30 but so i'd like that a little bit of consideration on that because i i got a lot of calls yeah
 Jackson y'all did send out notifications will be at 430, right? Yes We have a motion to say we go to the second reading Bob do you have something else? Oh, I'm sorry Jackson, which police all Hertzberg Yes Stafford yes Jones Yes more. Yes Whitaker yes, Erna. Yes, I
 Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. In order to rezone the property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2024-49 for approximately 1.04 acres located at 1893 North Rupert Road in Ward 4 from RSF 1 residential single family one unit per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Okay, so y'all want to hold it right here?
 I know I like the motion that we move to the third and final reading personally okay second the motion second to go to the third and final reading mr. mayor yes we heard from Teresa turf the council member from Ward 4 but I haven't heard from Holly Hertzberg Holly have you got any more have you I mean I usually try to listen to
 you know, people from that particular ward if we have an issue with tabling or something like that. Not always, though. Holly, have you gotten any calls or anything or have any concerns personally about this? Thank you, Sarah. Yes, I've received multiple complaints, and I hold similar views to Councilmember Turk, and I wish that we would hold this tonight. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, but I do have a motion on the floor. Anything else? Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? No. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Jones. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? No. Perna? No. Bunch? No. Kirk? No. No.
 All right. So it's left on the second reading. Yes, it is. Let's go to number five. So real quick, with it being left on the second reading and the tentative agenda being held after this meeting has adjourned. Yeah, we'll get to that, Jackson. This will be a walk-on. Yes, sir. All right. Let's go to number five. Just keep a note of those. I'm trying to, yes. Thank you.
 Number five an ordinance to approve vacation 24-22 for property located east of 111 123 and 135 South panic blue and Ward 1 vacate point zero to a proportion of general utility he's
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of the General Utility Easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of the General Utility Easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached to the exhibit A to the planning department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any damage to or relocation of any existing facilities will be at the property owner developer's expense. And number two, the existing gas line shall be relocated within the utility easement boundaries at property owner developer's expense.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to Ward 1 on the southeast slope of Mount Sequoia, just west of Happy Hollow Road. Specifically, it includes three lots of a subdivision currently under construction with three houses, single family homes being developed on each house. During construction of those houses, it was identified that they were pushed forward somewhat from the building plans and placed encroaching into a utility easement.
 which you can see here generally. The area in blue is what's intended to remain of the utility easement and the portion at red is what's at issue tonight, which includes about two hundredths of an acre that the applicant is requesting be vacated to accommodate that encroachment and allow those permits to be closed out and the houses to be closed upon.
 Staff has not identified any issues with this. All the franchise utilities have consented to this, with only one offering a specific condition of approval, which you heard Mr. Williams read regarding a relocation of the gas line within the easement. The only other condition staff is recommending is the standard one, the damage and relocation of any existing utilities or otherwise be relocated or replaced at the developer's or applicant's expense.
 Accordingly, staff is recommending approval. I'm happy to take any questions and Mayor Robert Rhodes is here as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council? We have 10 minutes. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Robert Rose of the law firm of Hall-Estill representing Tree Tops, the owners of the property. Really don't have anything to add. The mistake was, we believe, made during the setting of construction pins and then obviously not discovered until it was too late.
 The applicant, the landowners are perfectly willing to accept and follow through on the two conditions and I'd answer any questions. Do we have any questions for the applicant or the staff? Theresa. Hi, thank you for kind of explaining why that mistake happened. Is there already an existing gas line there or has not one been put in yet?
 I think it's there. Okay. I can confirm it is existing. Thank you. Anything else? All right. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one, turn it to Mike. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, and those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating in the Zoom will speak after that.
 Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber? If you guys know when he has her hand raised Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council This is an ordinance what action with the council like to have or what discussion with the council like that I heard make a motion to spin the rules and go to surgery second Okay, we have a motion second go to the second ring Jackson, which please call Hertzberg yes Stafford
 Yes, Jones for yes, Whittaker. Yes, Verna. Yes, lunch. Yes Kirk yes in order to prove the AC 24-22 for property located east of 111 123 and 135 South Panic loop in Ward 1 to vacate a .02 acre portion of a general utility easement a
 or make a motion spin rules go third and final reading second no motion second go to the third and final ring jackson would you please color up herzberg yes stafford yes moore yes wedeker yes verna yes punch yes yes
 In order to prove the AC 24-22 for property located east of 111 123 and 135 South paddock loop in Ward 1 To vacate a point zero two acre portion of a general utility easement any final comments from the council Jackson would you please go over? Hertzberg Yes Stafford yes war Yes, we'd occur. Yes, Verna. Yes Bunch yes
 kirk yes okay thank you all let's go to number six an ordinance to approve vacation 2418 for property located at 314 west lafayette street ward 2 to vacate 0.34 acres of street right away
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following scribe portion of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council and the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby vacates a portion of Street Right-of-Way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, newly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage or location,
 any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner developer's expense and number two an 80 foot by 30 foot utility easement shall be dedicated over the northernmost portion of the right-of-way to to be vacated as shown on exhibit c attached to the planning department's memo jonathan thank you mayor this request takes us back towards central fayetteville uh into i apologize
 I'm gonna err with my screen share there. Allow me one moment. All right, hopefully that's my one for the evening. Takes us back towards Central Fayetteville into Ward 2. This is property most readily recognizable as the location of University Baptist Church. What is specifically at discussion is about a third of an acre of unbuilt right-of-way located between Lafayette Street to the north, or to the south and Maple Street to the north, about four or 500 feet east of West Avenue.
 This is alley right-of-way that was plotted decades and decades ago, but was never improved that any records can indicate. However, in the 1980s and 90s, it appears that several buildings were built over the right-of-way. And accordingly, the applicant is before the council tonight requesting to vacate that right-of-way, which you can see in survey form on the left-hand side and in our city GIS form on the right-hand side.
 And considering requests like this, staff's primary considerations are whether this right-of-way serves or would serve the public purpose. And considering this request and the condition in which it exists today, already encroached upon by buildings, we find that it is no longer able to serve the public's interest.
 Additionally, we received all consents from our franchise utilities, which is typically our second checkpoint for evaluating right-of-way requests. The only exception to that is what was received from our electric provider, as Mr. Williams indicated in the conditions of approval, that the northernmost portion of that right-of-way is to be retained as a general utility easement in order to accommodate their existing facilities.
 The only other condition staff is recommending is that damage or relocation of existing utilities or infrastructure be at the applicant's expense. Since this was a right-of-way vacation request, the Planning Commission did hear this compared to the last item, which was an easement vacation that the Commission does not consider.
 When it was heard by the commission at their agenda session, they felt at ease enough with it to put it on their consent agenda, which was approved unanimously nine to zero and forwarded to council accordingly. With that, I can take any questions that the council has. And Mayor, I believe Shawn Johnson is the applicant for this item. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? I don't really have anything to address. You'll have to come tonight if it's cool.
 My name is Shawn Johnson. I live at 427 North 37th Place in Rogers. I'm just representing University Baptist Church for a 0.34 acre right-of-way and alley vacation with conditions of the 30 by 80 foot UE to remain. I really don't have any other comments. Everything has been addressed accordingly.
 um any questions for the applicant or yes but more for jonathan um the conditions the recommendations are already baked in we don't have to amend anything that's correct the ordinance that mr williams read included both then my second question is just it seems like with a lot of these vacations that we're dealing with stuff where people have already built on an easement how does this
 How does this come to be? How does this happen, Jim Riley? It can occur under a number of circumstances. This one, we've not been able to identify exactly what was the inflection point at which a building permit was issued or something to that effect. To Mr. Rhodes' comment on the last one, it was a matter of surveyor pins being put in the wrong place and so a building encroached upon it.
 We've seen instances where other governmental authorities, including the University of Arkansas, have built buildings on a right-of-way, and it becomes a matter, more of a clerical matter, to get the right-of-way cleaned up after the fact. So I don't think there's one singular way that this occurs. It can be a multitude of different ways that it comes to council. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? All right. Let's get some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You're okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address and those that's in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone in the chamber would like to speak on this do you have anybody on zoom no sir okay
 i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what action would the council like what discussion would council like right and motion that we suspend the rules and move to the second reading
 Second. We have a motion to second. Go to second reading. Sarah, do you have something? I just had a question for the city attorney. Just in regard to what Council Member Stafford said, that there's been several kind of unique situations like this where it seems like things have ended up building. Are there any potential recourses for the city? And, I mean, once there are buildings there, are there any potential recourses for the city?
 I mean, is there any avenue for the city to take any action? I mean, that's why I just wanted to double check that. I don't think that that's maybe the case, but thought I would ask. I really don't think so. We've run into this for 30 years, at least, that I know about because I was on the council when it happened.
 plus 23 years here we just occasionally mistakes are made could have been a city making mistake i mean as as jonathan said when a building permit was issued we should have probably caught it their their surveyor should have caught it their title company should have caught it so we don't know for exactly why it was not caught it's obvious that this is not useful to the city at this point in time if it ever was
 And it's so, you know, we go through these vacations when these mistakes are found. But I don't think there's any way we could like sue them or do something like this and try to recover any money. Well, so I didn't know if potentially there might be any value given that connectivity, you know, that area of town being in a more dense, becoming more infill in that area and potentially
 you know if there would be any value to the city of that portion of land possibly i just didn't know okay anything else and so this is uh ordinance what action would you all like to take did you make a mo you made a motion did you i'm sorry we've got a motion second yeah you have a motion made by stafford seconded by jones okay would you please call the road herzberg yes stafford yes jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Herna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. In order to approve VAC 24-18 for property located at 314 West Lafayette Street in Ward 2 to vacate about a third of an acre of street right-of-way. Move that we suspend the rolls and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Riedeker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 kirk yes an ordinance vacate ordinance to approve vacation 24-18 for property located at 314 west lafayette street in ward 2 the vacate a 0.34 acre parcel of street right-of-way any final comments from the council actually would you please call the road hertzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes verna yes
 Bunch yes, Kirk. Yes Hey still number seven an ordinance to approve vacation 24-20 for property located at the west end of West Treadwell Street Ward 2 to vacate point two two acres of street right away Yeah, whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for purposes
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk
 In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner developer's expense. Number two, water line and existing meters must remain in service to existing customers and full access must be maintained for operation of the lines until such time as the associated buildings are demolished.
 3. The existing sewer manhole within the proposed vacation area and the connecting downstream sewer mains shall be properly abandoned unless the applicant can demonstrate to the Utilities Department that the upcoming development will certainly be tying into this line in the near future. 4. Drainage in the right-of-way shall be revised or designed to avoid damage to downstream properties prior to removal.
 Number five an easement plat shall be recorded dedicating utility easements required by Cox Swepco Black Hills energy and any other utility companies prior to the building permit approval Okay, John. Thank you mayor. This property is east of downtown And
 immediately west of the intersection of Duncan Avenue and Treadwell Street, just east of the Fayetteville High School football stadium that you can see on the aerial image here. The request is to vacate just shy of a quarter acre of public right-of-way, which represents the westernmost extensive Treadwell Street, where that ends currently into the northeast corner of Fayetteville Public Schools football stadium.
 It may also be familiar to council as a budding two pieces of property that were part of a combined rezoning request on the west side of Duncan Avenue that was approved earlier this year.
 As you can see here, again, it includes the westernmost extents of Treadwell Avenue as it approaches the Fayetteville Public Schools property. It is the location of several utilities and does function a drainage purpose today, which is a major factor in being included in several of the conditions of approval that I'll get into in just a moment.
 Staff has not identified any issues with the request. This street step out serves only two properties, the one immediately to the north and the one immediately to the south, which again are both proposed to be redeveloped. Accordingly, staff is ensuring that this right-of-way vacation is being tied to the redevelopment of those properties. Too often we've seen right-of-way vacations approved in Fayetteville for projects that did not come to fruition. We lost that right-of-way that could better serve future developments.
 We feel that council is protected with the conditions that are included in our recommending approval. Without repeating exactly what Mr. Williams just said, there are five of those conditions. One is that an easement plot be received and approved. That's one of the final steps before a building permit is issued. So it is a strong indicator that the entitlement process has been largely passed through.
 Also, that the right of way that is accommodating any drainage or directing any drainage today be incorporated into development of this overall property. Additionally, with the sanitary sewer line that is in Treadmill today, it must be abandoned or incorporated into this development.
 The fourth condition is that the water meters be required to stay in place until the development does come to fruition. And finally, our standard condition regarding who will bear the cost of any damage or relocation to existing facilities.
 Similar to the last item, the planning commission felt comfortable enough with this item at their agenda session that they placed it on consent from which they forwarded it to city council by unanimous vote of nine to zero. And I'm available for any questions that council has and may have Chris Barabo down as the applicant for this item, but I'm not seeing him in, or I'm not seeing him in person or online to this point, or perhaps Mr. Mills might be available as well. I'm not sure.
 certainly who's representing it if you'd like to open the mic for them okay would the african like to speak for the council or if you're there or well okay well we'll just all right one question says the council have the staff let's do that mr mayor i have one jonathan this is just to confirm the vacation will not occur until a building permit is issued is that accurate
 The easement plot is the point at where we typically tie it. And the easement plot is the last item that has to be taken care of before a building permit can be issued. So I hate to split that air with you, Council Member Wiedeker. But it's important for us to tie it to an easement plot because that is the document that dedicates other easements and right away to us. And so it represents that give and take point where potentially vacant right of ways and easements are documented and dedicated ones are also captured and given to the city.
 It's a good hair to split. Thank you. Thanks.
 Good. Well, then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those that's in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by then will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that wants to speak to us about this particular topic?
 anybody on zoom no sir okay you're going to bring back to the council this is an ordinance what discuss with the council i have are what the council like tech i'd make a motion to spin the rules and go to secretary second we have a motion second to go to the second region jackson would you please call the robin herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes more yes yes yes
 ferna yes lunch yes yes and your orders approve the ac 24-20 for property located at the west end of west treadwell street in ward 2 to vacate 0.22 acres of street lighted way mayor make a motion spend the rules go third and final read second second okay we have a motion in several seconds motion in several seconds to go to the third and final ring jackson please call the
 Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Hello. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. An ordinance to approve the AC 24-20 for property located at the west end of West Treadwell Street and Ward 2 to vacate 0.22 acres of street-wide of way.
 All right. Any final comments from the council? Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Let's go on to number eight.
 An ordinance rezoning the property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-42 for approximately 0.84 acres located at 1055 North Pollard Avenue in Ward 2 from RO Residential Office and NC Neighborhood Conservation to
 NSG Neighborhood Services General. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RO, Residential Office, and NC, Neighborhood Conservation, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Thank you. John.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in central Fayetteville, just north of downtown and block or one block west of the intersection of College Avenue and North Street, and includes a bit between three quarters of an acre and one acre of land at the southwest corner of Pollard Avenue and North Street, just south of UAMS's Fayetteville facility.
 The property is developed with one single family home and is not characterized or impacted by any identified protected streams or FEMA floodplains in the area.
 The request from the applicant is to rezone the property from its current split zone status, which the southern approximately one-half is zoned NC Neighborhood Conservation and the remainder of the property, which is zoned RO Residential Office to a uniform zoning designation of NSG, Neighborhood Services General.
 Staff does find the request to be compatible from a land use standpoint. The Neighborhood Services General Zoning District relates both well to the UT Urban Thoroughfare Zoning District to the east, which allows a very high level of intensity and density in residential and non-residential forms, and also to the single family neighborhoods to the south and west.
 where the RO zoning district allows a variety of residential uses and potential commercial uses up to five stories in size. And the NC zoning district allows single family uses limited to three stories. A uniform NSG zoning district allows a more transitional three stories across the property along with smaller scale residential and non-residential uses.
 Similarly, staff finds the request to be compatible or consistent with our future land use map and with many of the infill factors that contribute to the property, including its access to nearby parks, utilities, and other services. We have not identified any issues with the site and are accordingly recommending in favor of the request.
 The Planning Commission forwarded the item, recommending approval by a unanimous 9-0 vote, finding that it was compatible from a land use standpoint. And to date we've received, I believe, one piece of public comment which has concerns about the home on the property and whether it's of historic nature and how it may be protected with this development. We don't have any city standards that would require that and it does appear that the home was built sometime in the 1940s.
 And with that, I'm available for any questions that the council has. And Mayor, I believe Andrea Fournay is online as the applicant for this item. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay. I have 10 minutes, not three. No, the applicant gets 10 minutes. Okay. I'm not going to take 10 minutes. I'm just here. I'm glad the planning commission approved it. And I think it's the best use for that property. I did...
 It is in the listing that several of the old mature walnuts that are on the property are to be removed and used for furnishings in the future, since I'm such a tree addict. So that's all. Okay. Now, does the council have any questions for the applicant or staff?
 Thank you, Mayor. I noticed that under Neighborhood Services General, there could be three and four family dwellings by right. And that could create quite a bit of congestion or traffic. And so with the access management standards, the city's requirement would be to exit on Pollard. Would that be accurate, Jonathan? That's accurate, correct. Okay, thank you.
 Okay, anything else? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone, the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to speak on this topic that's in the chamber?
 Susan. Nobody. Okay. All right. This is an ordinance. What action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like to have? I motion we move to the suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 In order to rezone the property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-42 for approximately 0.84 acres located at 1055 North Pollard Avenue in Ward 2 from our residential office and NC Neighborhood Conservation to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Oh sorry, no.
 No, I motion we suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading Second motion second go third and final rating Jackson would you please call the roll Hertzberg? Yes Stafford? Yes Jones. Yes More yes, we'd occur. Yes, Verna. Yes Punch yes, Turk. Yes
 In order to rezone the property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 2024-42 for approximately 0.84 acres, located at 1055 North Pollard Avenue in Ward 2, from RO Residential Office and NC Neighborhood Conservation to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Jackson, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 wedeker yes verna yes punch yes yes okay thank you all the skill number nine an ordinance to rezone the property inscribed in rezoning petition rzn 2024-43 for approximately 0.30 acres
 located at 1236 West Uncomfort Road in Ward 2, from RSF 4 residential single-family, four units per acre, to RIU residential intermediate urban kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville and the collective zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us towards what I'd class or characterize as North Central Fayetteville. It's in Ward 2. It's about 1,500 feet northwest of the intersection of... I apologize. I messed up my screen share again. It's about 1,500 feet northwest of the intersection of North and Garland. And...
 well that'll have to do i apologize uh just immediately east of the intersection of mount comfort road in addington the property is developed with a single family home that immediately accesses mount comfort road the request before council is to rezone the property from its existing rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban
 Staff does find this request to be compatible. This is very much a transitional area between a portion of this node around Garland and North that has some very high intensity residential uses, multifamily specifically to the Southwest and low density and intensity residential uses to the Northeast, albeit some with higher zoning entitlements, for instance, the acreage along Hendrick Street that is currently zoned to RSF 18
 residential single-family 18 units per acre from a land use planning consistency standpoint staff finds that this request is much more an acknowledgement of our future land use map and its designation of the property of city neighborhood area than the existing RSF for zoning district and
 The city neighborhood area is intended to support a wider variety of residential uses, especially on connecting corridors like Mount Comfort in this portion of Fayetteville. The number of infill factors that also contribute to that, including the proximity to the University of Arkansas campus, grocery stores, Lewis Field Park to the west, also contribute to staff finding this to be in line with our long-range planning goals.
 When it comes to issues, staff did want to touch on two items. One, which you may have noticed in the staff report, which is there was a commentary about a sewer capacity concern. You all will see these more often now. I think it came up a couple months ago about sewer capacity with a rezoning on the east side of town. So we do want to make sure we touch on them and go into a little bit of extra detail. In discussing this specific instance with our utilities engineer.
 They noted that it could be of concern with this property, however, it would take more detailed study, particularly with the third party that manages our sewer model, specifically because at the westernmost extent where that capacity issue occurs, there are two parallel sanitary sewer lines which this project could connect to one or both of them.
 the utility department would need to know more about how those two lines interplay with each other before knowing for certain if there is an actual capacity concern or not. Otherwise, there was a piece of public comment that staff did receive expressing opposition to this concern. They cited a number of items, particularly flooding, stormwater management, traffic and parking in this area.
 On the balance of issues, staff is recommending approval of the request to rezone the property to RAU. The Planning Commission forwarded this one recommending approval as well. It was a unanimous vote of 8-0. The main comment from the Planning Commission on this one was with regards to land use compatibility.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions, the council has. I apologize for the presentation formatting. I'll see if I can sort that out between items. And Mayor, I believe Shiloh Schwarding is here as the applicant for this item. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Hello, Mayor, City Council. My name is Skylar Schwarding. I am my wife and I are the owners of 1236 West Mount Comfort Road.
 We are proposing to rezone the property to create smart infill in the city center. The city plan 2040's infill matrix indicates a weighted score of 12.5. The elements of the city plan are mentioned in the presentation contribute to the score. It has over 215 feet of street frontage with an eight foot wide sidewalk for pedestrians and bikes.
 and it's across the street from the bus stop. There's plenty of room for all parking to be on-site. There's no need for trees to be removed from this property. It is designated as city neighborhood, which allows for more density. The property is not close to a FEMA-designated floodplain. The property already has a second curb cut, and we are encouraging home affordability and ownership.
 So I am requesting approval of this zoning and I'll be glad to answer any questions you might have. Do we have any questions for the applicant or the staff on this? Tracy. I don't know who this question should be directed at, but down the street further toward Mount Comfort, away from Garland, there's already an RIU and there's two large buildings down there.
 they are facing, I guess, perpendicular to the street. I don't know if you all have driven down there or not, but it is very, very tight and very crowded and that's the only RIU designation. I guess that's the front end of the story. The question is how many actual structures could be built on this piece of property with the rezoning to RIU?
 And could the orientation, is there any way to orient something like that is further down the street on this piece of property?
 Thank you for the question, Council Member Turek. I can take a stab at it and perhaps hand it off to the applicant if they have specific development plans they want to share. That certainly is a unique property in the sense that it is what we call a through lot in planning, meaning it has access on two public streets. The one you referenced further to the west, it has access to Mount Comfort on the south and Hendricks to the north.
 That afforded them some additional flexibilities, particularly with fire code to allow access to the site that they may not be otherwise able to achieve. With this property not having access to two public streets in that regard, it only fronts Mount Comfort Road. I see it being difficult to lay it out in a similar way. I think the only way that something like that could happen is if the applicant were trying to acquire property to their north to connect to the north.
 I think it's Carter Street to the north. So given the property in question tonight, I don't believe so. I think the units would be oriented towards the street itself. But again, I'd like to defer to the applicant if they have anything more detailed they'd like to offer. We're just going to do a lot split and for single family homes and just make it maybe two or three lots. That's all. And all of them will be facing Mount Comfort Road with access to Mount Comfort Road.
 Thank you very much because these other two that I was referencing, drive by there at 5 o'clock and take a look at what's going on right there. That street is very busy too and it's very narrow. Thank you for providing additional details that you didn't have to do. I appreciate it.
 Okay. Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. My question's for staff, and I'm just having this question as our continuation around the sewer questions I've been building from the last
 several meeting conversations. You said, you know, there have to be more details about the sewer, but there could be a concern just in an education standpoint. Say that yes, there needs to be some improvements sewer wise, like there's some kind of capacity increase that has to happen. Can you or someone in City Staff help to walk me through what that looks like?
 Certainly, it can follow a few different routes. There are a number of projects that are on the city's capital plan for water and sewer improvements. So, often those can, if they're ahead of the project, that can take care of a capacity issue. If they're in line or occurring tandem or concurrently with a project being developed, that represents an opportunity for the city to potentially move some of that liability off of our plate.
 request that the developer cost share for us. That can be beneficial in two ways. It can save us not only the money, but we can often have the contractor for the developer do the work, which is the best of both worlds. And we can keep our crews for our projects elsewhere in the city or leaks or otherwise. Another
 avenue that it could happen is the developer has to absorb all those costs themselves. But I think that's basically the third option, but circling back to the second one,
 Any cost share as the council may or may not know is is subject to you all's approval Ultimately those those are typically run through the water and sewer committee who make recommendation as those come forward to the City Council I believe one of water and sewers main considerations is if that cost share Conserve a public purpose as well such as a capacity issue or a dead-end line or an aged line things of that nature and
 perhaps answering a question you didn't ask also one challenge that we've seen as we've started trying to incorporate this information for council into our rezoning reports is that need for a greater level of detail before understanding an issue i think one of the most prominent ones that the utility engineer shared with me today when discussing one of them is
 that there is a lot of those, that modeling information does not necessarily have topographic information to it, or it makes assumptions about topographic information, like how much fall a line has, which can make a significant difference, particularly on sanitary sewer lines, where the greater amount of fall is, as you can imagine, you can move much more volume through the line. And so that kind of information often only comes with a detailed site survey with a project as it moves forward. Very helpful, thank you.
 anything else okay let's go to public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by them will speak after that who would like to address us on this topic is in the
 Hi, Nicole Lynn, Ward 3. Y'all are going to hear the same thing from me over and over, and I don't know everything about rezoning, but I would like to encourage you to vote for this. Anytime we have higher density living areas, we really need to go with it. I would like to remind everybody of the plan that says that we need 1,500 units a year, and we know from research that to get ahead of this housing crisis, we need to produce more than that.
 So really, y'all should be looking at 2,000 units a year if you want to stabilize this housing. That's one of the biggest things you can do. Three instead of one is a great start, right? Instead of three in there. Another thing I would encourage you to always ask, are they going to provide parking? That's a big thing. Three units, they should be able to provide it, at least in the driveway. But as we're worried about this, I feel like all of our units should be able to provide parking.
 All wards need to take on this apartment burden. We have some, like ward one, that really over represents apartments. And I understand people want single family homes and stuff. But we have got to spread it out. It is not fair that some areas, and I'm not saying that people have to lose that what's already there, but there's open places where we can put apartments. So we need to look and it really needs to go to all four wards.
 Please consider the long term of Fayetteville, not just what your constituents are going to vote for in the next election. Please consider what your grandchildren's grandchildren will be like here and if they will be able to afford to live here. And so I think we have four rezoning ordinance tonight. And you're probably going to hear me do this four times because I want to go on record. But please, please, please vote for it. And that's all. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan?
 there is no one on zoom and I mean really no one is on zoom so you can quit asking me unless I there's one there's really nobody on zoom at all and so must be too early for I don't know but anyway that's it move that we suspend the roles and go to the second reading second second most in the second to go to the second reading that's that's all the road Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. In order to rezone the property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2024-43 for approximately three-tenths of an acre located at 1236 West Mount Comfort Road in Ward 2 from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 I have a question. So Jonathan, currently this is zone RSF4. Is the reason why the applicant can't put two houses on here or not? Is it still too small for that? That would be
 Yes, too small. It's less than a third of an acre. And RSF4, despite its name, doesn't take exactly a quarter of an acre per house, but it does require about 8,000 square feet. And I have another question. If we rezone at RAU and the lots are split and there's four homes on there, would each home, I guess, have access to Mount Comfort, even though you have an access management constraints at times? Yes.
 Is that how that would work? Yes. In this location, because of Mount Comfort's classification, each unit could have their own access point. Okay. Thank you so much. I'm sorry to continue. On higher classification streets, we can require shared access points, but Mount Comfort is considered a residential street. Okay. Thank you very much.
 And just for the record, I want to state, I believe the applicant stated there would be three units on the lot. Okay. I thought we suspend the rolls and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Dex, please hold the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. In order to rezone the property described in the rezone petition RZN 2024-43 for approximately three tenths of an acre located at 1236 West Mount Comfort Road in Ward 2 from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Any final comments from the council?
 I'm sorry, I have one final comment. I know that you will do a really good job with this development. I'm very familiar with that area because that street is so narrow and there are some flooding problems and concerns there. However, I'm going to support it tonight, but I hope that some of the flooding concerns and the sewer issues can get cleared up during this development process.
 Anything else? All right. Jackson, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. All right. Let's go to number 10.
 An ordinance to rezone the property described in the resounding petition as far as the N2024-44 for approximately 0.90 acres located at 2001 West 18th Street Ward 1 from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to R.I.U. Residential Intermediate Urban. Yes. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from C1, Neighborhood Commercial, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to southwest Fayetteville. It's a little ways, or about one lot removed east from Custer Lane and 18th Street. Excuse me, just north of the Red Arrow neighborhood. The property is totals about...
 about 0.9 acres and is currently developed with a single family dwelling. The current zoning on the property is C1, neighborhood commercial, and the applicant's request is to rezone it to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Staff does find the request to be compatible. This area has seen several rezonings in the recent past, including to RIU a few years ago and the property immediately to the east to RI12 in just August of this year.
 Staff finds that the RAU zoning district and its allowance for only three-story buildings and smaller scale buildings up to four units attached can be complementary to the attached residential immediately to the west as it segues down to the larger lot single family subdivision to the south and then the larger multifamily subdivisions to the north and east.
 Similarly, staff finds this to be consistent with our long-range plans. This property has access to our trail network immediately to the northeast. The Town Branch Trail has access to transit as well, in addition to the typical city services and utilities that you'd expect in a fairly developed area.
 Some other items to note, this request will change the tree preservation requirement for the property since that is tied to zoning. C1 has a 20% tree canopy minimum, whereas RRU has a 15% canopy minimum minimum.
 Additionally, there is a protected stream that crosses the southeastern corner of this site. So the majority of the property is away from that and its standards. And that protected stream does have FEMA floodplain associated with it, which you can see in the blue for the 100-year floodplain and the orange for 500-year floodplain in the image on the screen below.
 CONSIDERING THE COMPATIBILITY AND CONSISTENCY WITH OUR PLAN, STAFF IS RECOMMENDING IN FAVOR THIS REQUEST. THE PLANNING COMMISSION FORWARDED IT UNANIMOUSLY RECOMMENDING THAT THE COUNCIL APPROVE IT. THEIR MAIN COMMENT, AGAIN, SIMILAR TO MANY OF THE ITEMS TONIGHT, WAS THAT IT IS COMPATIBLE WITH SURROUNDING LAND USES.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions have, or excuse me, any questions the Council has and there I have will Kelsner listed as the applicant for this. Oh, and he's right here. Thank you. Good evening Council will Kelsner here on behalf of the applicant of this item passed with, um.
 unanimously with little to no comment from the planning commission and no public comment whatsoever i think so i'm just here if you guys have any questions thanks yeah i can assure you if there's been some public comment i've heard i live right in that area so um where are we yep yes we are
 All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Just give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those on Zoom will be participating, but Zoom will speak after that. Is anyone in the chamber?
 Hi, Nicole, and again, board three. I would just encourage you to vote for this for all the reasons I mentioned before. And it is in board one, kind of like the point I was making, but that is a high-density area, and I think that really is good for redevelopment. So I would encourage you to vote for it. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else?
 i assume we have nobody on zoom correct so i won't ask you again i would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a bunch of a second because the second week oh oh sarah i'm sorry i had a quick question here um for jonathan now does this
 I don't know if you mentioned this or not, but since there's a stream side running through here, does our stream side protection cover like a buffer on that?
 It does. Our streamside protection zone is in GIS, but that's not the survey level accuracies. Our streamside protection zone is made of two categories. There's one immediately adjacent to the stream bank and one beyond that. That's predicated on understanding where the stream bank is because that's where those measurements begin.
 The short answer is yes. The longer answer is that we don't have any verifiable distances to you today. Typically it can, it's, I'm sorry, I'm suddenly blanking. Chris Brown said, I think it's 50 feet. I think it's 25 and 25 for the stream side and then the management zones from the top of the bank. But if there's areas of exceptional slope within the stream side protection area, that can actually be extended out even further to make sure that the bank is not eroding further, that we're addressing those sensitive high slope areas.
 Okay, so it's 25 and then 25? That's correct. I think it goes to 35 and 35. Does this have any, I mean, is the slope substantial or anything like that over there?
 There is within the bank itself. So I think that's something when development comes in that would be evaluated. We use our GIS to give us a general sense of what it will look like, but we have to rely on actual topographic data from an ALTA survey or some other verifiable source. Okay. Thank you very much. Certainly. That was a great question. Sorry about that. Anything else? We are...
 have we got a motion in a second to go to the second reading okay please call the rose herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes verna yes
 lunch yes dirk yes in order to resolve the property described the rezoning petition rzn 2024-44 for approximately nine tenths of an acre located at two oh two thousand one west 18th street and ward one from c1 neighborhood commercial to riu residential intermediate urban i was moved to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second the motion second to go to the third and final rate tax moves please call the roll
 Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes More yes, we'd occur. Yes, Arna. Yes punch. Yes Turk yes
 In order to rezone the property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2024-44 for approximately nine-tenths of an acre located at 2001 West 18th Street in Ward 1 from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Mayor, as a quick point of clarification, I think I misspoke in answering Council Member Bunch's question. With regards to the Streamside Protection Ordinance, it is a default 25-feet waterside zone and a 25-foot management zone. It's the waterside zone that expands when there's areas of steep slope. Both zones don't expand. So that waterside zone, which is the most protective one, is the one that expands. So I'm sorry if I misspoke earlier. I kind of figured that out. So thank you, though. I appreciate it. Okay. Any final comments? Mike?
 else oh i have certainly checked with the neighbors on this one i they're uh they're supportive i certainly want to be able to come back to the neighborhood barbecue all right um no final comments jackson please call the roll hertzberg yes stafford yes jones yes more yes
 Whitaker yes, Erna yes Punch yes, hurt. Yes Okay number 11
 An ordinance rezoned the property inscribed rezoning petition RZN 2024-45 for approximately 0.20 acres located at 2286 West Stone Street Ward 1 from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RU residential intermediate urban. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section one.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire to the zoning change provided in Section 1. John?
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us out towards Western Fayetteville, but still on the side of Interstate 49. Specifically, it's just northwest of Ramey Junior High, west of the intersection of Stone and Seng. The property includes just about a fifth of an acre of land currently developed with a single family dwelling.
 It accesses onto Stone Street and is not subject of any overlay, including our hillside hilltop overlay district. Although land further to the north where it begins to get steeper and soils are different, there are portions within the hillside hilltop overlay district which you can see faintly in this stair-stepped polygon that you see further north.
 The request before council, as Mayor and Mr. Williams noted, is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Staff finds this request to be compatible with surrounding land uses.
 This is a almost singularly multifamily area, even considering a broader area. It is mostly characterized by attached residential housing intermixed with single-family homes. And with RAU zoning district's allowance for everything from single to four-family homes, staff finds it to be compatible.
 Additionally, given the small size of the site, and this was brought up at agenda session, RAU affords additional development potential compared to the RMF zoning districts, the multifamily zoning districts, given it's more flexible allowances for lot widths and standards of that nature.
 uh for many of the same reasons that staff supported their finds to be ladies compatible we also find it to be consistent with our long-range plans this area envisions a variety of housing types while it also envisions non-residential uses as well this is a mid-block area where staff feels is likely more appropriate for that variety of housing rather than more commercial uses
 With the infill factors also contributing to this, it seems appropriate to allow that additional increment of entitlement to allow development of attached residential housing. There are two items I want to touch on this. One is a question of sewer capacity.
 and discussing this property with our utility engineer. The question is just the unit count that could potentially be developed on this site. There is a known capacity pinch point, if you will, as you get further south along Tseng.
 And it's unclear based on what's proposed with this property, whether that will aggravate it or whether the capacity remains for a few additional units developed on this site, especially considering there's an existing dwelling on the house today that might be removed and has its own contribution as it is.
 Additionally, when considering tree preservation, going from the RSF 4 zoning district, which has the highest tree canopy requirements to RRU, perhaps unsurprisingly reduces it. That will take it from 25 to 15% if the property is redeveloped. Staff is recommending approval on the balance of considerations. The Planning Commission also forwarded this one unanimously by a vote of nine to zero, finding that it is compatible with the surrounding land uses.
 And I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And Mayor Will Keltstrom is also the applicant on this one. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Nope. Okay. All right.
 Does the council have any questions for the staff or the applicant? Yes, Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, that's interesting about the sewer capacity issue also here. So this is only 0.2 acres. So under RIU, what would be the maximum number of dwellings or units? I mean, there's multifamily clearly in the area.
 Given one of my most common metrics for answering that question is looking at the lot width of a property, given the RAU standards have a defined amount of width necessary per lot, with this one being about 80 feet and the RAU zoning district requiring a minimum of 18, I think four is the likeliest outcome. I think between parking and stormwater and tree preservation, that may even be unlikely. So I think four is very likely the ceiling.
 Let's see, I had another question and then I just spaced it out, but it'll probably come back to me. Thank you. Happens to me all the time. Alright, anything else from the council? Any questions or anything? Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration.
 Please don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating in the Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us that's in the chamber? Okay. I assume we have no one on Zoom.
 All right, I'm going to bring back to the council. This is a ordinance. It's on the first reading What's the wishes the council what action would the council like take what conversation with the council like to have? Theresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. I remembered my question. It just took me a little while. So with that size of property, is there the opportunity or the possibility of putting another multifamily unit in there with having more capacity or more use than four units? I can't say for certain. I don't want to tell you no.
 I think the parking requirement, I think again it's that constellation of development requirements that are very much going to constrain what can be done on this piece of property. Any unit would have to be parked. Then at the most intense they can do up to four attached units. The REU zone district doesn't allow what we technically describe as multifamily and fable, so five units.
 So I again, I don't want to tell you, no, it can't happen, but I have a hard time, given my understanding of our development code, visualizing what anything more than four units on that property could potentially look like. Like the applicant is here and I don't know if they have anything they want to share. What I'm struggling with or I'm trying to evaluate is the sewer capacity limitation issue.
 I think it's really bad if we don't really discuss that sort of thing. I wouldn't want to rezone it and have the applicant's expectations be, and then being told, no, we don't have any additional capacity. So I think that discussion is really important in this situation. And it looked like some of the other places where we may have had a sewer capacity issue, there were some other options. But so that's my struggle right now. Thank you.
 I think that's a fair question. Is there any kind of answer for that? I know that's in a certain basin in the city, so I'm sure we're looking at the capacity, aren't we? I wanted to ask Jonathan if it's all right, at what point does that development kick into an analysis of its own engineering study pursuits?
 Our city engineering group, which does development review on behalf of a utility department up to a point, has the authority to request a sewer study with any development. So there's not a baseline at which it could be required. Does that answer your question? So my question was, even though we're acknowledging that there could be, we don't even know until there's a proposed development, right? That's correct. I think it comes back to the feedback I think I gave to Quinn.
 question of council member Moore's which is when it gets into a fine of grain is counting one or two or three or four units as opposed to larger scale developments that often requires much finer levels of detail including how many feet a sewer line is falling from one distance to another could potentially be the difference between having capacity to handle those small increments of development
 compared to larger ones. And that's one of the reasons why we're putting about $110 million in water and sewer in the next year. Yes, I'll see where you're going. All right, what other questions do we have? Bob, you had your light on. I was just gonna motion that we suspend the rules and move to the second reading, or I'm not sure what reading, whatever the next reading is. I thought you had a question, okay.
 I did have a follow-up question about the sewer. I was just looking at that the junior high is there, and I apologize if I blanked over you talking about, I'm not sure when we have more of like an institution. I know some places potentially do additional like holding or processing, but I didn't know how they impact with it being right there with the sewer, or if that'd be totally separate. I mean, because it is across the street from it. They may have no impact whatsoever, but I wasn't sure.
 I'm sorry, I'm not sure I'm following. I'm not aware of any plans for Raimi to be changed. Is your question about Raimi being redeveloped or?
 Well, so there is discussion about the reuse of that building over time. And so I just, that's what I just was curious about. I don't know what their system looks like today. And then if that does have any impact with that development being, you know, right there, if they potentially have any impact to one another. I just wasn't quite sure. And that may be something you can't answer today. I don't know. So. Yeah. Thank you for that clarification. That's not something that I have.
 I think enough detail to be able to answer. I'm not familiar with where Ramey connects to our system. I do know to your point that the school district is contemplating what Ramey would look like in a different form. I think a magnet high school is a discussion at some point. And when...
 developments like that occur. There's a number of assumptions that are incorporated into sewer studies based on usage by activity. I don't have the background to know whether a junior high versus a high school and the number of attendees, if that would have an impact or not, but I think we'd be afforded the opportunity to look at that when that occurs. I think we've got a motion on the floor and I'll second it. All right, we have a motion to go to the second reading.
 Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes.
 In your ordinance to rezone the property described, a rezone petition RZN 2024-45 for approximately a fifth of an acre located at 2286 West Stone Street in Ward 1 from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. I have a motion to second and go to third and final reading. Jacksonville Police, call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Yes.
 Stafford yes Jones yes Moore yes Whitaker yes Berna Bunch yes Turk yes in order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-45 for approximately a fifth of an acre located at 2286 West Stone Street in Ward 1 from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban
 Filed comments from council Sorry Jackson which police call the world Hertzberg. Yes Stafford yes, don't yes more. Yes, we decker. Yes, Verna Yes, lunch. Yes Turk. Yes It's good number 12
 an ordinance rezoned property describing rezoning petition rzn 2024-46 for approximately 0.16 acres located at 510 west prairie street ward 2 from ro residential office to dg downtown general kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from R.O. Residential Office to D.G. Downtown General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. John. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in downtown Fayetteville, or at least at its southwesternmost extents of downtown Fayetteville. Given its existing RO residential office zoning, it perhaps comes as no surprise that it was just outside the downtown master plan boundaries when that was done in the early 2000s. As a result, it retained its previous zoning designation from several years ago.
 It's currently developed with a residential dwelling that accesses directly onto Prairie Street. Despite having close proximity to the Tanglewood branch, it is not within any floodplain or subject to any streamside protection standards that staff has identified at this point.
 The applicant is requesting to rezone the property from RO, residential office, to DG, downtown general. This would be similar to the areas of downtown general that were rezoned in 2019 immediately to the north and the east as the perception of what is downtown has continued to expand westward.
 Staff does find this request to be consistent. This is an area of very widely varied land uses, both residential and non-residential. At this point, the RO zoning district is beginning to appear as something of a relic, given its limited residential allowances and very prescribed non-residential allowances, effectively just
 Accordingly, we staff recommends that it be changed to allow the much more flexible uses allowed within the downtown general zoning district. Both districts allow five stories, so there'll be no difference there in what's entitled on the property. But downtown general will afford the opportunity to buy right, develop up to multifamily dwellings as long as, or in addition to facilities like restaurants or retail activities.
 From a city plan standpoint, staff absolutely finds this request to be consistent. This area has many factors that factor into it being an appropriate infill location, which is perhaps unsurprising given how close it is to the dead middle of the city.
 It has a grocery store about a block away. It's near the University of Arkansas campus. The Razorback Greenway is several, about 100 feet away. And it has access to our existing utility and services that the city provides.
 which brings up the question of sewer capacity. As with several other items tonight, I had the opportunity to visit about this property with our utility engineer, and it was identified in our sewer master plan that there may be concerns in this area. However, similar to the item that was considered on Mount Comfort earlier tonight, there are a multitude of options. There's not a single line that goes in this area, and there is a point just at the end of that area where there's a lot of concern
 several major lines come in and then two lines split off, which affords this property to potentially have the opportunity to connect to one that does not have an existing capacity issue. Accordingly, our utilities engineer advised that they don't have any immediate concerns, but we have been noting throughout tonight and in our reports where capacity issues have been identified by our model.
 Otherwise, they want to touch on tree preservation. The RO zoning district does require 20% and that the DG zoning district with its much more urban inclination or leanings does have a much lower tree preservation requirement cutting it in half from 20 to 10%. With the issues in consideration, staff is recommending approval. When the planning commission considered this item at their meeting, they forwarded it to city council recommending approval unanimously.
 Again, similar to the other items, the major points cited had to do with land use compatibility. And I'm happy to take any questions that the council has and Mayor, I have Will Kellstrom down as the applicant for this item as well. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? Okay. What questions does the council have for the staff or the applicant? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 if i get one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone in the chamber would like to speak for the council on this topic okay well i'll bring back to the council this is an ordinance
 It's on the first reading. What action would the council like? I would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. That being said, all right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Bedecker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk?
 And in order to rezone the property described in the rezone petition RZN 2024-46 for approximately 0.16 acres located at 510 West Prairie Street in Ward 2 from RO Residential Office of VG Downtown General. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes.
 Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Sorry. And ordinance to rezone the property described in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-46 for approximately 0.16 acres located at 510 West Prairie Street and Ward 2 from RO Residential Office to DG Downtown General. Any final comments from the council?
 I'm having trouble pulling this up on my iPad Jonathan could you show us that just show me the map of it first is this what you're looking for councilmember bunch yes okay thank you very much appreciate it good please call the roll Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes more yes
 Whitaker yes, Verna yes, Bunch yes Yes All right, so number 13 an ordinance rezoned the property inscribed rezoning petition RZN 2024 dash 48 for approximately 1.4. Oh acres located on North Meadowlands Drive in Ward 4 and
 from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services.
 Section 2 that the City Council city of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville or flexes on change provided in section 1 Hey Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to West Fayetteville and Ward 4 and includes about 1.4 acres immediately north of the intersection of Weddington Drive and Meadowlands Drive. As you can see in the aerial, which is accurate to its state today, the property is undeveloped and largely open with just a scattering of existing trees on the site. The request is to rezone it from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services.
 Staff is recommending in favor of the request on the balance of considerations and differences between those two zoning districts. CS most prominently allows a much wider variety of residential housing types, ranging from single family up to multifamily, where RO, residential office, is limited to single and two family units by right and requires additional residential by conditional use permit.
 The other major distinction between CS and RO is, or what is not a distinction is that both allow offices up to five stories or buildings up to five stories. CS would also allow additional flexibility for other commercial uses, including retail and restaurants where RO does not allow those by right.
 In looking at the request through the lens of our long-range plans, staff finds this request to rezone the property to CS Community Services to be complementary to our future land use map designation of the property as a city neighborhood area.
 It is very close proximity to a major transportation corridor in the city of Fayetteville, Weddington Drive, and has several factors that contribute to it being considered an ideal infill site. It's in close proximity to the city's fire department nearby on Ruple. It has access to water and sewer. It has access to the trail system on Weddington that is gradually being redeveloped from its older asphalt style to a more concrete one.
 which all contributes to staff finding this request to be consistent with our long range planning goals.
 Among issues that are in consideration, perhaps the foremost one in this instance is one of sewer capacity. I apologize for the scale of this map. It is very substantial, but there are a large number of properties within this basin. If you've not heard me use that term before, it's the area of topography that naturally collects all the sewer in a particular area to a series of lines that all funnel to a particular point.
 In this instance, you can see in the upper right-hand part of the map, the northeast corner, the teal box, that's the property that the council is considering with this item.
 I oversimplified the route of the sanitary, but ultimately it will feed to what's known as lift station 22, which is in the lower left-hand corner, the southwest corner. This station is at capacity today. There have been known surcharges, meaning where sewerage actually backs up out of the line. Okay.
 And it's something that both utility staff, engineering staff, and development review staff are very well aware of. There are many projects that are in the entitlement pipeline well ahead of this piece of property. And the utility department is working with them today on what upgrades to that lift station look like. Getting more specifically into the point, Council Member Moore asked earlier about what does that improvement look like in this instance? Okay.
 This is a project that's on our 2030 capital improvement plan. And the feedback that we've given the developers at this point is if they want to move faster than us, they will need to bear the cost of those improvements if we don't have that budgeted at this time. Otherwise, they and other developments or entitlements in this area will have to await the city making those improvements on our time and on our schedule.
 With that said, I didn't include it here, but when it comes to tree preservation requirements, it remains the same between the two zoning districts being requested. It's 20% between RO, residential office, but also CS as well.
 And we have received some public comments at this item, specifically at the commission meeting itself. There was a concern expressed about the potential for five-story development immediately abutting the single family neighborhoods to the north. May bear mentioning again that both the existing zoning district and the proposed zoning district do allow five stories today.
 And with that, and on the balance of consideration, staff is recommending approval. The Planning Commission did forward it to City Council, also recommending approval. However, this was by a split vote. It was a 6-3 decision with those in favor citing land use compatibility and those opposed concerned about building heights that I described a moment ago. And also the intensity of the potential commercial uses decision.
 Again, the residential office zoning district is largely limited to very small scale retail and services as well as offices. Whereas CS, the community services zone district allows a much wider variety of retail office and restaurant uses by right. With that, I'm happy to take any questions that the council has. And Mayor, I believe Chris Tilley is the applicant on this item. Mayor Warranty, I'd like to speak for the council.
 This is actually Jake Chavis with Odyssey Engineering. I'm also the property owner. I'm here for any questions if you have any.
 Mayor, I have one comment. I want to make sure that all the applicants know that if you pass the rezoning, we're not warranting any sewer service there. We're watching the issue and that's something that concerns us, but we're not guaranteeing that a property can be developed to its maximum potential and use our sewer. That's something that's going to be looked at during development. So in a zoning decision, you are not warranting that there is sewer service.
 Jonathan bring up that map yeah that overall map that the aerial map mr. mayor yeah give me that no I need to the color thing the zoning thing okay okay now Rupert Road is real close in here right that's great mayor it's just off screen to the right okay when we were
 years ago we developed what we called the box around the city. Maruqua Road was one of the areas that we didn't want to get too far out. As you can see we're starting to really move west again. So that puts stress and strain on your services. I mean I have concerns about it looking a little sprawling to tell you the truth. So I just, the
 we were trying to contain the growth and do the infill but with a lot of these developments i'm starting to see now there's they're stretching out the services which is is causing us a lot of stress and strain on what we have here so we have to be very careful not just whether we're going to grow but how we go so and of course i know theresa's out there and she represents everywhere i see your light on so what do you have
 Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to just clarify with Jonathan, you talked about several other projects ahead of this one, right, that already had entitlements. Is that really based on the project or is that based on the rezoning? I guess what I'm asking is, if we rezone, does this change the order of entitlement?
 That's a good question. There's no single answer. I think we've identified between five and six projects that are in various states of entitlement. All have been zoned to their intended use. Some have also gotten what we consider large-scale development or preliminary plat entitlement from our planning commission.
 I believe one or two of them are also at grading permit approval, which is actually getting to those construction level approvals where they're installing onsite utilities and needing to contemplate hooking up to our city system. I apologize, I don't remember if any of them are to the point of having building permits as well, but I think that gives a good sense that there is a spectrum of projects that are in that development pipeline.
 but uh let me just maybe say this again so it because the project hasn't been started it if we rezone it doesn't change where the um where the project would land within development or entitlement rights because you already have all these other projects that are further along so the the zoning at this point in terms of entitlement is is irrelevant in some ways
 I'm sorry, I'm not sure I understand your question, if you can rephrase it. So if...
 if we did not approve the rezoning tonight and there was a project that went forward under ro they would still be in the same the same line the same number of the queue as if we rezoned it tonight and a project developed with the new zoning district thank you that's perfectly clear yes that is that is the case development under this zoning district or the proposed one would be an exact same time schedule we don't have anything we've reviewed up to this point
 in the old days trees so a lot of times we would rezone the land where we could control it better than having just some wildcat kind of development out there where you can set things and everything else kind of thing yeah um jonathan you mentioned i believe you mentioned i want to make sure i heard this right that the current zoning and what's being proposed have the same height allowances
 that's correct okay because i thought it was interesting when you showed the negatives from the planning commission one was the height and it's like well that's not i i thought that was weird that they have that on there when it's not changing at all i if i may speculate or just i guess touch on that a little bit further i think
 i think when a rezoning request is being made it often has the sense of impending development which makes those standards perhaps seem more real if that makes sense i know i don't i may not be fairly characterizing those questions but i think that's you hear that reflected in public comment as well that the general public may not understand what a property could be used for until somebody's contemplating what they're going to do with that property i hope our planning commissioners understand that so um but uh
 Can you pull up the map with the zoning, I think, the surrounding zoning? I think it might have been the same one that the mayor was looking at. I think there was another one that was a little more... A little bigger. Yeah, a little bigger, more zoomed out. Somehow lost Rupert Road. Yeah, there was... But even in this map, you see there's already, it looks like commercial just on the other side of the street.
 And this would bring it up to what's on Weddington, right below it, right to the south of it. Is that correct? That's correct. The property to the south is community services. I definitely understand the concern of sprawl, but I do feel like that this is kind of, you know, I understand that RuPaul, I guess, was the old idea, but it looks like we already have the commercial here and the community services here.
 um so i don't think it's it's really adding to the sprawl since it is surrounded by this type of zoning well but i didn't support this either when it was came forward i mean it's just i wanted to keep it condensed years ago yeah but we didn't and that's okay and you are correct it is now it keeps going east and west
 well i guess it's time for public comment isn't it all right everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this in the chat okay nobody on zoom all right i'll bring back to the council
 I motion we move to the second reading. Second. Suspend the rules. I have a motion to second go to the second reading. Did you have something, Teresa? Okay. Um, I could hold it. Okay. Jacksonville Police, call the roll. Hertzberg. Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Verna. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 Yes. In order to rezone the property, describe the rezone petition RZN 2024-48 for approximately 1.4 acres located on North Meadowlands Drive in Ward 4 from RO Residential Office to CS Community Services. Move that we suspend the rolls and go to the third reading. Second. Motion second to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. In order to rezone the property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2024-48 for approximately 1.4 acres located on North Meadowlands Drive in Ward 4 from R.O. Residential Office to C.S. Community Services.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to comment that, you know, we defined sort of our growth area in our intensity area at least six or seven years ago, and that was sort of the mayor's box. And so we've been trying to think about that conceptually and in in.
 You know the not incentivizing growth or not allowing growth outside of those parameters And so I just want to remind the council that's kind of been What our plan has been for quite a while more intense development Higher up and not not become Dallas not become the Dallas suburban sprawl now
 Now, I realize the height allowance is the same for both of these, but the variety of uses is much wider and the intensity is much wider under CS. So I'm not going to be supporting that. Plus, we're at capacity with the sewer right now, too. So those are some of my considerations. Thank you. All right.
 Thank you, Mayor. I really appreciate the comments that Councilmember Turk made. I think that we've had some kind of growing conversations about infrastructure. I also really appreciate that we're having some dissonance in regard to getting to our outer edges. I think it's an incredibly tough conversation and consideration for us when we see the amount of individuals that are coming into our community.
 You know, I continually am bumping up against concerns, though, about how we manage when I think about the county being right next door and what happens whenever folks go that direction on septic. You know, I also struggle when I look at Farmington and there was the announcement today about a state lot.
 thinking about how we support that infrastructure. And so I'm not saying there's a wrong or a right. I just think that this is definitely a very hard consideration. I hope that it's something we'll continue to like elevate and to evolve maybe some additional strategic plans around this. Because, you know, if we don't have those regional partnerships to hold hands and have some level of alignment on some of this,
 then it's almost like we're pushing that sprawl even further beyond our borders. And so I don't necessarily like saying that, but that's my concern as well, is are we better off for Fayetteville to have the amount of regulations and oversight and thoughtfulness of the planning organization
 or are we gonna be allowing it to go way beyond our borders where we'll have to bear some of the brunt and the long-term cost of it long-term anyway? And so I wrestle with that in those decisions. So I just wanted to put that out there with colleagues too, as we're continuing to talk about these investments and these decisions. Yeah, Jonathan, you mentioned the,
 you know we're at capacity and it seems like we're bumping up across with that problem almost on every project we're talking about at an air capacity but the rezoning isn't going to allow them
 to build they still have a process to go through and the all these projects that are in line will will need that added capacity to actually come to fruition is that correct that's correct and to mr williams point approving the rezoning doesn't warrant that the city's going to be on the hook for that capacity issue yeah it is an important acknowledgement though since one of the factors the council does have to consider is adequate infrastructure when considering rezoning okay
 Jonathan, just to remind us, would you mind pulling up the map that depicts the mayor's box on all sides? I don't know if I have a map that depicts that. Allow me a moment. I've been told it's on the website. If you can allow me just a moment. And while you're doing that, I want to express deep and genuine appreciation for all of the infrastructure.
 information and commentary that you've been providing it is extremely helpful to us to understand the constraints under which we need to live and so I know it's extra work but boy is it certainly appreciated by this body certainly happy to to orient the council to what you're looking at this is this is from our bond page I'll start at 12 o'clock that is
 Ray and Ash before it turns northwards onto Steele, taking Joyce across to the northeast corner of the city, following 265 southward until it hits 16, following down the southwestern portion of the city to Razorback, then taking that north to MLK before proceeding westward to Rupel, which follows the western side or the left-hand side of the screen before it turns into
 uh howard nickel uh out in the county before coming back into the city again thank you very much sure uh jonathan what was the planning commission vote on this again six to three six to three john you would mayor that's okay um well you know i was i was going to say this looking at that box kind of reminds me we don't look at that that much anymore but
 It has not been that long ago that this council talked about the development box every single meeting, just about. And it was Matthew Petty, Sarah Marsh, you know, some of the former council members that aren't here right now. But that was a big discussion because we were trying to promote infill.
 and not go out. And that's how much things have changed in just a short time. That's what I'm trying to say. So it's not just like ancient history. It's fairly recent history that we were still dealing with that. So I still think it's a pretty good plan because especially when you get up around Howard Nichol,
 you know that's that's a whole different beast up there that's really out in the county it seems to be in the county a lot more than than where rupal road is now you know so it's it's all changing very fast but thank you jonathan this was where we were going to put the tall buildings inside that but we just you know everybody said well we're
 we've already got this here so let's just go a little further and then pretty soon you've gone way too far and i think we we're going to have some discussions on this but the issue with uh you know the issue with the sewer you know we can rezone something but it doesn't necessarily mean that they can build on it but you know i kind of don't like to rezone things that that we know that there's not the capacity of the sewer to support but um you
 I also think this is an area with a lot of growth and it's kind of is what it is for lack of a better thing to say. Thank you. So Jonathan, when we're looking at this map and that West side is Rupert Road and there's that blue buffer, the baby blue buffer, how far out are we? It looks like we're only like one block out from that.
 it is roughly where you see the finger pointing if that icon is visible to the council that is where the property you are considering what this item is and i i do agree that we don't want to keep but but i mean this is i feel this is there and considering what's next door i i i would rather see this here than further out you know um but we have grown in a way that i think that
 i don't know i would still consider this like on the edge of the box myself that's why you all get to vote are we ready to vote yeah we're ready to go jackson call row herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes more yes wedeker yes verna yes
 Yes. No. Okay. Well, that seems to conclude our business. Mayor, there was one topic you wanted me to remind everybody about. Oh, that's right. That's right. That's right. It had to do with the date that we selected for the city council meeting that was going to be the third, but you all picked the fifth. Yes.
 And it came to our attention that that is when the parade is, the 5th. And so for your consideration and while you're still in the voting mode of this meeting, I was going to see if y'all wanted to talk about another date, like maybe the 4th, which would be a Wednesday. And that's, I'm just leaving it out there.
 For what? For the City Council meeting that got rescheduled from Election Day to the 5th. The 5th is a parade. Suggestion, what about the 4th? Question mark. Thank you. I'd be agreeable to that. So again, if you do want to change the date, we'll need a motion to change the date until that time, the 4th. Is that right?
 And a second, and then it will need to pass by 2-3rd and Jordan because you are changing your agenda. Make a motion that we move the city council meeting to December 4th. Second. That would be at 530, I believe. Thank you. We have a second. We have a motion and a second to move the city council meeting to December 4th. Okay. Hertzberg. Yes. Yes.
 Stafford I'm looking at my calendar sorry yes Jones yes more yes Whitaker yes Verna yes lunch yes Turk yes mayor bring up one more thing and I don't know if it needs a vote it's just that at your last meeting you
 tabled to a date certain, December 5th, two items. Jackson, what was it? It was the urban tree, urban forestry plan and the...
 No, it was the appeal of the Nelson Hackett LOPs. So those were the two items that you tabled to a date certain of December 5th. So what do they need to do to move them to December 4th? I would think that a motion to amend the tabling to December 4th would be for those two items would be appropriate.
 i'll make a motion to amend the tailing from december 5th to december 4th second all right let's go around that i'm sorry who was the second was that council member church herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes four yes biedecker yes verna yes
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, now that concludes everything.