I'd like to call the order the special city council meeting of November 14th 2019 please please color over Scroggins here Here here here here here here here here here here here Hey mayor George here we can join me in the place for this
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, thank you all for being here. We, the first, we have a new business item, which is basically the City Council appointment of the City Clerk-Treasurer position.
 Do the term ending December 31st, 2020. Tonight here are the rules of the procedure. Applicants will draw numbers for interview positions. The applicant drawing position one will stay in the room to be interviewed while the other applicant step out of the room until their number is called. Everybody good with that and understand? Okay. All right, the meeting will not be live cast during the interview process.
 Three, no public comment shall be allowed during the interview selection process. And lastly, members of the audience will not be allowed to use cell phones or other electronic devices. And right now, please silence your phones. Kit, do you have anything you'd like to add? I do not. Those rules are set up to try to make sure that no one has any unfair advantages, hears any questions earlier or anything, so that's why we're doing that. And this is a selection process that we've been through.
 before and not exactly like this, but I think this has been set up to try to make it as fair as possible to all applicants. So at this time, Lisa, I suppose you will have them draw from the box to see what their positions are. And do it one at a time and you get to unwrap it and tell us what number you drew. Your name and number. My name is Kirsten Elliott and I have drawn number three. Two? Three. Three, I'm sorry. My name is Kara Paxton and I've drawn number four.
 William Chesser, first in the box. I wonder what yours is going to be. All right. Thank you all. So at this time, Mr. Chesser, would you stay in the room? Any other three applicants, please step outside. May I approach? Yes, you may. Is this the hot seat? This is the hot seat. That's fine.
 I will start off with the first question, then the council will ask you whatever questions they would like to ask. Does that sound good to everybody? Okay. All right. Mr. Chester, why are you interested in being appointed to be the city clerk for the city of Philly?
 I've been interested and a participant in public service for some time, both with the city and in my current job. I would consider myself a public service and sign up as a school teacher. As some of you may know, I ran for public office in the last election cycle for assessor for the county, Washington County. Had heard that Sondra may not be running in 2020.
 before she passed and had begun to consider running for this office before that time. Once I heard the news that she had passed tragically, I decided I would go ahead and apply to be appointed for the position. Okay, what other questions do we have from the council?
 Just just raise the head like we're doing in the text session. I think before we get going that the mayor and I talked about this. We thought that probably each council member, at least on their first time, would not ask more than two questions so that everybody gets to ask questions. So continuity, I think, will be important in this position. So if you were appointed, I guess you've answered that you do intend to run. What would your top three campaign issues be?
 And tell us about what your strategy is, what your values are. Sure. So let me say to start out, I have dealt with this office many times in the past. I thought Sandra did a great job. There might be things that I might do differently, but I would like none of my comments to be construed as a criticism on the way she did this job, which I thought was fantastic.
 So I think of this job as being really about communication liaison sort of between the public at large and really this body and the organizations that this body directs so Communication and transparency I think are paramount importance one of the things that
 One of the things I've been thinking about, I've had to deal with the city code, for example, many times. And I've applied to run for office several times. One question I have is about, I guess, accessibility in a way. The city code's only in English, as far as I can tell, unless someone could correct me if I'm wrong. But not all of our constituents speak English as their primary language. I know this as a public school teacher.
 One of the questions I have is why not, in addition to English, start going down the list of sort of the most commonly second and third spoken languages. My guess off the top of my head would be Spanish and then maybe Marshallese. Why not translate those documents both to make level of playing feel a little bit. When you're dealing with the city, when you're building something, when you're developing
 you need to be able to read the city code, right? So I think that would be a priority for me, changing, just changing some things about how we present the information. A second thing along with that would be, this is the point of contact for people who want to run for other office in the city and serve on boards. And so as such, we should be as welcoming as possible to all of the broad talents that we have in this city.
 So I would like to figure out a way to, again, the documents that we use for filing and the rules handed down by the state, generally in one language. Why not offer that in multiple languages? A lot of good work has been done, and I've worked with the city during the time that it's happened, moving from paper to electronic devices, and, for example, in looking at the
 At, more closely, the duties of this job, I was able to look at videos, for example, police and firemen's pension meetings, which I believe happened in this room, it looked like from the video. That's fantastic, and I think a lot of good work has been done. But I think a lot of people today, and I'm kind of moving on to part two, but this is sort of part of accessibility, but it's a way I would like to streamline the way electronic information is presented electronically.
 Lots and lots of members of the public now access this kind of information, not from a traditional desktop, but from their phone. This is a point of communication that I know my students use all the time, but lots of people, that's their primary thing. The CitySite is fantastic for a desktop kind of site, but I think there are some updates we could do in terms of presentation speed.
 making videos and documents load more quickly. So I think there are some updates we could do from that standpoint. The third thing is really just about transparency of budgetary process. I just believe that sunshine is the best disinfectant at all times. And I would like to
 Zane Chennault, actually I'm stealing this from him because I ran with him, but he talked about making sure the county budgets were very, very accessible at all times to the public so the public knows exactly where their dollars are being spent. I spent a lot of times time asking my students, you know, who's the government of this country? And they'll say, oh, this senator or that president. And I'll say, no, it's you. You're the government of this country.
 The people that you're naming are simply people who work for you, and those people are responsible for giving all that information to the public. So I would like to make that as obvious and accessible to the public as it is possible to do, because it's their money and their information, and we're merely the custodians of that information. Okay. What other questions do we have?
 William, you've talked a lot about, you know, maybe some changes we might make to our process. One of the things, and I have been on your application, of course, but for our audience, tell me just a little bit about your familiarity with the process.
 computers because I'm thinking it's pretty much more than my familiarity with talking about this but tell me a little bit about some of the programs that you are familiar with and how you use them and how you may have used them in your existing job sure as what you see you might use them as clerk I'll start with my existing job I transition I'm an educator I've been an educator for 10 years and over the past few years I've been transitioning to
 I guess technically we would call it an alternative learning environment, but in my case it's virtual school. Meaning that content is delivered via computer to students who are not required to come into class, but may. We have what's called a blended environment. So students do come in and ask me questions and I teach them face-to-face, one-on-one, but they also deal with content that we provide via the web.
 I started at School of Innovation when they started several years ago. And because, as you sort of pointed out, I have a background, I am not a professional IT person. That is not my main focus of any job that I've had. However, it is a heavy, heavy hobby, at least I'll say.
 I've built all the computers I've used save one. I tend to get tapped to be the person in a department in schools that's the first guy they call when they have a computer tech problem. So because of that,
 When School of Innovation also delivered its content electronically, now the students were always in the room with us, but they were still one-to-one ratio devices, and that content was being delivered by what's called a learning management system. I was the guy who ran back into that whole thing, only because I, you know, they say never volunteer, but I am not really good at not volunteering. So I said, yeah, I can probably do that. So I would liaise with...
 The people who provided that content and I usually administrated the back end, meaning fix problems, make sure users' passwords can be reset, etc., etc. I also taught as a gateway software instructor. If you remember gateway country stores back at the turn of the century, I taught people from 12 to 80, usually actually on the upper end of that range, how to use their computer for the first time.
 I would be approaching this, again, a lot of really good work has been done. Anything can be improved. I am not the person who writes the database. What I tell my students is this, I know how a piano works. I know how the piano is built. I know quite a bit about the piano. I don't necessarily play the piano every day.
 Okay, but I would expect in this position not to be the person building the database, but the person directing that to happen. And so I think what you want is a person who is able to interface with multiple, well, multiple kinds of people to get that data out there.
 please let me know too if i'm too verbose in my answers i have a tendency to over explain i apologize it comes with the bark of the trade of a teacher i guess thank you tracy i think slawn had one um i think i'm gonna actually ask both my questions now um the first one is what experience do you have with foia
 And the second one is, if we were to put our ordinances in two different languages, what happens when there's interpretations that are different in each language? That's a fantastic question. Do you have a preference on which one I answer first? No. Okay. Freedom of Information Act, I have experience only as a member of public who has observed it happening.
 As a Fayetteville public school employee, I have several friends who are employees who were the recipients of FOIA requests after, oh, let's say some difficulties we had with an administrator a couple of years ago. So I'm aware of the receiving end and I've talked to people about the receiving end. Of course, I understand what FOIA is.
 I could not tell you legal minutia about it. However, I know enough know who to ask if there were a four year request and where to find that person. In my mind, again, it should be our duty to provide the public with
 reasonable requests for information to the full extent that we're capable of i understand that again i would ask our attorney for more advice on this but i understand that not all information is always provided but i would depend on legal counsel for for minutia of that sort second question oh
 I was actually thinking about this exact question. I was thinking about how would the mechanics of the translation work, right? I imagine we would have to, ideally, we would hire a very bilingual attorney, probably, to translate the code. That would be my guess. Who could talk with people from, for example, city council's office, or city attorney's office, about,
 what their translation was and how best to make the language technically correct. This is a huge important part in legal language. We need to be very exact and precise in our language. This is the thing I think about as a philosopher all the time. It's very difficult. People don't realize how fine you need to get on definitional things. I think in the end what we would have to do
 but again i would consult our city attorney about this is offer the secondary languages as a tool with a disclaimer that in the event there was a misunderstanding that the primary original language document would control that would be my guess
 Again, I'm not an attorney, but I was thinking about that very question and that's how I would probably attempt to solve it I don't think that that Well, I think that's a good concern. I don't think it's enough to scare us off from From providing that service to our citizenry. Thank you, Teresa. And then Barb.
 Hi, William. So as you know, you're coming into this and into an office that already has a very tight knit and well oil machine, good working relationships with everybody, almost like a family. And so I'm wondering how you would approach your management style. What kind of management style do you have?
 How would you provide that continuity or less disruption in a kind of a challenging situation with Sandra's loss? Absolutely. Something I've done a lot now. The best boss I ever had and ever really expect to have is a guy named Rear Admiral Jack Buffington.
 He was the head of naval engineering worldwide. Seven billion dollar a year budget. I did not work for him when he was in that capacity. He retired and he came to the University of Arkansas and I worked for him at the Mack Blackwell Transportation Center. The thing that made him the best boss, he was a very intelligent person obviously, and we had a million dollar a year budget and he kind of joked, you know, like, man, in my old job, a million dollars would fall off the table and you wouldn't even notice.
 So he was very relaxed, which was great. But what Jack knew that I've tried to always take with me is, do you know who Deming was by any chance? Or have you ever heard of the Toyota management system by any chance? It was actually invented by a guy named Deming, and Jack loved Deming. And what it says is that, and I firmly believe this, what it says is that
 Really your most valuable resource in doing any kind of a job are the people who do that job every day The from the Toyota for those of you may not know this Toyota uses a management system in which The people working on the line are able to communicate with the engineers and the people running the plant to say hey I think this would be more efficient if and to not do that is
 To not understand that the people on that line are not merely cogs in a machine, but are thinking, intelligent people who probably know the job better than you who designed it will ever know it, is a huge misuse of resources and human capital. That's also just rude. So I'm a little bit of an unusual teacher in that, or I have found that I think I kind of am, in that...
 My students, I don't have the traditional teacher-student relationship in which I am the, I profess and you hear. What I want for my students is for them to ask me hard questions and put me in, and I ask them questions back. It's kind of Socratic. And to have a relationship of mutual respect, and I don't think that a boss...
 can be a good boss, you know, almost more of a first among equals kind of position. That's what Jack did. Jack understood that his ability to lead depended wholly upon the people whom he was leading. I always thought he was like the opposite of Jack.
 Oh, now I can't think of it. The famous, the prince. He was like the opposite of Machiavellian. Machiavelli says, you know, it's better to be feared than loved. And Jack showed, and I believe, that that is not the case. It is better to have your employees love you and want to work with you, not love you, but enjoy working for you, than to fear you. Leading by fear is a terrible idea. The last thing I'll say is this.
 I, because of that, what I just said, I know who knows what's going on in that office. And it ain't me. It's the ladies who are there now. Part of being a good teacher is being a good student. So the very first thing I would do is say, I need you to teach me how to do this job because you know how to do this job. And after we get through that part,
 Then if I see something I think might be an improvement, that's when I'll ask you if you think it would be a good. Does that answer that? Yes, thank you. How do you see your relationship with city council members collectively and individually? This is an interesting question. This job technically works for the people, right? Because it's a directly elected position.
 But the truth is, and I said this early on, it's really kind of a liaison, I feel like, between this body and the public at large. And I think that it's important for the person that holds this position to realize that. That really, a big part of the job is communication between those two bodies, right? This body and the public. And so, in spite of the fact that
 it's elected by the people, I really think that it's a, I won't say the clerk treasurer works for this body, but they work with this body and on behalf of this body. Right? So I think the job is to keep and maintain records in a way that you need to be kept and maintained, but also in a way that the public who are our employers are able to access and see them. So,
 So every time I went into that office to fill something out, to run for office, to find something out, I felt like that office did a really good job of making sure that I knew they were there to help, to serve me, to help me. It's a public servant position. And this body is not only...
 well, you're public servants, but you're the leadership of the community, but you're also the public. So in just the same way that this job serves the public, I think it should also serve this body. Does that answer that question? One of the questions we have. Okay. William, I really appreciate that you have some ambitions for the position that are...
 a little bit greater than just the list of job descriptions of job duties. I'm curious though about those fundamentals and I want you to tell us about your relationship with organization and your strategies for keeping your tasks current, your information accessible and not falling behind.
 Yeah, the fundamentals of the job, according to the state, are essentially record keeping and budget. Right? I mean, that's how I read part of the statute I was reading about creation of this job. The very first thing I would do is, I think that, as I pointed out earlier, there is actually already a fairly good system in place.
 So in part, I'm not going to say if it ain't broke, don't fix it exactly, but it ain't really broke right now, right? Again, as I said at the outset, I don't have any criticisms for how the clerk's office was being run already. I would have never run against Sondra. That doesn't mean that improvements can't be made, right? So in much the same way as I answered...
 Do we say councilman, councilwoman? What do you prefer? Councilmember. Councilmember Turk. Thank you. The very first thing I would do is ask the people who are experienced in running the day-to-day operations of this office how I can make sure to help them keep that happening. Back to my piano question of earlier.
 I am absolutely certain there are, in fact I read about some of them, that there are software systems in this office that I will not be personally familiar with. I haven't played that particular, maybe it's a harpsichord in this example, right? It's kind of like piano but not exactly. So the very first thing I would want to do is be taught. How do I make, how do I play this instrument? How do I translate what I know already generally to specifically play this instrument?
 After that point, it's a question of looking at efficiencies and other potential instruments that we might play, right? So from an organizational standpoint, one thing I would want to see is there's a basic rule in databases that you don't ever put a piece of information in more than one place if you can help it. That way, if that information has to be changed, it only has to be changed in one location and you don't have any
 Two pieces of data that now claim to be the correct piece of data, but they're in disagreement with one another. That's kind of a higher level thing. Again, I don't play the piano every day. I just understand how the piano is played. So I would not want to go and lift the hood and start taking parts off immediately. I would just want to learn how this machine works and make sure I'm taught by the people who know how it works to use it.
 And in this case, I'm just using the general management skills I've developed over many, many years of work, writing spreadsheets, writing databases, figuring out workflow problems
 Just to learn that process does that does that answer that? It's an important answer, but not the one I was hoping for I am curious if you are a personally organized person Do you remember birthdays in advance or do you wait till the last minute? do you keep a to-do list and you cross it off or do things fall through the cracks and
 To-do list is what I won't say that birthdays have never fallen through the cracks However birthdays to me are in a slightly different category than work related items, so When I'm it's when I'm working with school related functions my students have to know that When they turn something in it's not going to be lost right. I mean this is a really important thing and
 So organizing, so this has changed for me over the years. It used to be done with paper. When I had my first job, I actually just bought this giant filing cabinet thing at a university auction that I could work with my students to keep all their work collected in, so it's all in one place. And I typically tried to not let them take it home. There's a long story with students. They tend to lose stuff a lot. I tried to make sure
 Helping them stay organized was like an important part of making sure I could stay organized. This has changed now because with electronic records, it's actually much easier to have them turn things in in such a way that they can't be lost. Does that make sense? So what I do is teach them some tricks. So I figured out in teaching this LMS that they needed to be taught how to turn things in the right way.
 This isn't answering directly about me, but I think it's answering about my approach to this problem. So I learned that I need, I made a lesson that was like, listen, this is what you do when you turn into an assignment to me. What was happening was, this is just going to be a short story. They would turn in the answers to questions on a worksheet without the questions and without numbers so that,
 There was no way for me to know what answer went with what question, and in some cases if they skipped one, it might be obvious to me that maybe they had, but I couldn't make that assumption. So I wrote a protocol which said, you copy the worksheet, you paste it into a document, you then answer in the following way. I need you to change the color of the font of your answer, or the two italics or something, so that I can really tell what is yours.
 students don't progress past that assignment with me this is a little weird for me because as a brick-and-mortar teacher I was not this way but I found in the electronic world I have to be they don't progress past that lesson until they can do it perfectly and if they then don't do it in the future I make them go back and redo that one to remind them and the reason is for me to be able to understand what they're trying to answer it has to be
 you know, I hate to be a properly format kind of guy, but in some cases we just have to do it that way. So, that's how I approach that kind of thing. It's much,
 It's much easier, I don't have my phone in my pocket because we couldn't have electronics, but Adam Savage calls his phone his third globe. And for me, it's kind of that. I mean, like, I put everything in there now. I put this meeting in my phone immediately when it was given to me, and then I updated a reminder for myself every 30 minutes just to make sure I would leave at 4.30 because the city attorney was very clear about being here on time. So...
 While it's possible that I have forgotten birthdays in the past, that's only because I actually don't personally put a huge amount of importance on birthdays, much to the chagrin of my wife, I'm sure. But when it's work, it's a very different category for me. Does that answer it? Yes, it does. Thank you. Thank you. What other questions do we have? Kyle, do you have any questions? Sonia? Yeah.
 So in this capacity, there's an opportunity that you could potentially change out your working team. Do you have an idea that you want to do that or would you like to maintain the team? What are your thoughts there?
 My initial thought is that as well as things that I've observed have worked, I don't see any reason why I would want to do that. The real answer is I don't have enough data to give you that answer. I've worked from the customer side of the table with this office and been very happy. I tend to lean toward when the customer is very happy, you don't mess with that.
 I certainly wouldn't anticipate making changes before an election for a number of reasons. One is, I don't think I could know enough about the office unless, I mean, it's possible, I guess I could, but I would want a good amount of time for them to teach me, first of all, but further education.
 As a custodian of a trust appointed by this body as opposed to elected by the citizenry, I wouldn't really feel like it was my place to make that kind of change. I feel like that's the kind of change that one only makes after actually having been elected into such a position. But my immediate answer would be I would only make changes as attrition required, and not, I don't see any reason that I would at this, that hadn't even occurred to me, I guess is my real answer.
 Okay, Kyle, do you have anything? Yeah, as the other person that's familiar with your shoes here, I got to stand up and ask to be appointed to this position too. I appreciate your coming to this. I got to keep my day job.
 and you're here applying for an appointment to a full-time job and I'm just curious about your motivation and preparedness and priorities to make a full-time career switch that could potentially only last 13 months. Sure. I've had this before, right? Now, in the last one I ran for, it would have been a four-year appointment, so that makes things a little bit different. First of all, I'll say candidly that I'm fairly confident
 Given that I've run for office before, I'm very confident in my ability to run for office again. However, that's a perfectly fair point. It may only last 13 months. When I ran for office the first time, the year prior, I let everybody in my organization know, especially since it's a different public service sector job, hey, are there any conflicts with this? And it's extra...
 Also, especially because I was going for public school to the person who funds the public schools, right? It's a little weird. There could be a perceived conflict of interest. So I cleared those hurdles first. There's the secondary problem of, hey, I sign a contract and my contract says I will be here from X to Y. And this is happening in between X and Y. So I didn't want to spring that on anybody. So I've been through those items before.
 In this case, and I know, I hope that this is answering. Okay. The very first thing I did is I don't like to burn bridges. So I was actually sick early in the week. So I didn't get to tell my boss on Monday. I think, I believe I submitted my application on Sunday. But immediately at my first opportunity, I just went into my boss's office and I said, so I've done this thing.
 And she obviously watched my last campaign closely and was a supporter. I'm not going to say whether she supported voted for me, but she supported the idea of me running. She was supportive in this case, too. She said, I totally understand. The last time I ran, one of the things I did was put into line three different people whom I thought could take over for me in my capacity. Again...
 I consider myself a public servant now. I'm paid by the public. I have a duty to the public and to my students, especially, who, in a way, are more important to me, because they don't even have the right to vote yet. So I've got to take care of them. So I've already lined up people to take over for me. That would probably start at semester. But given our time frame here, and luckily, given the fact that my job is virtual,
 there is the ability for me to have a kind of really hard month of December where my evenings are talking to some substitute teacher and helping them grade and figure out some things so I can cover for them. That's part of my duty as a public servant, but it actually is also kind of enlightened self-interest because I don't burn a bridge with an employer who I may need to go ask for a job again in the future. There are other opportunities.
 I think that even if this job ends in, I guess it would be January of 21, one, for a public teacher, that's actually a fairly good time because there are people that transition at that time. And so if I haven't burned a bridge and I do have the experience I have, I might be able to go ahead and get a new job. If not, my wife's gainfully employed. I'm fairly sure that by summer...
 because of the next cycle of teaching, I could go back to public school teaching, which I do love. Okay. That's the first round of questions for today. It's the follow-up questions from the council. Mr. Chester. All right. All right, I'll go get the next applicant. Thank you very much for the opportunity. I appreciate it.
 When he throws his jacket down, you better watch out.
 Hi, welcome. Welcome, Paul. I want to start off by saying thank you for coming in and applying. And I have the first question, which will be, why are you interested in being appointed to be the city clerk for the city of Federal? We'll start with that one. Okay. I've lived here for about five years, a little over five years.
 as many of you know i've become more and more involved whether it's the fable public library board of trustees or digital inclusion task force but mayor jordan unfortunately appointed me to um and so i've kind of got more and more involved and then when i was on the digital inclusion task force i really got to see how technology impacts access to to the city whether it be no agendas doing what's going on in the city paying bills
 And that access is really important and kind of how the clerk's role, it kind of came into focus how the clerk's role could help push that forward through access, transparency, and participation in city government. I've been an advocate for transparency for a long time and in government I think that that's one of the very important roles of the city clerk treasurer. So that's really what attracted me to the position.
 Okay, what questions do we have? So Continuity, I think it's gonna be very important in this position and you will have to run for election So in thinking about running a campaign What would your top three issues be that you would run on? In terms of how you convey how you want to serve the public question, um, I think really like I said the access to
 to information. I've really gotten good at navigating a website and navigating
 the city and kind of understanding how city government works and who to talk to about certain things and I've been fortunate to be able to work with with a few of you and with the administration to do a few things Regarding the panhandling ordinance that came up and our little free libraries and things like that. So I think I can really help people Interface with the city better as far as transparency I think they've done a really good job of
 so far, but I did learn looking into it, the city owns some software that we could implement that I think would take it forward. It's part of the LaserFish contract. It's already paid for. It wouldn't cost anything else. It's called JustFoya. I'd like to look at using that to help facilitate FOI requests and make that less of a burden on the city, but also more available to citizens. And then finding ways to enhance participation in government.
 um one of those ways would be i know some boards and committees commissions have a hard time finding people especially professional there's some that require veterinary licensed veterinarian some that require accountants and other professional positions it's really hard to find so looking at ways to really make sure that we have as many people on the right in the right positions to apply for uh boards and commissions because i think that's a really important thing for the city it's one thing that i think
 Sets us apart from some of the other cities around us Not naming names, but some don't really have for two missions some do they're very limited And the amount of input that the City Council and the city takes from that I think is really what sets us apart Those would be my three main things to campaign on Just real quick one of the reasons the
 Another thing I would kind of take on with my IT experience and my experience implementing software, I think it would also help to have a champion for technology innovation in the city clerk's office. Okay, what other questions do we have? Rob, how do you see your relationship individually and collectively with the city council?
 Um, well, I have worked, like I said, with some people, individuals on some things. So and I worked on a little free libraries, make sure they weren't removed from the parks. Worked a little bit with Council Member Petty on the panhandling ordinance. But my role as city clerk would be different than that as a constituent. My role wouldn't, a city clerk wouldn't be to send you emails about what I think about an ordinance. My role would be to be impartial, would be to support you.
 would be to fulfill my constitutional role but also just to to really you know be a support role for you and be here to make sure that i help i know communications can be difficult on on a board i'm on the uh fable public library board of trustees and we can't you know there's open meetings laws and can help facilitate communications in a transparent manner
 Okay, Theresa. Thank you. So as you know, you would be coming into a really tight-knit group of professionals that have been working together a long time. How would you be able to assume that role, come in, and then how do you characterize your leadership or management style?
 Well, first of all, I would listen. I would want to bring, you know, speak to all of them, have an open door policy, everyone in the staff and throughout the administration and everyone that works in the city and really listen. One of the things that attracted me back when we anticipated the clerk retiring, one of the things that attracted me is that this isn't, the clerk's office is fantastic by all accounts I've heard.
 She did a wonderful job. Everyone in the clerk's office does a wonderful job. Everyone's doing well. So this isn't where we're going to have to have a reformer and go in and change things. We need someone who can listen, don't break what's, sorry, don't fix what's not broken, and then just kind of help move forward as a team. But I do have experience because I've been on some boards with,
 Susan and Keith and central administration, so I think that would help also relations between the clerk's department and the rest of the city. Okay Okay, anyone else? Slump? Oh what experience do you have with FOIA? I have a
 submitted FOIA requests to the city. That's that's one thing where I think that I've also learned where you don't have to submit FOIA questions. You can just ask for something. That's one thing that would be wonderful to make sure people understand. You can just ask questions. I really do think that my role as an constituent helps, you know, gain perspective of what it's like to be on the other side of the desk and what people are looking for.
 I've been FOIAed as a board member of the library board of trustees. I'm familiar with the law. We recently had the attorney of the library gave us another primer on the law and my dad was a is a reporter, a newspaper editor, so I heard his side of FOIA my whole life. What are the questions from the council?
 Tell me about your approach to staying organized, personally and professionally. Great question. I take a lot of notes. I have a lot of notes here on my computer as well. But that's one challenge that I have in my professional career is lots of projects. We use different software wherever I work, but I use a lot of software to help with organization. I take a lot of notes.
 That's really all I can really think of. But if I don't write it down, I'm probably going to lose it. So I'm really good about keeping the calendar. Let's go ahead.
 Okay. Sonia, I believe you had your hand. So in the event that you were chosen for the position, do you intend to maintain the team that you have there because you have the capacity potentially to change, switch out? Do you have any kind of ideas of wanting to keep the team that's currently in place, replace people? I would have no plans at all to change the team at all. Certainly, you know, wouldn't.
 wouldn't make any promises, but that's the furthest thing I think from my mind right now. Again, I've worked, I've put in, I've communicated with the staff there. It's always been great. I can't see any reason where I would even fathom a personal change. Good. Kyle? So, I can relate to the position you're sitting in having
 I had to come up and ask to be appointed to a position before. I was there. I think you were. The difference for me was that I got to keep my day job. You're looking at the prospect of a full-time career shift for something that could potentially only last for 13 months. I'd like to hear a little bit about your preparedness and motivation to take on a job with a horizon like that.
 Well, a few years ago, I worked for the state and I worked for the state in health care, which you can't get more solid than working in health care. I worked for the state and I was laid off. And during that period, I kind of, you know, I wasn't unemployed for very long. And I really thought about, you know, any job is temporary. The idea of chasing the staple doesn't always get you what you want out of your life and out of your career. And so this is a frightening prospect for me.
 But exciting and it really is because you know, it's cliche and I'm sure we're all gonna say this in some form But I really love Fayetteville and I like being involved in city government and I will be a lot of the meetings whether or not I'm appointed I've been in the City Council chambers at 11 o'clock at night just because I I
 It's an exciting change. Really, there are some parallels, I think, between. They do sound very different. I'm IT at a hospital, and the city clerk would be a different position. But it's still data, helping people find information, records and retention, policies. Those are things that I do. Writing policies, procedures, budgets, I do those anyway or have done those anyway. So the widgets are different, but I think the process can be very similar. Thank you.
 anybody else leave anybody out there if i get to ask the question one or two any follow-up questions i have another one sure uh rob you've been one of the most active and i think one of the most effective members of the public in terms of uh answering um general questions in the public and uh doing so in public not just off to the side of conversations that are happening
 And one of the things that I have noticed is that you do a very good job of providing the facts, even as you might mix your opinion in with the facts from time to time. I'm curious what you're thinking about the advocacy that you've engaged in as a private citizen and how effective you've been.
 you think you might do things the same or differently or not at all with respect to your advocacy if you get the appointment. First of all, thank you. I appreciate that. As an elected official, I will have a little bit different stance than a private citizen as far as I'm going to make sure I'm impartial towards the City Council.
 Um, but other than that, I mean, the, the job of the city clerk is to record key and, and communicate, um, there's, there's still room for me to have my own opinions as we all do, there's still room for me to advocate, um, for the things that are close to my heart, which for the most part is, um, people experiencing poverty and homelessness and, uh, equality. And, um, you know, while I won't be speaking in front of the podium, I'll still advocate for those things. Um, but also trust.
 The citizens of Fayetteville, I think, if they're informed, if they have the right access they need to information, if they have to watch meetings, read minutes, know things are going on, and if we're transparent, I think a lot of folks will do the talking that I would otherwise have done. So I think I can still make a positive impression there just by opening the door for other people. Also city clerk, I'm not going to pretend it's president or mayor.
 I would hope that my elevated public presence could actually help champion some causes that aren't related to any matters before the City Council, but for things I mentioned earlier. If we can find some ways to house more people, I'll be glad to participate in that. Hopefully, people will recognize my name and show up. Okay. Anything else? I have a real quick question here.
 We talked about, you know, you've told us about your management style and your organizational, how your dedication to organization and everything, but in your in your jobs, what, how many people have you managed?
 And how close, you know, how closely was that role associated with managing a larger group of people? Did you have one person that you worked with or did you oversee five or six and how did you handle that? The most I have managed at one time is two. Okay. I will say that they were very close proximity as in the same cubicle as me or in the same office.
 That presented some challenges, but also some opportunities. I'm kind of, just in general, I can be nerdy about things. I really research things and dig in. I've had some issues with some employees' performance, and that's where I really got into learning how to manage that and manage expectations. And the number one thing I learned in managing, and the number one thing I think every manager should know, is that you have to have clear expectations.
 No one should ever be surprised if they go into a performance review and hear something negative. That should never happen. No one should ever be surprised when you're fired. It should always be out and open, or not open, but it should always be presented to the person and they should know where they stand at any time. One of the worst things is employees not know where you stand with your supervisor.
 So I've done a lot of interviewing and hiring. I've been involved with interviewing pretty much everywhere I've worked, even if I wasn't the department manager. I worked at two jobs with one boss that really liked to have me handle a lot of the interviewing and hiring with him because he didn't like it. But that gave me the opportunity to really get used to that and learn some tips and tricks. Okay. Anything else?
 Thank you, Mr. Quart. Thank you. Thank you. I will get the next candidate and I am going to turn this over to Blake because I'm taking my wife to the Walton Arts Center to maintain my marriage. And so keep having fun out here.
 How are you? I'm good. How are you? Good. Nice to see you. I'm waiting for a council member to return before we start asking questions. Okay, let's open it up. I will start with the first question for you. Why are you interested in being appointed to be the city clerk for the city of Bethel?
 Sure. So I'm currently serving as the director of Planned Committee for the Center for Election Science. It's a nonprofit that focuses specifically on voting reform. And we specifically work with municipalities when citizens are really excited about this particular voting reform to pass ballot initiatives so that they can bring fairer, more representative elections to their communities. So during that process, despite the fact that I work on the fundraising side,
 I've seen a lot of the effort that goes into making sure that these come to fruition, right? It's a difficult process for citizens to gather signatures and then to get those verified and then get the ballot on the, get the initiative on the ballot and make sure that it meets all the legal requirements there. And so I find that to be a really interesting opportunity to expand upon the background that I already have.
 And I also think that it's really important to have someone who has an attention to detail, meticulous record keeping, and who wants to serve in this position for a really long time.
 And that would be my intention if I was appointed. Thank you. Sarah? So, close nudity is very important in this. So, you know, you will have to run for election. What would your top three campaign issues be in terms of how would you, what do you want to communicate to the public of how you will run this office?
 Yeah, so I think, you know, first and foremost, again, elections are such an important part of this. And so I think, again, making sure that elections are fair and representative and that we maintain integrity over our elections. I think that would be the first thing I would want to communicate to voters. The second thing is that in my role, I work so much with our constituents, our donors. And so these are people that have entrusted their money to me.
 to do something that they really believe in. I feel that there is some crossover there with the city clerk. You have entrusted, as citizens, your tax dollars to the city clerk to be able to fulfill this role. So I would want them to know that I always have an open door and I'm always very responsive. I try in my role
 to respond to all donor inquiries within 48 hours. I will be the first to admit that sometimes that means I'm doing it when I'm on vacation even. And maybe that's not the healthiest work-life balance sometimes, but I believe that we deserve that kind of service.
 The third thing that I would say is that I think that this role really requires attention to detail and meticulous record keeping. I use lots of systems and I'm always looking for better ones to make sure that I do my work well. One system that I started using in my current role is called Monday.com. It's a project management workflow system. And so I automate my calendar reminders and I know exactly what I'm working on and what's up in the process I'm at as well as where my team members are at.
 Because we're a totally virtual nonprofit, so I don't have the pleasure of being able to go knock on their door and ask them how the project is going. One other question, Steve, you had. Mark. In this job, of course, you interact with the city council a lot. How do you feel or how do you envision your relationship individually with city council members and collectively with the city council as a whole? Thanks for that question.
 So, again, I find there's a lot of crossover here in the role that I currently have. I work with an eight-member board of directors, and we're continually trying to expand that. And so I play a role, in addition to the rest of my team, in recruiting those board members and evaluating them and making sure they're a good fit. So that's not quite what we're looking at for a city council, but...
 The point there being that I have to work very closely with those individuals. I work with our board members to maintain really tight-knit relationships with major donors. And so I think in terms of helping individual council members, I'm always there to try to help you navigate a sticky issue with a constituent or if there's a particular issue that you're not well-versed in.
 I have worked in conservation, specifically with birds of prey. I have worked on early childhood literacy programs, and I now work in the very nerdy space of voting method reform. So I like to consider myself someone who can dive into just about anything and figure out what's going on and be able to translate that well to constituents. The last thing I would say there is just in terms of relating to the group as a whole,
 I frequently have to present to our board members. I provide quarterly fundraising reports, always trying to make sure that they have the information they need to create budgets and to create the strategic vision for the organization to drive our mission forward. And it takes all kinds of people to run a nonprofit. So we're a nonpartisan nonprofit. We have people that are very liberal, very conservative, and I have to work with all of them and provide them with quality service. Hey, Tracee.
 So as you probably know, many of the staff in the city clerk's office, they've worked together for a long time. And so if you were selected, you would be going into this really tight-knit, highly greased machine, mostly a family. And so could you describe how you would integrate into that already existing workforce and kind of what your management or leadership style is?
 that's a great question um so i again i mentioned that i work in a totally virtual role right now and so i think that um really drives you to try to find a way to create a tight-knit family in in other ways um and so we use google hangouts really frequently in my role but i would say in translating that to the the staff here um you know i like to be in communication with people um
 frequently, I don't like to just keep that on a work-related basis. Again, it's even harder in a virtual organization. I take a genuine interest in the people
 that I work with and their families and their goals and in supporting them in whatever they're doing. So one example that I'll share here is that my colleague who is our director of operations has been asked to do a lot of communications work. I have a degree in mass communication. So I was able to teach her how to write a press release and I've seen her really grow in that
 um a skill set in that communication skill set as we work together um and it's a little bit tricky because we're on the exact same peer level it's not even a supervisory thing um and so i have to balance my ability to teach with not hurting someone's feelings and so i would say in terms of working with the staff um you know would be looking to help them learn new skills if i can um and also looking to them to help me learn new skills as well i like feedback um
 We do a very open evaluation process where I work right now, and so that's something that I'm not sure how it works within the department, but I would love to see some open evaluation where those that are being managed are able to provide really candid feedback and let me know where my weaknesses are. What experiences do you have with FOIA?
 So I have a degree in mass communication and so that's something that they kind of badger us with when we're going through that degree is the Freedom of Information Act. And that's because journalists really need to know how to navigate that. So I will say that although I've never been a public servant who has been being asked
 to fulfill those requests. I have gone to public servants and asked for those documents. So I'm familiar with the fact that there are very few public records that are not under that purview. You don't want to be giving out people's social security numbers, but beyond that, employee records are often open for inspection unless there's some particular caveat there.
 and making sure that they're taken care of in a timely manner. Again, I believe firmly in transparency and in trying to give people what they are promised through the role of this office, through their tax dollars. And so respond to those inquiries as quickly as I can and make sure that we're upholding the law. Okay. Anybody, any other questions? Sure. In your application,
 It comes across to me that you have a passion for cities and what city governments do. I'm curious to hear you talk a little bit more about that and where it comes from.
 Yeah, so I grew up in Sherwood, Arkansas, so down in central Arkansas. And my father works in the disaster restoration industry. And so he is often working with school districts or with cities when, let's say, a tornado comes through, there's a flood, there's mold damage, whatever. And so he's had the privilege of meeting a lot of these individuals, mayors, clerks, what have you.
 And I've always been politically interested, and so I remember when I was a child and I was saying, I want to do something. I want to be involved. And my dad said, well, I said, maybe a mayor. But mayors, they touch people's lives so intimately. If you're a good mayor, you answer the phone. And you go make sure that the pothole gets filled or that the concern is addressed as quickly as possible.
 And so I think, you know, when I think about city government, it's so easy for us to get attached to national politics and think that that really impacts our lives. What really impacts our day-to-day lives is what city government does. You know, what are my tax dollars being used for? Are we developing in a way that encourages economic opportunity and growth while also making sure we preserve our natural resources? We don't engage in too much sprawl.
 These are all really critical issues and city government plays such a role in that. And I would say now, you know, it's really nice to be back in Arkansas. I had a little hiatus where I was in Utah. And I feel like now that I'm home, I have an opportunity to really be involved in city government. And that's a lot of what sparked this application was, you know, working on these big national issues was fun.
 But I wanted to be involved in the place that I now call home. Thank you. John. So I appreciate you coming and doing this because it's, I guess it's getting further back now, but it doesn't feel like it's been that long since I was applying to be appointed to this spot up here. So the difference for me was that I got to keep my day job and do this. But you'd be looking at a full-time switch and one that could potentially only last 13 months before having to run again and then...
 it's anybody's guess. So just hoping that you could tell us a little bit about your motivation to get into something with that kind of horizon and your preparedness to deal with transition. Sure. Well, one thing that I'm really glad I have in my skill set is fundraising. Running a campaign requires money, and that's something that I would be able to do. And I think the other component there is that
 I wouldn't have wanted to run against our sitting city clerk, not because of the challenge, but because, again, I think that continuity is important. And I think if you are faithfully executing that office.
 then it's important to have that institutional memory. And so if appointed, I would obviously want to run to keep that continuity. And I think that my work speaks for itself. I've been put in a lot of situations where I didn't necessarily know everything on day one, but I'm a quick learner. And again, I'm willing to take feedback and admit when I'm wrong and keep learning. And so I firmly believe that my work would speak for itself and the citizens of Fayetteville would have full faith to reelect me. And that would be my intention.
 What other questions do we have? In this role, if chosen, you would have the opportunity or capability to switch out your team as elected official. Do you plan to or have any ideas to maintain the team or have a different team?
 I have seen this go horrendously when people have been in this role, so thank you for asking that. Yeah, I would have not even the slightest inclination to go cleaning house or changing out people that are in their roles. You know, again, I believe that it's important to do evaluations and for those to be structured. I think that there are ways to make sure that they're fair and that we assess role performance and make sure that people are doing their jobs.
 to the best of their abilities and that they're getting an opportunity to improve if they're not. I can't imagine that I would have that need. It sounds like it's a very tight-knit organization, as you all said, and people have been in their roles for quite a long time, so they're probably doing a pretty good job. Any other questions? Thank you very much. Thank you all so much for your time. Leave her up there.
 thank you so much good evening everybody good evening to you first thank you for applying and part of this process um i'm going to offer the first question tonight which is why are you interested in being appointed to be the city clerk for the city of fednick
 Thank you so much for calling me and offering me this opportunity to apply for this position. So the reason why I'm here is this is actually a position that I've been working towards for the last 20 years. So my love of managing data started pretty early. So I actually joined the military when I was 18, and I served my time. And once I went to college, management information systems called to me.
 So I have a lot of background in database. I also have a lot of background when it comes to reading and implementing government policies. Okay, let's open it up to the city council.
 So continuity will be very important, so you'll be expected to hopefully run for re-election. If you did so, what would your top three campaign issues be and what are the top three priorities you want to communicate? So always professionalism. I really strive to always create a professional environment. I really love being able to provide customer service to the public.
 I've been doing that for almost 20 years now. When I went to school and when I went through college, I actually worked in the financial aid department where I answered questions daily from my peers and also from people who had a lot more experience than I did. In addition to that, working at the Social Security Administration and the Fayetteville Housing Authority, I was required daily to provide information to the public and also our community partners. So customer service would be my second one.
 My third one would be retention of data. So I would want to make sure that the information in the clerk's office would be maintained accordingly and also to make sure that all of the information is provided to the departments that request it in addition to acting accordingly with Freedom of Information Act requests. Okay. What other questions do we have, Mark? In this role, you interact.
 with city council members and I'm wondering how you envision your relationship with City Council as individuals as well as collectively. Thank you so much for that question. So I feel very fortunate that since I've been to the Fayetteville area that I've been able to gain experience in
 Talking with different people in the government facilities. In addition to that, I applied to be on the public facilities board earlier this year and get to communicate with a lot of you that are here at the table. In addition to that, I also took place or took part in the strategic plan when a lot of the council members came as well.
 So I feel that the city clerk works hand in hand with the council. In addition, that provides services through the city. So I envision that to be a professional and good working relationship where I would always encourage a positive environment. In addition, that always keep lines open and work broad information greatly back and forth. What other questions, Sarah? Thanks for coming in tonight. Thank you.
 So one of your roles as clerk is in its multifaceted role. It's a supervisory role, and you have to manage a department, and you have to be in charge of discipline and hiring and firing and that sort of thing. So tell us a little bit about how you have managed people in the past, how many people you might have managed, and how you think you would be able to fit in with that in the city. Sure.
 Thank you so much for that question. So actually I had a few minutes when I got here to actually visit with several of the employees in the clerk's office. They all seem extremely nice. It was very nice to be able to put faces with names because I know I've called before and talked with individuals in the clerk's office before. So I really believe in a professional and positive environment. I have served in leadership roles in the past.
 While I worked for the Social Security Administration, I was a lead on the internet claims team that had over 10 employees. I provided training to the employees that were on the team. I also talked to them about conflicts when it came to scheduling leave, when work assignments had been handed out and someone needed to leave on an emergency in order to properly assign that workload to someone else so it could be taken care of in the proper time period.
 Thank you. Other questions do we have? Tracy. So I'll restate this a little bit differently. So you already met some of the team members that are already in the city clerk's office, but you would be, they're pretty tight. They've been working together for quite a long time. So how would you sort of integrate yourself within that office and then how would you describe your leadership style?
 My leadership style is to talk with every employee, to make sure that everyone is under the same directive when it comes to positive environments. Part of the clerk's position is talking with the public all the time. That's something that I've done for a very long time. I would always want to encourage a positive environment.
 I would also want to make sure that if anyone ever had any questions or concerns, that they felt comfortable in being able to come and talk to me. So that's something that I've had supervisors and managers in the past that have always had an open door policy. That would be my policy as well. We all have family and it's just like when you have someone that comes into the clerk's office or into wherever you're working, they have lives that are outside the office and need to make sure that you understand that.
 But it's really about balance, and that's something that's very important to me. How many questions do we have? What experiences do you have with FOIA?
 So I actually have a lot of experience with Freedom of Information Act requests. While I worked for the Social Security Administration, I received document requests from individuals and also from attorneys. So in utilizing the policies that we had, I would go in and review the request and see what could and could not be redacted and also make sure that the proper information in the full request was released. Thank you.
 Would you speculate about some ways that you might build upon the success and culture of the department today to make improvements? Sure. So my goal would be to go into the city clerk's office is to continue to maintain the professionalism of the office and to maintain the records retention. And to that, I would want to make sure that we provided services throughout the city and also to the city council. Anything else?
 So it's not been that long since I was sitting over there asking to be appointed to this spot. So I got to keep my day job when I joined this group and you'd be looking at a full-time transfer. So talk to us about how you're prepared and motivated for that kind of transition into something that could be over in 13 months.
 Everybody expects to have an election, but those are unpredictable. No, I totally understand that and I appreciate you saying that. I know that you were in this seat not that long ago, so thank you so much for letting me know that as well. So I do understand that this is an elected position and I do appreciate the opportunity to serve for the next 13 months.
 As the city clerk, one thing that I would strongly encourage is making sure that I kept the boundaries intact. I do understand that it is my position. As a federal employee, I had to receive training yearly regarding the Hatch Act, so I do understand that you do have to put a line and you have to say, during this time, this is my position and in this other set of time, that would be my time to be able to run.
 complete the campaign. Also, I actually had given my resignation for my previous position earlier in October to prepare to run for city clerk in 2020. So that is something that I had already prepared to do and had started working on. And that's actually why I had stepped away from my position in order to make sure that I allotted the appropriate time. Any other questions?
 Yes. So in the event that you were chosen for the position, you do have the opportunity and the capability to switch out the team. Do you have an intention of maintaining the team or bringing in a new team or kind of
 I intend to maintain the team and to develop the relationship with every person on that team. As I stated before, I had a chance to meet several of the team employees, and everyone seems fly and courteous. I actually, since I had gotten here pretty early, I actually got to...
 witness an employee talking with a member of the public that was applying for one of the boards and level of customer service and professionalism that that person gave to the individual and provided them additional information Made my heart happy to be quite honest. I mean the citizens of Fayetteville whether you're a client
 client or an employee it's something that I'm extremely passionate about always making sure that even if the answer might be no that you're always providing those alternatives you can do this you have this option and that's something that I strongly believe in thank you any other questions
 Thank you. Thank you so much. I just want to say I really appreciate the opportunity to get to apply for this position. Uh I really believe in the values of the city of Fayetteville and I've enjoyed living here. This is just a fantastic community. I love the diversity. I love what the city of Fayetteville does for ex-citizens and I hope to be able to be a part of that. So, thank you so much. Thank you.
 Okay, can we bring everybody back in and set the game plan? I think they're technically invited, but I also think it's bad form if anyone comes back in. Shut up. Open the door. So it looks open. Yeah, I think we need to open it up. I guess everybody can come in. It is public meeting. Okay. Okay.
 I have a question, maybe before we talk about opinions. How does this position get paid? Is there a salary negotiation or are they paid the statutory rate?
 So the city code provides that the incoming city clerk will make what the outgoing city clerk made. So it's just set? It is set. I don't know that number. I'm not sure I know the number either. Okay. The range and the job description. Yeah, yeah. That's true. I think it's somewhere around 90. That's what I'm kind of reading, but I'm not sure about that. Well, if it's set, it's a moot point anyway. I think technically you're allowed, but that is a...
 Decision you might have to make your own Oh
 Well, how do we? Well, okay, here's a couple of ways we can do this. Yes, it is. Nobody said this was going to be easy. And we can make a motion in a second. You know, you can make a motion in a second with someone and you can vote all the way around. Or you can just do a name call, you know, like you say, Cheshire or Walls to eat. You know, like we do the election of the vice mayor.
 And I'm kind of open to any way you all want to do it, whatever you feel comfortable doing. Does anybody have an opinion on that? I do. Okay. I have a strong preference for the second method, the rank choice method that Kit outlined at the agenda session rather than the motion in the second. Okay. I agree with that. Well, to be honest with you, that would be what I would want to do too. But I want to be sure you all are agreeable to that.
 We passed up a chance to rank choice voting when we interviewed a candidate who specializes in election methods. Missing opportunity. That's a good one. Okay, are you all ready to vote or do you want to discuss anything or what do you want to do? I feel like I'm ready to vote.
 And so just to be clear, we're going to do one, two, three, and four for each person? Is that what we're talking about here? Or are you just saying your top candidate? Well, let's see. I'm going to write down everybody's name, whoever gets the most votes. Okay.
 I don't think that's quite what Kit outlined or what I had in mind. Okay. I think everybody should say their top choice. Right. And if no one gets a majority. Oh, that's correct. We should drop off the bottom and do another round and repeat. I agree with you. Thank you for clarifying. I'm just trying to see how many votes everybody's going to kind of tabulate on the first round. And then we'll see what we got. Hang on just a minute. This is hard.
 All right, so I guess are we I might like to give a rationale for my sure. Absolutely. I felt after listening to the interviews that My top two choices were miss Paxton and mr. Qualls and for a moment I Was I was struggling to make up my mind ultimately
 I'm going to vote for Mr. Qualls because I felt that he was prepared to talk about improvements that he might make even as he acknowledged how successful the department was. I thought he had a better answer about that. Otherwise, I appreciated especially their answers about the
 how they would approach maintaining morale of the staff and respect for the staff we already have, which was my number one criteria. Anybody else want to weigh in? Yes, Mark. I really had no idea how it would feel tonight. I had some people and I had some idea.
 But I think the most surprising to me was Ms. Paxton, because I've seen her, I know her work with the Housing Authority. I know that I really appreciate her experience. But what I think tonight, and what is very important to me, is she will fit with the current employees very well.
 And she also, she had a lot of good answers. She's had a lot of experience. She's had experience with the Hatch Act. She was the only one that mentioned that and I liked it because all of them are going to be campaigning. She's prepared to campaign and keep it professional. She is familiar with FOIA. And what she said there that was very impressive is she knew that she had to go and look at legislative items
 and she knew what to redact. You know, when someone already knows how to pull a foyer and know what needs to be redacted, that is a big deal. There's so many things. She was real big on customer service, and I think with her demeanor, it was evident. You know, I felt at first she was just very nervous, but really what she is is just kind of very sincere, and she is who she is. I came to appreciate that during her interview.
 She, I think, has a very good idea of how to have a relationship with the City Council. She would work with the individuals to help them navigate. And I think all of us know how important that was when we were first elected. And for her to mention that, I thought was pretty good. And then as a whole, she said that she needed to keep records and she needed to keep us informed and she would get the information we need. I think that's about right.
 All of these candidates and the ones I know especially could step into this role and do a good job. But what set her apart to me was how she will fit into the current environment and take the role, I think, seamlessly. Sure. I also, well, I was very impressed with all the candidates. I thought they were, we have a great group to choose from, but Ms. Paxton, again, was going to be my first choice.
 In addition to the things that Mark stated, just her extensive experience at the Social Security Administration, the Fayetteville Housing Authority, I think that she has a lot of relevant experience, but I was really impressed how she was talking about
 that even when the answer is no you show people a pathway to yes and i think that's really important i don't want people to get discouraged i want them to to see a path to yes and then also how she acknowledged the importance of work-life balance which i think is something that we need to do a better job of at the city and i think that that healthy attitude in that position i think will be a benefit to us all
 I can't believe that myself.
 Any other? Just want to reiterate Mark and Sarah's comments. I wrote down all of the similar things that they wrote down. They definitely starred work-life balance and taking time to know that her team has a life outside of work and that she was considerate of what's going on with their lives. That struck me as a good fit for the office. And I just feel like she...
 She does have the heart for service that I think that we're looking for to fit the role that's the clerk's office. And so I feel like that she's my first choice candidate. Okay. Go ahead. I'm sorry. Go ahead.
 Well, I was just reading my notes and there was something else she said that is very relevant And that is she said that she needed to prepare prepare for staff If someone was assigned to do something But they had a family emergency that there was always someone prepared to take the role That is critical because it's not that large of a staff and there is a lot of work to be done So and and we've seen how that has worked in the past so many times Sure, you know I
 In going through this process, I have worked with William Chesser on planning commission and I know firsthand about his dedication to doing things the right way and
 and really serving our city. I liked his experience with computers and possibly updating our systems just a little bit. Not really, but he also said, I want to go into this and I want to learn and I don't think I can learn all that in 13 months. But I have some ideas here. I liked his comments about maybe making our forms, our programs,
 Since we are a city who decided we were going to allow people who weren't citizens of Fayetteville and apply for positions in the hopes of getting more diversity, I liked his idea about including some of our documents and applications, especially in Spanish. I liked his comments about management style and your most valuable asset is your people.
 But I also liked Ms. Paxton a lot. And I'm kind of struggling with this here because I respected a lot of her comments because I think she really focused on the good customer service, the retention of data. She has really good experience with FOIA, you know, and just her demeanor.
 she just seems like a really nice person and I think that's super important to have in this job and when she talked about the work-life balance you know that really struck a chord with me because you know
 We all struggle with that, and we don't have anybody helping us with that. Usually we all have to do it on our own. But that really struck a chord with me, and it reminded me of what Mark said about having someone really trained to fill in, and I always thought that that was one of the best things that Sondra did. She left us with a very well-qualified staff. So I don't know. I'm kind of like...
 I think even though I know William and trust him on a lot of things, I think I'm kind of leaning toward Ms. Paxton. I'd like to second Matthew's preference there for Rob Paul's. I think...
 We have 4 excellent candidates as everyone said well prepared, but as we look at a position that interfaces with so much of the city, I think that he's the best prepared through experience with multi multiple facets of of the city. For different committee involvements and just.
 being out there taking his own initiative to be involved in issues and know about the operations. If you've ever watched him help somebody on the internet find information they were looking for or ask a question, it's pretty impressive how quick he can dig things up just through an interest and familiarity. He also mentioned
 things that I'm not familiar with like some of our contracts for software services that that we may not be fully utilizing I hope that was an interesting insight just clearly he's done his homework maybe more than I have and that that impressed me a lot I think when Sarah asked about campaign issues if I were picking somebody that I think
 played the heartstrings of our community as far as transparency and access and enhancing participation those are those are the right priorities that I would be looking for and I guess the thing that really made him stand out to me was that it wasn't all about relationships and serving
 us and the government operations, but really helping engage citizens and get them what they need. And those are things I think are worth making note of again.
 I'm pretty stuck between Qualls and Ms. Paxton. I actually know Qualls outside of here. Coming in, based on what I've seen, I would have easily picked Qualls, but the actual interview and seeing what Ms. Paxton offers, I'm kind of in between those two.
 Miss Faxon if there was somebody that was angry. I don't think they could be angry at her Well, let's get you to something Either got more information for the next time we talk or or
 You know, you've got some other avenue. The fact that she, this happens a lot at the county level, where people are running for reelection and they're knocking on doors when they're like they're supposed to be actually doing their job. And for her to even know that, you know, that's not what you should do is really important.
 She's already started to commit to it by actually putting in notice This is a lot This is not you know passing I saw this in the paper. So let me just you know, give it a shot It's something that she actually
 So, I guess I'm the last one to speak. I'm having the same dilemma between Rob and Cara. I mean, all the candidates were very well qualified, very well spoken.
 But it seemed to me that those two really stood out in a lot of the things that they discussed. And Mr. Paul talked about Champion for Technology Innovation. I really like to hear that. The whole idea about using software that we already have and expanding on that, that was super. But again, what we've talked about with Ms. Paxton and Dr.
 her familiarity also with FOIA, redaction, and then the work-life balance that we're struggling. So I'm kind of on the fence with those two. This is a really difficult choice. I wish we could have two city clerks. Yes, Matt. I'd like to share one more point to advocate for my top choice, Mr. Qualls. Sure.
 You know one of the things that I Was trying to hold in mind as we did the interviews and in the time we have these interviews is Although the clerk's office is an elected position It's it should not be a political position like our positions are and I Was very Curious to hear
 what the goals or ambitions of each of the candidates were with respect to the office because I think it's hard to come up with goals and ambitions when you're trying to be not political and talk about the city. And I was impressed that Rob had already done enough research to know about some of our software contracts, but one of the things
 think is also important to note is that he also mentioned that we might want to look at the way some of our committees are made up in our and how it affects our ability to recruit and govern and if there is any policy that we have at the city that is appropriate for the city clerk to be proactive about its committee makeup.
 and the way the committees are managed and staffed and resourced and kept informed. I thought that was an especially astute thing for any of the candidates to have brought up, and I weighted that pretty darn highly. Any other comments? I appreciate Kara's military service and kind of what she brings together, you know, in terms of amount of...
 I don't know, I guess government related job that she's had and kind of the training for that kind of attitude and that service. I think that the technical part will come that she will offer and also offer that with having information systems training. She has a master's degree.
 with in relation to information systems. So I feel like we asked her to kind of, what kind of technology and innovation she would like to apply for that. I think she would absolutely step up on it. And I just absolutely love her objective, which is very similar to Rob's, but I think she puts it very succinctly, which I think when we're talking about the details to provide excellent customer service to every customer and promote a positive work environment.
 I think she's been really consistent with her message. She hasn't really wavered in that. Mark. If you ever saw Sonya, she was at her keyboard always when she was here. And I thought it was nice that she did put that she types 62 words per minute. Because it says in here that that's one thing that they're looking for. It was just one more thing where I thought, you know what? She's prepared and she's answering all the questions.
 I don't drive well and I don't do keyboard well. And you can't park. And I can't park. It was the night before it was parked. Tuesday was bad there. I accept that. I thought we weren't going to talk about parking today. No. Okay.
 I would just like to point out that Ms. Paxman, she does have her bachelor's degree in computer and information technology and her master's in information systems management. So I do think she's got this covered. But then also with her management experience, she had management experience with over 10 employees, whereas Rob had said he only managed two. Although he had been involved in a lot of hiring and other things which I think were of great value.
 But I do think Ms. Paxton, just I think with her education and experience, that pushes her over the top. She did say she'd been lead on a claims team for Social Security, which I'm sure that's pretty detail-oriented. I think I'm actually swayed to Ms. Paxton. And one of the reasons is
 If there was fundamental changes needed, I would probably be close. But I think the Gary got a great staff and I don't think that needs to be. Manipulated and I think this Paxton would fit in and keep the synergy that's already there. And so.
 because I don't think we need fundamental changes. I think I'm on Ms. Paxton now. I think we're out of the court. I'm going to also, you know, reiterate my support for Ms. Paxton. I brought forward Chesser's name, but I was the only person to do that, so I read the writing on the wall there, but I'm going to go with Ms. Paxton, too. Well, we probably need some sort of formal vote here.
 So I want to be sure that y'all are ready to vote. And if you are, then let's vote. And if we got two, then we'll go back and discuss the two that are tied up or how you all want to do this. All right. Are we ready to go? All right. Lisa, would you call the roll? Call the roll or however we want to do it. So our roll is going to be for? They'll give you a name, right?
 Strongin? Aye, Ms. Paxton. Bunch? Paxton. Turk? Paxton. You all convinced me. Smith? False. Gutierrez? Paxton. Marsh? Paxton. Kenyon? Paxton. Teddy? False. Okay, Ms. Paxton it is. So I guess we can bring everybody in and let the applicants know who the choice is.
 Okay.
 First of all, I want to thank everyone that has applied for this position. I want to thank you all because I know that we had some excellent applicants this time. And I really thank you all for applying. And it really was good for me to hear about folks who are really willing and ready and able to serve this city and take it to the next level.
 It wasn't an easy decision by the council, which was a bit of a discussion, but the council has decided upon Ms. Paxton to be the appointee for the city council. Congratulations. And by your application, you'll be able to be ready to start December 2nd. Yes, sir. Okay. Thanks, everybody, for coming out. And if there's not anything else, we're adjourned.