We'd like to call to order the City Council meeting of November the 15th 2022 care which please call the roll Hertzberg here Harvey here Jones here Kenyon here Whitaker here Scroggins as a bench here Kirk here Mayor Jordan here Join me in the pledge
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I just. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the November 1st, 2022 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, resolution authorized acceptance of a non-matching 2022 law enforcement mental health and wellness grant award in the amount of $94,810.73 for the expansion of the police department's wellness and resiliency program and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three.
 A resolution authorized acceptance of a 2022 community oriented policing services hiring program grant in the amount of $625,000 to fund five new police officer positions and establish a violent crime community outreach unit for a period of three years with a required local match of $341,555
 and an additional $292,054 in non-grant related project expenses and to approve budget adjustment. Number four,
 a resolution to approve the purchase of new and replacement ballistics bulletproof vests and plates from galls llc and various dealers pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract plus applicable taxes and shipping charges on an as needed basis by the federal police department through february 19th 2025. number five a resolution to approve amendment one to
 to the contract with Galls LLC, DBA, Cruise Uniforms and Equipment to allow for a 5% price increase due to inflation. Number six, a resolution to award RFP
 Number 22-10, and authorize a one-year contract with Brown and Brown of Arkansas, incorporated in the amount of $75,000 with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms for the provision of city employee benefits, broker, and consulting services. Number seven, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $101,651 plus taxes and freight charges
 from JCI Industries Inc. for the rebuild of an aerator mixer at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. 8. A resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $15,000, recognizing contract production revenue from the Community Access
 television, DBA, your media, and to increase related promotional activities budget. Number nine, a resolution to award bid number 22-53 and to authorize the purchase of unscreened topsoil materials from DeVore Excavating LLC,
 as needed through the end of 2023 and number 10 a resolution authorized acceptance of a 2022 arkansas department of environmental quality grant through the boston mountain solid waste district in the amount of ten thousand dollars for the purchase of
 public space recycling containers and to approve a budget just maintain a motion to accept the consent agenda is read so move second give a motion a second to accept the consent agenda is read here would you please call the rope for recording purposes i have bunch that made the motion and harvey that seconded correct yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon
 Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Under unfinished business, number one, a resolution to grant the appeal of Council Member Sarah Bunch, Teresa Turt, and Sloan Scroggins to deny conditional use permit CUP-20.
 2022-0394, a cluster housing development for property located at 2992 North Oak Bailey Drive in Ward 3, and to deny a variance to 164.22D of the Unified Development Code to exceed the maximum number of dwelling units. Jonathan, or the council members who...
 I'd just assume let Jonathan start because we've had quite
 quite a bit of back and forth i believe and he's probably better at summarizing it okay i appreciate the benefit of the doubt thank you councilman for a bunch uh jonathan kurth with the development services department i as i advertised at agenda session i'm going to give a quick summary of where we are on this since it's been about a month and a half since the council saw the item and given some of the comments and concerns expressed by both residents and the council at the last council
 Chris Brown, the Public Works Director, is going to go into some background and detail on the city's drainage manual as it relates to this project specifically. And with that, this property is located in northeast Fayetteville. It is in Ward 3. It's located one block removed of the intersection of Oak Bailey Drive and Old Wire Road, which is just off screen in this aerial to the southwest.
 The overall property was plated as part of the Park Commons subdivision, which as you can see again on this aerial, I recently saw several homes recently built, most of these of which are along Old Wire Road and are currently completed and occupied. On this remaining lot of the subdivision, it was originally intended for several single family homes of larger size and larger ultimately lot area.
 After considering their options, the property owner and developer opted to bring through a conditional use permit to develop the property with a cluster housing development for 19 units altogether. This is what the Planning Commission considered and the 19 unit threshold in particular is of interest here since our cluster housing ordinance allows a maximum of 12 units per cluster housing cluster, if you will.
 And so the applicant had the opportunity to consider whether it made more sense to develop this as two separate cluster housing developments of which they would stay below that 12 unit household,
 utilizing this lots frontage on the old bar road to the southeast and a separate out Lots frontage out oak Bailey to the west ultimately for efficiency sake and the maximize tree preservation and then brief circulation they opted to propose it as a single cluster housing development again as 19 units
 uh ultimately with all the considerations staff did support it finding that they used the proposal to be compatible the planning commission largely agreed albeit by a divided vote of six to one
 The council tonight is sitting as the planning commission considering this item. The main findings for council are of course one of land use compatibility. There's some use specific standards, again, that variance request for the number of units in the cluster housing development being the most primary. And then more detailed development level ones such as traffic safety, parking, trash recycling and screening of which I went through at the previous meeting and can touch on again if
 Ultimately, this will leave the council with three options. You can confirm the planning commission's approval, which would effectively deny the appeal. The council does, of course, have the option, since it's a conditional use permit, to amend the conditions, adding, removing them, or amending them, or ultimately denying the project as the last route or the alternative route, which would be approving the appeal.
 uh as far as public comment goes as a brief summary again you all heard it in person but i think it bears a brief reminder there were concerns about compatibility whether it was the size of the units which several residents asserted was smaller than the what is existing in the larger area there's a question of whether the variance was granted appropriately for those 19 units as opposed to 12.
 There are questions about whether the lot actually has frontage since while the lot does touch Old Wire Road, there was a concern that because there's a detention pond there, whether it actually qualified as frontage, which our zoning administrator has said it does. There are concerns about adequacy of internal and external sidewalk networks for the project.
 and some use specific details again, which I covered in the last meeting. And lastly, drainage of which Council Member Tarek asked that agenda session, which I'll touch on this very briefly. An exhibit was requested on the slope on the property.
 And for those who attended the tour probably recall, as you're looking on the south end of this specific lot, it does get steeper. It's about a 15% slope going down to the south where the new homes were built along North Old Wire Road, which gradually levels out to about an 11% slope going from the center of the site towards the detention pond in the southeast corner.
 And most level is that running east-west along the top of the site at about 8%. And again with that, I'd like to hand it off to Chris Brown, the Public Works Director. Okay, you have six minutes, Chris.
 Six minutes. All right. I'll do my best. So we're going to just talk about the requirements kind of in general but also in specifics related to this project. So we always look at the difference in the predevelopment and postdevelopment in terms of the impact. So the developer is required to mitigate those impacts for the additional impervious area that they generate.
 both for water quality and for flood protection. So this first slide is just a picture of the site itself. And this was before any development, before even the first phase of houses that are in place. And this shows the flow areas, the general direction of the flow is from west to east.
 We have two areas that the site was broken into, pre-development areas. The area one, which is the south area, is about 4.3 acres and then area two is about 1.36 acres.
 So go to the next slide, Jonathan. This is basically the same thing, just showing the aerial photos so you can see the context of where the houses and what the existing
 topography and layout look like. So go to the next slide. So this is the overall design layout of the the post development and again when I talk about post development it's the the ultimate development because this site was designed for the houses that are there now and the lots that were created and for this development that is being proposed.
 So the post area number one, which is the south area, is about 2.67 acres, which is reduced from the previous. And then area two, which does go through the pond, is about 2.89 acres.
 So the area one does not go through the pond. The water quality requirements for that area are taken care of by a couple of things and we can talk about that in the next slide.
 Well, first of all, this is again the aerial photography of the current layout. You can see the houses that are constructed and the flow patterns. So a lot of the drainage that the houses that are there now are experiencing is from existing development that was there prior to this development or undeveloped property which is being proposed for development.
 So if you go to, I believe my last slide, it's a little busy, but this has the proposed development overlying upon it.
 And again, you can see the proposed drainage basins, the post area two, which is the black line that you see around. All of that area will go to the pond. Some of the water will be diverted a little bit, slightly more to the east so that it does go into the pond as opposed to going to the southeast through the houses.
 The pond itself, the size of the pond was sized to
 handle all of this development so there's no requirement to increase the size of the pond. It was properly designed, it can handle all of the flood prevention. As far as water quality, there is an expansion of the bio-retention area that's in the bottom of the pond which is basically some filter media and other things that the water settles into and is filtered.
 that will be increased per the proposed drainage plan. So that handles the water quality aspect of area two. For area one, there are two things.
 proprietary device, hydrodynamic separator, which will be in the storm drain system kind of at the very southeast part of the site. And also some small bioretention areas along lot 16 through 19.
 So that's it in a nutshell. Again, the site was designed prior to this development as part of sort of a master plan. That drainage plan is generally being followed again with some revisions to the proposed pond for the water quality piece of our requirements. And that's it for me. I can answer any questions.
 Okay. Is there any questions for the staff? Do you have an applicant that would like to? We do. Brian Teague here as the representative for the applicant, Mayor. Okay. Let me get them both. You have ten minutes. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design representing the
 development group. I'd like to just kind of start it where I tried to end at the last meeting and highlight the city plan and our alignment with city plan. We've been working with that plan for 16 years now. As you probably know, it was developed by Dover Coal back in 2006 as a part of a
 two to three week long charrette process that involved a lot of public participation. There were numerous, half a dozen or so, meeting sites set up throughout town to gain public input from the citizens of Fayetteville on how they would like
 the city to grow, how they would like new development to be formed. That plan, that public participation process won national awards. Probably thousands of citizens of Fayetteville were able to give their input. The big takeaway was that they wanted walkable.
 neighborhoods. They wanted to discourage suburban sprawl. Like I've said, we've all been working with this plan for 16 years now and it requires a lot of change.
 Probably thousands of change to the zoning, to the zoning code, to the development code, the creation of new development codes with the cluster development ordinance and other ordinances.
 It requires change of the builders and developers to change the way that they typically build. That's the biggest challenge of my job is really convincing clients to change the way that they typically build so that they'll be better aligned with city plan.
 And then I think the hardest change is that when we're taking a project that's aligned with the city plan and we're trying to build it in an existing neighborhood that's been there for some time. Last week we were able to meet with the neighbors on site for a couple hours. We had a pretty good meeting. We just wanted to try to see if there were things that we could do to address their concerns.
 And ultimately, I think...
 there are a lot of things that we can agree to do to address their concerns. One, we propose to reduce the density from what we originally proposed to 6.7 units per acre instead of what's allowed by code, it's eight units per acre. There's no variance that's being requested or that would be required for the density that we're proposing.
 Removing some of that density created the opportunity to preserve more trees. Instead of the three significant trees that we were originally proposing, we're now proposing for seven of the existing twelve trees on site to remain.
 We are proposing to put in a drainage swale on our south property line to direct water around existing houses into our pond. In effect, you know, fixing existing drainage problems. We've agreed to put a screen, a vegetated screen around the property.
 We have agreed to, in multiple different ways, to improve pedestrian connectivity, to attempt to improve pedestrian connectivity down to the Neocosco Trail along Old Wire. All this will be done, it would be part of a $5 to $7 million investment in this neighborhood in the city of Fayetteville.
 Much like Charleston Place, I think it's going to create value for the neighborhood, it's going to create value for the city. With Charleston Place, those houses sold, once they got them built, for one and a half to two times the square foot price of the neighboring properties. And over time, those neighboring properties kind of caught up to them, so it improved
 that it will improve that project improved value of the existing neighborhood. And I feel like this one will too. I mentioned the kind of large scale environmental and economic and social benefits that this project would offer at the last meeting. So I won't go into those in detail.
 But I feel that this project is very in line with what was, what is encouraged by city plan for us to bring forward for development approval to the city.
 I think your great planning staff has verified that with its recommendation of approval. I think your planning commission has done the same with the approval of the conditional use permit. I would request the same from the city council for support for the project and to vote to deny the appeal.
 There's been some emailing back and forth between us and the neighbors and Jonathan Kerr. And there's a list of conditions that we are currently working through. A lot of those that I already mentioned. We're willing to attempt to perform all of those.
 I think that the best place to, I think I would recommend to the city council that you let us take that back to the planning commission as a part of a large scale development application. It's really development detailed. I think that would be the best place to work that out. That's all I have. Thank you, I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 Okay. What questions do we have from the council or the for the applicant or for staff? I had a question for staff and that was about the original drainage plan, Chris. And that is, if I understood correctly, stormwater was actually designed to sheet down the hill towards old wire and maybe
 down driveways to get to the curb and gutter down there and that now there's a swale proposed but I believe that I understood the original design allowed that sheeting down to those first homes on old wire for a portion of yes there's a small area that was intended to cheat flow across the the homes that are existing along old wire so that area
 one the south area would flow through the existing houses under the current plan.
 Anything else? Yes. So I was on planning commission before city council, and I'm under the impression that when we go to a large scale, as long as they meet the intent of whatever zoning they have for conditional use permit and the law, we, as I guess not we, the planning commission really can't even say no. Is that correct? Yeah.
 That is correct. If you want to have any conditions that have been requested by the neighbors, then they have to become conditions on this conditional use permit to be enforceable. There are some conditions that have been proposed that I can't agree with, especially a condition that requires the city to do something. That doesn't work. We don't pass a conditional use that says the city must build a sidewalk and do this or that. These conditions are for the applicant to do.
 And if you, you know, at this point in time, it sounds like the developer is not quite sure about all these conditions, which I can understand. The letter for Mr. Teague had, I think, six conditions and now they've grown to 15. So I don't know exactly where we stand, but I think the conditions of approval need to be settled and firm and certain.
 when if you decide to pass this conditional use based upon them and it needs to be done by this body You can't just send it back to the Planning Commission. They already have their condition approval that they've that they've approved First time so why would they change if you want to change anything you have to change it up here. I
 Okay, thank you. Yeah, hopefully we can codify some of this. I think I mentioned at agenda that there are cost shares and there is, you know, interest in finishing sidewalks. So hopefully those conversations can kind of be done before we approve the CUP.
 which I don't think we're gonna finish tonight. So there seems to be a bit here. So thank you. Okay, Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Hi, Chris, I have a question for you. So the approval that you all gave to, I guess the houses that were built along old wire, you allowed water to sheet down in the backyards of those residences. Is that part of our code? Is that allowed?
 In this situation, yes, the way the ground, the topography flows, the water from offsite, that undeveloped area and some developed area did flow through those sites. We do have what's called a master lot grading plan requirement. It's part of the PLAT requirement.
 So, the developer, the engineer for the developer has to show how those lots will be graded in order to accommodate the drainage that does come across the property. And so, what happens when the homeowner, the new homeowner has to put in four French drains and has constant flooding? What's the remediation process or is there one or do you go back and take a look at some of the work that's been conducted?
 Yeah, I think this is a situation that we, as far as I know, we're not contacted about there being any kind of issue there. So I don't know the extent of the issue, if it was simply yard flooding or flooding on driveways or patios or there's actually water in the house. So I don't know the extent of that.
 I would not expect there to be, if the master lot grading plan were fully utilized and constructed according to that plan, I would not expect there to be water in structures.
 When you have drainage and you have areas that are higher that flow into lower areas, you're going to have some water in your yard and things like that, but it should have been properly accommodated per our codes.
 We we heard from several residents six weeks ago whenever we heard this that there was water in the house often or at least during these large storms and so do you go can you go back and re-inspect how the Rating was done or ensure that maybe the code needs to be upgraded I'm just wondering again. It seems like brand new houses should not be flooding I
 Sure, yeah, and again some of that is the lot grading that happens when the house is built and again we, as far as I know, staff was not contacted prior to this development coming through and given the opportunity to go out and look at the properties with those property owners. We'd be happy to go and look at it and see if there, it sounds like they may have already
 got their solutions, but be happy to look at what other solutions might be available. Thank you. And, you know, that 15% slope is pretty steep right there. So do you have, because of the steepness of that, do you have extra requirements or considerations as opposed to like a 5% slope? I mean, 15 is kind of the magic number. There are. I mean, it's all baked into our
 Grading requirements are physical alteration of land code. So when we have steeper slopes, there are certain things that have to be done, whether it be sodding or diversion ditches, those sort of thing. A lot of that is,
 I would say difficult to codify to cover every situation. It's really a matter of good design and making sure that the design is properly executed during the construction. Thank you so much. Anything else?
 I actually don't remember anything about the house's flooding. I remember it being in yards. I'm sure the neighbors will correct us if that's not the case because it is significant once water enters into a building, especially if you ever have to do an insurance claim. So hopefully we will hear from the neighbors on that one.
 I know that we desperately need houses in the city. So I'm hoping that we can make this happen. And I'm glad to see that there is a back and forth and hopefully we can get something that's not a burden for the neighbors, but does get us some of the housing we need. And also really hope the neighborhood tells us if there was actual flooding in houses. That's a significant claim.
 That's, Mr. Mayor, that's kind of what I was going to ask also because I listen to everyone and I don't really recall, I recall hearing about water running across the back of properties but I don't recall anyone actually saying that they had water running into their
 And so usually if you have something like that going on, that's going to be an insurance claim and that's a big deal to me if there's significant damage to someone's house because you know I've lived through that myself so it's not fun. But that's really all I wanted to know is just if we had some real definitive proof that there was water in homes.
 I may have misremembered, so I do hope the neighbors come up here and actually clarify. Thanks. Okay, any other questions? Alright, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any councilmen. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first.
 and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who's on Zoom? Allison MacKimer. Okay, go ahead. I was about 29 months old, and I was driving. So even as the house was- Ms. MacKimer, we need for you to speak up. Oh, all right. Yeah, I can raise my voice a little bit better. A little bit better, but you could even speak louder.
 All right, I will do my best. All right, so I'm at 2980 North Bailey Drive, and our home is right next door to the proposed entrance to the community. And so we did have a meeting with the developers here recently. And while I do appreciate the communication back and forth,
 You know, I do feel like, you know, as Mr. Straubing said, I feel like it would really help us if we had this, you know, work out in these findings. I would definitely prefer that it not move forward.
 uh you know the next step without having some of these things down a lot of the perspective had was yes we would like these things to happen but sure things that city wants to weigh in on and they prevent doing um so you know i feel like we need some better assurance i don't feel like
 a lot of good responses around pedestrian safety. The request to talk about putting in a sidewalk or a bus with the response that we're getting from pedestrians by having them share the private drive with cars and making it a narrow drive so that cars drive slower. And that doesn't help with having children sharing that drive and get to bus stops daily. I also have concerns that there's gonna be a plan for a house build.
 right next to that drive up on Oak Bailey that my understanding is owned by Mr. Parker by one of the developers and then put a house there that's not included in this plan. I'm not sure why it's not a picture block.
 So I would like to hear that as well, and why that's not included in the plan when he's one of the developers. So, you know, that's the thing that I feel like we should talk about. And, you know, talking about this neighborhood being walkable without all of these sidewalks or anything written into the plan, it's just a walkable thing. So, thank you. Who else? Dana Hyatt. Go ahead.
 thank you hi dana hyatt 2972 north oak bailey i live next door to allison the previous speaker just directly down from the entrance to the community wanted to echo the sentiments that we appreciate the opportunity to meet with the developers and understand more clearly some of the areas of discussion there did seem to be some good consensus on the conditions which i just want to
 Allison's comment that I do believe we need final clarity on those, and we do need those, you know, attached as we suggest moving forward. We've got to have those conditions added. Thank you.
 Excuse my distraction. And then also, they referenced that the lot that would have a home constructed on it directly behind Allison, the previous speaker, and adjacent to me, was...
 had been removed and so the number had gone from 19 to 18. And without getting into all the details that we've presented every other time, I do still feel that density is an issue in terms of 18 homes in the area, particularly when you not only consider that factor but to Ellison's points, the absence of sidewalks, narrow streets to slow the traffic down,
 allegedly would, you know, narrow streets would slow the traffic down ideally. But again, parking congestion, children walking to the school bus, people walking in the community. I think the density still remains an issue for me. And I thank you for the opportunity. Thank you. Who else? No one else has raised their hand, Mayor. Okay. Who would like to address this in the chamber? Okay.
 Jack, I need to be able to share my screen.
 good evening my name is nick werner i live at 2979 north old wire road uh we can go to the next slide i just want to real briefly kind of recap some of the issues the neighborhood brought up in our last meeting and i think by and large you can categorize them into compatibility of the proposal
 with the surrounding properties, overall compatibility with the neighborhoods of the homes that aren't immediately adjacent and the intent of the neighborhood. Some loss of natural land for wildlife and mature trees. And we're worried about exacerbating some existing stormwater issues.
 As far as the compatibility with surrounding neighborhoods go or the surrounding properties go, I think the really important thing to note is that they're requesting 18 properties on a space that when you consider or you exclude the open space and the undevelopable space is about 1.8 acres. That leaves all properties included. You're looking at about a tenth of an acre per area.
 cluster home that's in this development that differs from the immediately surrounding properties that have about point two four acres and the neighborhood as a whole that has about point three in the sixteen hundred and fifty square foot size is significantly smaller than any of the other homes in the neighborhood.
 For neighborhood compatibility, I think the big thing we want to hit on is the traffic congestion. Right now on North Old Wire Road from about 430 until 6 o'clock in the evening, we have traffic congestion all the way back to Azalea, so that blocks Strawberry Lane and North Oak Bailey as well. And we're worried about the number of properties and the people or the number of people that would move in there worsening that traffic congestion.
 kind of along those lines, the single point of ingress and egress from that property, while it's not their fault or really anything they can mitigate because of that detention pond, does raise some concern given the number of properties they're wanting to put there. And then finally, when you look at dense development, my understanding is that it really is at least partially to encourage walkability within a neighborhood. And if you look at the area that's surrounding this, we don't have significant sidewalk connections.
 Old Wire Road in particular just isn't walkable unless you're a fan of like crawling in a ditch. I tried it, it doesn't work great. We are sort of, we're about 1.7 miles from a Tier 2 city center. So I think we're a little bit outside that zone where you expect the neighborhoods to be pretty dense. And then there's no sidewalk internal to that development.
 you have the next one uh as far as the land concerns it really centers on those trees from the people i've spoke to that have lived here for a while we've got a significant number of trees that have been around for 20 or 30 years and to be honest with you our tree preservation code that allows for on and off-site mitigation while we do prefer preservation doesn't provide the same benefits if we aren't intentionally preserving these established mature trees i don't think that the on-site or off-site mitigation
 gives us what we're looking for out of that code. And then we've hit on the storm water already. It's a significant hill with non-permeable surfaces that come with all of these houses, isn't gonna help the hill absorb any of that water. My yard will get to absorb it and the drains we've had to put in. And to be honest with you, as cool as the detention pond is, it's not really detaining anything currently. Next slide.
 So our request today, and I do want to recognize, especially since I was a cynic of it last time we were here, the work we've been able to do with the developers and the agreements we've been able to reach. And it's because of the agreements and their willingness to work with us that our request today isn't to deny the conditional use permit outright. We are asking that it be approved, but with the conditions of approval amended.
 to the point that there's 15 conditions of approval there. I'd like to say there were six in the letter of intent. I added two based on verbal conversations after that, bringing us out to eight, and I incorporated seven of staff's original recommendations so that if you guys were to move to approve it with the conditions listed, we wouldn't have explained what the staff has asked for as well. In absence of those conditions, we are not in favor of supporting the conditional use permit at all.
 The big part for us is reducing the density. The 18 homes, the density here is really either the issues are the result of the density or they're gonna exacerbate the issues themselves. Current proposal, like we said, has the 18 houses in it. We are asking that you deny the density variance, which would effectively limit them to 12 since the underlying code is double the underlying density up to 12 total units. Next slide.
 Our proposed conditions, can we just skip to the next one? Our proposed conditions are in that letter, but I want to go ahead and go through them here. At a minimum, we're looking for seven of the 12 significant trees on the property to be preserved, where three of the five to be removed are considered not in good condition by the urban forester. The stormwater mitigation, like we've talked about, the red line is the agreement we've made for a graded swell, which would allow the water to be diverted off to that detention pond rather than into our yards. Next slide.
 We have several sidewalk improvements, the first of which would be the addition of a sidewalk. Time. Mayor, I'd like to give Mr. Warner another five minutes to finish his presentation. Okay. Second. Okay, well that's all right. Everybody's agreeable with that. All right, go ahead.
 so the first of these sidewalk improvements would be connecting the internal i think the bougie word for it is pedestrian circulation system uh to old wire road that would include the completion of the sidewalk at the front of that detention pond which is on their property line
 The next sidewalk we'd like to see is to further the neighborhood connectivity that would entail connecting the existing sidewalk on North Oak Bailey Road in front of or drive in front of some of those newer houses and the sidewalk in front of the newer houses on North Old Wire together so that we don't have to climb that kind of rocky undeveloped land there to get up to the Old Wire sidewalk or the Oak Bailey sidewalks.
 And the final one, and this is the most contentious, but also I think the most important one, is to provide the connectivity to our Neocosti Creek Trail. Now, candidly, I think the reason this is contentious is because it's a really unimproved part of the road. So I think, and I spoke with the engineering department, the reality is we'll likely have to have stormwater pipes and grading and curb put in.
 And our ask is if that is a requirement for the sidewalk, did the city either fund it or agree to reimburse the developers for putting that in and the developers would put in the sidewalk there? Next slide. In total, these are our proposed sidewalks. In black are the existing, in orange is that optional either side, and in red are the ones we're requesting new.
 Our other condition would be for vegetative screening. This was also included in the staff recommendation. Our ask is that on all sides of the property lines, we provide vegetative screening and that the covenants of the owners association provides for the maintenance and survival of that screening.
 And then finally, we'd like to ensure pedestrian safety within that community since there won't be a sidewalk and I don't really trust drivers to not drive fast just because the road's narrow. We would request that some speed bumps be put in or alternatively that there be a covenant or a bond of some sort established with the community to put in speed bumps if they do see this as an issue. And that's all I've got for you. Appreciate the time. Thank you. Okay.
 When John sent 2965 North Old Wire and I was the one that was talking about putting the four French drains in and I brought videos this time showing just a couple storms. Yeah, that's cool. So just to clarify, so nothing was coming into my house but it's to the point where every single time it rains now it's backing up to my foundation. Where I've had to replace the sod twice and it's just sitting on my foundation for multiple days with no sunlight in it.
 if we can get the videos pulled up you'll be able to see the massive runoff that comes from my entire back porch down my driveway and all down my backyard and i'm at the very southwest corner so very top of the hill not even remotely close to the bottom so this was a smaller storm back in november of last year and that's pretty typical of every single time it rains i had to put those last second little lids to stop the flowing from coming up the fence
 As you can see, every single time it rains, it's backed up directly onto my house. If you want to skip to the next one, it shows the flow of the water. So this is what it looks like in my front driveway. As you can see, it goes straight to the sod, washing off, having it replaced that three or four times. And then the next video really shows what it looks like going through my back porch.
 And that's pretty typical before the four fringing drains were installed. And now it's still to the point where it's like that after the drains. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I'm Dr. Mary Beth Sayre. I live at 2983 North O'Rourke Road. I live in the house that all those blue arrows were pointing to where all the water drains
 So I'm quite concerned about additional drainage coming down from this development. It is uphill from all of the houses on the old bar road. And I am the house next to the retention basin. So all of the water that comes to my neighbors,
 Further up the hill to the west comes down towards me, and all the water from the proposed development to the north comes down to me again. All those blue arrows were pointing to my house.
 And I'm hopeful that the swale will be effective in deflecting the water away from my house. But I will tell you, I had to put in five drains to take care of the water coming down into my yard.
 before any of this development, and the water pours down the driveway, and I had to put in a concrete curb to keep water from coming right up against my foundation. So I've already had to make mitigation efforts from the water before the added water from this development. So I'm very concerned.
 I also would like to encourage you to make these conditions specific along with the approval. Not send it back to the Planning Commission, but be sure that the conditions are explicitly stated in this approval.
 I'm concerned about the screening because the property being uphill, they could look straight into my bedroom. Up until now I've had a gorgeous view from there of a nice,
 slightly wooded lot with a nifty old barn and i now am concerned about looking people looking straight down into my bedroom so i do want to have screening that will mitigate that
 And last, as is perfectly obvious, I'm old. I'm 80. And one of the reasons I moved to Fayetteville is because of the wonderful hiking trails. And I would like to have a sidewalk that would connect me to the Neocosco Trail without my having to go a mile and a half out of the way in order to get there. So I hope you will put these things
 requirements that we are asking for in specific conditions that must be met by the developer. And by the way, it's nice to be before you again and especially at this early hour. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is John Hackman. I live at 3193 North Catherine Avenue, so just a little ways down the road from the proposed site. So all of the surrounding areas that's been covered have been built kind of under the same dwelling code that will allow...
 I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a
 It's too much housing in that area. And, you know, Catherine is right off of Oak Bailey, and it's a really steep hill down. That's where I live, right on that steep hill. Frequently see cars going way too fast, exceeding that 25-mile-an-hour speed limit. Down that hill, that's also on a curve. You know, we frequently see that traffic increase when the traffic backs up.
 on old wire. So people use our neighborhood as a cut through to get to old Missouri. And so the traffic is a real big concern for me. Not only that, we have a lot of kids in our neighborhood. It's just kind of a, you can obviously see the concern there. And also with the trails and everything, it's really walkable neighborhood. People use it all the time. I'm concerned with the increase in traffic and how that's going to impact that possibly future.
 creating a dangerous situation. So for that reason and the others outlined by the other residents, I I would support the following and approval of the conditional use permit with the additional conditions that were proposed if the housing number is capped at 12 and only if the number of houses is capped at 12.
 If the conditions cannot be met where the houses are capped at 12, then I would support denying the conditional use permit entirely. Thank you. CHAIR BAILET. Thank you. Who else?
 Hello, my name is Erica Matthews. I'm at 3053 North Quainton Court. And I want to reiterate sort of what some of the other neighbors have said and thank the developers for meeting with us the other day. That was very helpful and elucidating with regard to the current plans for the development itself.
 I do however maintain my neighbor's sentiment in that the conditions that we have sort of drafted up are appropriate. And my reason for this is somewhat several fold. You can't beat soil when it comes to drawing water down when flooding happens. And necessarily this means that any development, which we're okay with some development, is going to make the flooding worse, not better. There is no level of permeable concrete that's going to do better than the grass and the soil that's already there.
 So as a result, many of the conditions that are put in place, particularly the reduction in density, necessarily are going to reduce that flooding by simply reducing the number of homes that have new concrete and patio and sort of driveways around that area that's currently green.
 By reducing the number of density, you can additionally preserve more of the mature trees that are there, which do better than saplings when it comes to drawing water down, simply because they're more established. This hopefully will aid in at least not exacerbating the sheet flow that's going down and hitting those folks on Oak Bailey.
 I think in addition, the vegetative screening is a must and as an applied condition that has to be followed because it's going to add vegetation that will also help with the flooding. So I think that, you know, I'm mostly just echoing the concerns that you've already heard, but hopefully offering another voice here as another person who's going to be impacted by it. So thank you for hearing me on. Thank you. And we also like to address. Okay. All right.
 Sherry Carden, my address is 2913 North Old Wire Road. I own the property adjacent to this and I appreciated them meeting with us the other day. I have two concerns.
 One is I would like to reiterate that I would really appreciate if we could keep it at 12. I have concerns about the same that you've already heard. Too many kids, too much traffic, you know, all of those kind of things. My other concern is whether or not there is going to be any kind of barrier built between this
 CLUSTER HOUSING AND MY PROPERTY. BECAUSE THE WAY IT LOOKS RIGHT NOW IS THEY'RE JUST GOING TO BE LOOKING DOWN ON US. THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE ANY KIND OF DIVIDER BETWEEN THE PROPERTIES. AND I WOULD LIKE TO SEE SOME KIND OF SOMETHING, SOME WALL OR FENCING OR SOMETHING BETWEEN THEIR PROPERTY AND MINE. THANK YOU.
 Who else would like to address us? Hello, good evening. My name is Whitney Carden. I live at 2913 North Ottawa Highway as well. My comment or question is more concerning the sewer. Everybody's talking about the water flows this direction and it flows down and all the flow is this way, which it is. But the sewer line
 comes straight down the hill and dead ends kind of at the top of our property. And then it runs the opposite direction, and then there's three manhole covers up there I believe. And then it makes a 90 behind all those other houses and goes down to the bottom corner of our property
 then across the creek and so on. Two years ago at Christmas I was taking a walk in the back part of the property on Christmas Day and the sewers that were flowing down in the back corner of our property so significantly below the development we're talking about now. Now I don't know what the problem was, backed up, whatever. These poor guys had to come out on Christmas and they literally did. They came out on Christmas much to my surprise and
 cleared all this up and spent all day on christmas cleaning it all up and it was all down running onto the city of fayetteville's property towards the creek you know so i'm just curious and i don't know the answer to that i haven't really seen what the plans are for the sewer for this this development but i don't know if it's planned to run you know out towards old wire and then down the hill
 or if it's all gonna be in that same sewer line that ultimately has overflowed fairly recently.
 so that that would be my concern is sewer flowing the opposite direction of water so and i agree that uh i appreciate the the builder and the owner it is his property and i'm taking the time to meet with the community members and you all taking all the time to listen to all of us so thank you thank you who else would like to address us
 Good evening. My name is Max Parker. I live at 1680 East Shadow Ridge in Fayetteville. I'm one of the owners and hopefully one of the shortest speakers tonight. Everybody here got to hear everything from last time and you got to hear some good comments tonight. We did have a, I thought, a really helpful meeting with the neighbors and I do appreciate all the different ideas and thoughts and
 Getting to ask them a little bit about why you wanted this or why what's why is this important to you? And it all of it makes sense. So it We did I thought put some significant and Concessions whatever word you want to use Together to address those we reduce the density or going to be able to save some more trees there's a lot of discussion tonight about the the water and of course the
 It is a hill. All the problems they mentioned at their houses, that's not something we did. That wasn't what we were doing.
 in doing this development, I believe we can help them. What we're talking about is a swale along that side, a way to help take the water down to a very nice retention pond that we have that can be better utilized. So we are very interested, that makes sense to, if it's something we can do, then we wanna do that. And realize you need to put some statements in your document this evening to make it stick, great.
 We want to work with them. We want to make a really nice project, something that Fayetteville is proud of, something that we're proud of, and we'll look forward to working with you on the next project. So thank you in advance for your consideration. Okay. Who else would like to address the council? Okay.
 Hey guys, my name is Casey Wood. I live at 2979 North Isle of Wyer Road. I just wanted to come up and say that I support all of the conditions that my neighbors have already discussed and for the reasons that we've already discussed. I was one of the people who had to put the French drain in basically the complete extent of our yard to make sure that we mitigated the stormwater issues.
 So I would say that that one is near and dear to my heart and making sure that we get something in the conditions to address that since we are going to create a lot of impermeable surfaces within this little area. And especially considering the fact that.
 You know, whatever we have in place currently obviously did not protect the property owners on our area from that type of stormwater runoff already. So I would like to see some some work done there. I also really have a lot of.
 heart behind wanting to preserve the trees. And I think that the other thing that I would really love to see is a reduction in the density. And I know that they're at 18 right now and my preferred is also 12, but I realized that that's a big change from 19, right? So I would say that if I had to, I would be okay with going to like 15.
 And so I think that that's really the thing that we're maybe not completely aligned on with the citizens and the developers. But I am not against approving this with a little bit lower of a density than what they have at the 18 currently, as long as we get some of those other issues mitigated with the conditions just because it will provide some enforceability for us.
 And I just don't really want to rely on someone's word that they're going to do something. I want it to be enforceable and I want it to be specific. And that's all I have. Thank you so much. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, now I'm gonna bring it back to the council. So what discussion shall we have? I guess I'll go. It's kind of unfortunate seeing some of the houses below the council
 I mean, I kind of assumed that when we did the tour, my family's been in building single family residence since the late 1800s. So one of the first rules of house placement is you don't walk down the houses. And if you ever have a situation where you're walking down to a house as you get close to it, you can kind of expect what we saw there.
 So, right now the density in that area is zero and these houses are having issues. I don't think the density is an issue. There are things that need to be fixed. We will need a swell. We will need some things. And those take money.
 And so if you start bringing the density down to a certain point, then there isn't the money, the property taxes, the sales taxes to fix issues. So I'm okay with the original density that they asked at 12.
 They're not going to build any sidewalks. There's no money. And then if you go 12, what happens is you just have larger houses to make those numbers work. And then you have usually similar amount of impervious surface. It's just bigger houses and less people that then have houses. But we absolutely can't.
 vote for it as is knowing that there's these issues and I hope that we codify some of the solutions. I understand that we don't want to codify the city bringing a sidewalk all the way out to crossover because we don't know what that costs. That may be $400,000, that may be $4 million.
 I don't think we can do that. Kit has mentioned that we shouldn't do that, but we've got to come up with a plan.
 And I think on the first tour or the tour that we had, I immediately said the only way this is going to work is if we have some barrier, some swell. And that was without seeing any videos or hearing anything about this other than my experience as somebody who comes from a family of builders. So seeing the water that they've shown us.
 matches exactly what I thought would have happened. So gotta have a better plan, hopefully one that we need to codify and not just send to large scale development. But I also know that you need money to do the things. And so I'm not worried about capping it as much as the neighborhood is, cause right now we have all the problems they don't want and there's zero density.
 So, we've got to fix that. So I look forward to voting for this at some point. We're not there. It's not correct until we codify some of this. It's not going to work for the neighborhood, but I think we can get there. I have a question for Jonathan or Kit. Can conditions include requirements on homeowners associations or property owner associations?
 Generally not. The city is not a party to covenants in the subdivision, so we generally have no ability to enforce whether those are maintained. I don't know if Mr. Williams has more to add to that. That would be very questionable anyway. The federal law does not really allow discrimination against renters as opposed to homeowners. In most cases, certainly not by a city. So, you know, I don't think there's any way we can make it where it's a single-family property.
 Only and not not well, you can have a single family house, but you can't exclude renters from that. Okay, that would be my concern with some of these conditions on the homeowners association. And then along with kit and Sloan, the condition number seven and condition number 11, both have requirements of the city that I would like to exclude or take out of this letter of intent that we've been provided just to start.
 Okay, Sarah. I have a question here. Now I'm getting a little confused because we've got our packet item for this is 184 pages. Then we have this additional thing that came in. When did this come in today? Looks like it dated November 15th. I didn't see it until the meeting. I didn't see it until just now too. So who wrote this?
 believe that was submitted by the one that was handed to you yes now miss Baxter may need to confirm but I believe that was submitted by a resident in response to the applicants letter which begins on page four which is which is dated November 11th okay I think all right you know
 I'm not going to be in favor of sitting here tonight and trying to tack on things to something we already have on based on something we just got a few minutes ago. I don't think that's very smart honestly. And I think this needs
 If we're going to consider any of these things we need to have time to actually consider them and Also staff to look at them and the city attorney and everything there's some redrafting I probably would rather do not to change them, but just make it more clear. Yeah. Yeah, because it is a little muddy honestly But I just wanted to verify when this came in and what we were what we were dealing with here. Thanks. I
 So, do you all want a table? Is that what I'm hearing? Is that what I'm hearing? A table? A surface? I would say, I mean, I think this is really close, but seeing as we had no time at all to look over this, it's not written by staff, it's written by a member of the public.
 Staff hasn't looked at it either. I just don't think that's very wise to try and add this together tonight. So I'd be in favor of tabling. Before you table, I'd like to have the owner come up and tell me whether he agrees with these this letter that came in or this memo that came in today with the 15 proposed conditions of approval. And if you don't, which ones do you not agree with?
 I would refer you back to the letter that I wrote on Thursday or Friday of last week. It gets the meat of what was in the letter today is in the conditions that I drafted. Mine are drafted in a way, I think, that I know that we can actually perform as a developer
 and actually, you know, put onto our large-scale development. There are a lot of questions with the way that those, that I have, with the way that the neighbor has drafted those. So if it's in your letter, you agree with it, but if it's not in your letter, you don't agree with it? That's correct. Okay, thanks. Mayor Jordan, may I?
 May I provide some information of the council? Sure. Absolutely. So that letter was provided to you all by Mr. Warner, who is a member of the public that spoke tonight as a citizen.
 I believe based on when we last heard this item which was on October 4th and you know I'm like y'all it's been a while I vaguely remember someone asking the group of individuals to maybe get together and assign someone as the representative of all I would have to go back and pull the minutes to verify that okay let's start one time Sloan you've got your light on then Sarah and
 Oh, DeAndre, do you? No. Okay. So this would be for the owner again. So the pedestrian pathway, you feel that financially you can do that at the 18, like all six of these you can do. I know that six is attempt, but the others you feel like the numbers work out.
 that's that's correct okay thank you um and then on on number six i'm hoping um staff can talk a little bit about that i mean i'm sure every major road that's missing a sidewalk you all have somebody at the city has thought about at a previous point so hopefully it's not a complete rework but um something about the possibility of that
 certainly i can speak to that and if chris brown would like to add on to i think that could be beneficial i think the characterization of the north side of old wire between this project and excuse me and the trail long crossover is a an accurate description it is open ditch there's no curb and gutter uh there is some grading that was done when the city did the trail installation but that's over the nai casca creek as you get uh pretty close to crossover
 I mean, by my estimation, it's about 600 feet of trail or sidewalk that would have to be improved there, of which a significant amount would include
 possibly installing some underground stormwater, adding a grading curb gutter. That's typically more than the rough proportional impact of a development, which is a term of trade that planners use to indicate the impact caused by a development as opposed to what could be expected of them to bear as a part of public improvements. Now when staff reviewed this,
 both with the original subdivision and subsequently with this conditional use permit, that was determined to be beyond that, which gets to the specific piece here, whether the city could play a role in that. In this instance,
 is at least initially a little bit of cart before the horse. Typically when the city participates in cost share arrangements with developments, it occurs after the planning commission has granted that planning entitlement. At that point, the dollar amounts are known, construction level details are much more firm and the applicant can work with the city's, typically the public works department to bring forward a proposal to cost share it.
 So this one we don't have that little detail that I'm aware of. Again, if Chris Brown has something to add on, if this has been evaluated in the past, I'm always open to his input, but I don't believe that's been done today. Okay, yeah, because I know that there is a fund for infill projects and so, you know,
 It would be kind of nice to know, you know, within probably an order of magnitude. I know we're probably not going to get any closer than that on cost, but, you know, are we talking a couple hundred thousand or millions? And I'm not asking you to answer that today. Yeah.
 Thank you. Okay. Theresa. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, to kind of follow up on that, would this qualify for that infill? Is this within the location of the city that that fund would qualify for? I'm not as familiar with that piece of it. I'm glad I see Chris Brown standing by my periphery. The water and sewer. We've got the sidewalk man walking up here.
 So, what you're talking about is typically for water and sewer, and they do have a fund set aside. We have a cost share fund that's part of the CIP that's not necessarily related to infill. It can be anywhere in the city. But it's exactly for situations like this where it's an improvement that the city would like to see.
 adjacent to or part of a development, but one that's above and beyond what the developer would be expected to participate in. And many times it's advantageous for us to cost share with that developer to get that done while they have a contractor there and already doing work
 So that would be an opportunity to do that. The other mechanism for building sidewalks, of course, is just through our transportation work plan. And we have budgeted money each year to build those. We do have a scoring system that we look at any kind of projects and it's based on many factors, adjacency to schools,
 density, all kinds of things like that that we score these projects with. So I don't know where that would fall in that scoring system, but that would be another mechanism that we could look at.
 Chris, do you know if this section is on the list? Has it actually been identified as something to be constructed in the future? I don't know off the top of my head. I expect that it is, but I don't know for sure and I don't know what the score is, if it is, but I can certainly look that up.
 Thank you. Jonathan, I have a question for you. You know, the cluster housing is limited to 12 units without a variance and doesn't a variance require a hardship or am I misunderstand that situation? Certainly, that is a good question. There are two typical hardships that the planning division works with. One is related to zoning code as far as like lot widths, building heights,
 and that tends to be a higher bar as far as what a hardship is entitled. It falls back on is the property have any practical use. As our development code goes, when you talk about development standards, whether it's a requirement to build a sidewalk or variance from the cluster housing development, that threshold tends to be lower and can be
 more in terms of if there's an outsized monetary impact, if there can be some sort of development efficiency that can be gained, but it's just a different form of hardship. But yes, it is a hardship required. So could you, do you recall what the justification for the hardship was under this case?
 this project certainly in the applicant can of course clarify that as well since it was their request but largely what it came down to is there was intent to develop this many units and the way the lot is set up is it has access on the old wire road or frontage on the old wire road through that lot where the detention pond is built there's also an existing out lot from the subdivision that still fronts oak Bailey
 And so it is possible that they could have subdivided or actually property line adjusted this larger piece and include a portion of it with a piece on Oak Bailey. So that piece would now have street frontage and maintain a piece that has frontage on old wire. And in doing so, they could effectively create two discrete cluster housing developments. The developer's concern and one which staff agreed with
 is that it would not gain any benefit to the project. It may have actually outsized impacts, providing possibly having duplicative driveways or things like that that may actually have a negative impact on the neighboring property owners. So ultimately that's what it came down to and the request was to effectively combine those to what could be two cluster housing developments into one instead of having those be two separate ones.
 So just to follow up, under our current regulations, they could, without a variance, they could still split those and actually develop just the way you described.
 They could. I think, again, if you wanted to get into more of the details of what that may entail, I think the applicant has gone further down the road of that exercise. It may not be as best to speak to that. It would be unusual, but that still could be appealed eventually to the city council, just a lot line adjustment. Okay. And would they need a conditional use permit and all of those things that we're talking about tonight, too? Yes. Cluster housing is a conditional use in this zoning district regardless. Okay. Thank you.
 Anything else? So what do you all want to do? I would suggest that we table it. We've got a lot of, we've still got a lot of things to work out here and I would hope that the neighbors and the developer would continue their discussions and see if they could be even closer to being on the same page than they are right now. I would suggest that we do for two city council meetings, if we can do that. So that would be, I guess that would be mid-December.
 Yeah, that'd be December 20th. Except for y'all. What does the council members from the ward think? Well, I think it's pretty clear what the developer is agreeing to already with what they provided. I don't know, I mean, I would like to have more time to read over and compare these two letters that we have.
 Because I haven't really, you know, the one that we just got today, obviously, I haven't had much time to look at. But I don't know that they're going to get any closer than they are, though. I mean, I'm kind of. I'm good with two weeks if staff feels like they can codify some of these things in two weeks. I don't know.
 Okay, so y'all would like to table for two weeks? I guess that was my motion. Well, actually, it's going to be three weeks. Three weeks, sorry. Yeah, you're right. You're right. So I move to table for three weeks to the next regularly scheduled city council meeting. Second. Okay, we got a motion to second table for three weeks. Any other discussion? I don't care. Please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon?
 Yes. Wedeker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go on to new business. A resolution to adopt the 2023 Annual Budget Work Program. Paul? Yes.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. We had an expanded work session last week, last Wednesday, to discuss the budget. So I only have a couple of comments on it. The overall budget,
 $216,228,000. Now that's the operating budget. Again, we'll have an amendment that will come through in January. And that will increase budget probably pretty close to $500 million. That's carrying over all the CIP, all the old bond issue amounts that have not been expended.
 But the operating budget, again, is $216,228,000. Now that's a 13% increase compared to last year. When we look at that increase, that increase was roughly $25 million.
 32% of that increase the majority of that increase is due to personnel services. That's for additional positions We've got over 40 additional positions we discussed Which we need to keep maintaining City and city services and an infrastructure in addition to that We've got 13 police officers. Excuse me, 11 police officers 13 positions in
 in the police department, one dispatcher, one of those is a dispatcher, and one is a records individual. Fire, we're requesting 12 new positions in fire, and that again was discussed at the meeting. Parks, six new positions in parks to help maintain our infrastructure increases.
 internal services five new positions for that so all in all the entire budget is up thirteen percent now if we look at strictly the general fund magically that's up thirteen percent also about eight and a half million dollars
 The vast majority two-thirds of that increase is in personnel services. That's for increases that were approved last year That's for contingency for the possibility of increases this year and that's for the new positions. So that's a rough Rough sketch of what the budget is at this point in time and I'll be happy to answer questions Okay, what questions do we have in council? Paul I have a question with the the new with the new
 Propose new positions. Does that include pay raises? We've got an estimate for salary contingent for pay raises now. We're not sure what that's going to be We have a salary survey right now got About 1.9 million dollars for potential raises at this point in time. We don't know if that is going to be Enough it's going to all be dependent on on
 What salary survey comes out and that will be out then in February, early March, somewhere in that period, DeAndre. But we do have an amount in there for potential salary increases in the general fund. So is that the same as, and I should know this, but I just want to be certain, is that the same as the pay study?
 We don't know. The pay study isn't completed yet, DeAndre. The pay study is going on right now. Now, a couple of things we do in the pay study, we have that at the end of the budget year for a couple of reasons. Number one, we want to see where the revenues are for next year, what direction they're going. And one of the things that we're doing this year is we're incorporating
 other budgetary increases for other entities who are within that study at this point in time. So that takes time. So we really don't know what that study is going to be. If everybody's read in the news media, there have been some pretty large increases, especially in Springdale. That's going to have to be looked at. We're going to have to look at this. So we're a ways away from knowing exactly what that's going to be, DeAndre. Okay.
 Does that answer your question? Yes, thank you. Sure. Okay, sure. Paul, I've got a quick question here, and I'm trying to find it. Is there in the budget, is there an additional request for an additional animal services officer? Is that in? Yes. Okay, so that's in here. There's one, yes. One additional person and one truck, right? Yes. Okay, all right. I couldn't find it on there. Okay, thank you. Smart.
 How many open positions do we have right now in this state? Right at this point in time? Okay. I don't know if I have that handy at this point in time. We have a number of open positions. I don't know if I have it at this point in time. We have a substantial number. Public safety is the most, correct? How many police officers do we have? Maybe the...
 Police officers? The Chief can answer that if you don't know. Openings? Openings. Oh, openings at this point in time. Not new positions, but just we have the position, we've advertised it, it's not filled. I think right now we have 15. Jamie, would you care to answer that? We have nine vacancies today. Okay, thank you.
 they've actually just interviewed and uh have made some offers but we do have open positions in the police we do have a substantial number of openings currently throughout the city yeah i i know we've got a lot of open positions at the police and we're looking to add a whole bunch more positions it may make sense to not add as many but then try to figure out how to fill those uh that are that are currently vacant um but that's that's just the thought okay teresa
 Paul, right now, according to your current budget, there is no additional funding to continue the Lake Fayetteville improvements. That's correct. Other than what will be carried on right now, we've got a study going forward that the City Council approved and that's going on right now. That'll be carried over when we bring over the
 the uncompleted capital programs like I talked about before. Right. I think they're supposed to be completed around spring or summer and with their recommendations is my understanding. So do you have, I mean, we talked about this last week that I'd really like to make a budget adjustment.
 to continue that work forward and to implement those recommendations. I don't know if this is the right time now to make a motion to amend the budget to add $500,000 to this upcoming fiscal year to continue to clean up Lake Fayetteville based upon Olson's recommendations once they come out with their report. Okay, well, we have a couple of options and you and I discussed this a little bit, Teresa.
 The City Council certainly can make an amendment to the budget before you. You can also make
 budget amendment at the point of time anytime during the fiscal year to meet that need once you know what that need is so That's those are the two options open to you right now We don't know what this study is and we don't know for a while But those those are the options you can either amend this particular budget Or you can wait till later at that point in time and make an amendment at that point of time to go forward right, I think
 Okay, move to amend the budget to add $500,000 for the Lake Fayetteville continuation of the Lake Fayetteville implementation after based on the recommendations of the study. Okay, and I would recommend that we we authorize that in the ARPA fund. Before we discuss as much, Paul, we need to wait and see if there's a second to this motion and then discussion is proper at that point in time.
 All right. Oh, I'm sorry, Kat.
 I certainly don't want to violate protocol. So right now we're paying for the study under ARPA funds. This is ARPA qualified. So I would suggest that the $500,000 that you're requesting be considered, that that would be in the ARPA fund section in here for contractual services at Lake Fayetteville.
 And we can put that in at that point in time. So one of the things I'm concerned about is that we haven't
 We haven't fully digested or fully laid out how all the ARPA funds are going to be spent. And I want to ensure that we have plenty available for the nonprofits. So what I would ask my city council members today to say that if we approve this, that we will allocate the $500,000. But at a later time, we would identify whether it would come from the general fund or from ARPA funds. Well, we're going to have to.
 We're going to have to pick one of the two right now. Now that can be changed when you come forward with a contract. You're going to, once you know what that is,
 then you can identify at that time and instead of using unappropriation where it is right now, use it from another place. Okay, if that makes sense. And I think that's what you're suggesting. I'm suggesting that we hold off on where the funds will come from. Can we do that? No, you're going to have to... You have to decide tonight. Okay. With the $216 million budget, if we're going to amend it right now, we have to say what to amend to increase for half a million dollars.
 that would have to be addressed. Your motion would have to address that. I would move that we amend the general fund to increase it by $500,000. Now later on, if there are plenty of ARPA funds remaining, we could use ARPA funds, but I want to ensure that we still have plenty of funds available for non-profits. Well, I would suggest
 If you want to do that instead of the general fund, then you suggest we appropriate in the sales tax capital fund. That's where most of the capital projects are. So that's your motion? That would be my motion. But your recommendation is, Paul, the sales tax capital fund. Capital improvement fund. Improvement fund. Second. My second stands.
 Okay, so what's good, what? I have one more question for Paul. Is this taking away from any other projects in that fund? No, it'll have to take, it'll have to pull some money from reserves at that point in time, so you're going to go into a deficit of half a million dollars into that fund at this point in time. I think we could sufficiently cover that.
 if in fact we come forward. Once the appropriation is set of course we'll have to come back with a contract to really actually spend the money but at this point in time it would come out of reserves there. Would it be that full amount five hundred thousand from reserve? Yes. Okay thank you. Okay.
 what discussion do you all wish to have on the amendment anything uh i would like to say i really appreciate uh council member turk looking out for the non-profits because i was thinking the exact same thing um real quickly when we talk about public health and safety i'm looking at springdale's um what they're starting their new their their officers out and i believe it's
 between 53 and 55 so I know that I'm sure that we haven't started the conversation about our Department, but that is a concern of mine If we're going to be hiring since we're going to be hiring officers making sure that the pay is comparable to Springdale and
 I assure you that's a concern of the mayor and mine also. We really don't know what the impact of that deonder is going to be though until we see that pay study and really size it all up. So certainly we're concerned about that and we're going to address that, but we won't know what that number is for a while. I appreciate it. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, and with respect to Teresa, I would be comfortable.
 if the appropriation was from ARPA. Clean water is one of the top three listings that ARPA funds were identified for. And I had written staff previously raising the issue of the Lake Fayetteville water quality project and encouraging that we consider it for ARPA funding. And so my position is still the same on that.
 But I'll follow the lead of council on this. I would simply have a personal preference that the $500,000 be from infrastructure money. The final thing I'll say, Mr. Mayor, is that this would be my...
 33rd year to appear in a municipal budget and it's the first time I'm actually confident my position is in the budget and so I'm pleased. Thank you, Paul. Don't ask me how many I've been involved in. My other question is, as far as the nonprofits are concerned, where are we?
 Where do we stand with making sure that they receive what they've applied for? Because I've noticed that there is a lack of funding for social service opportunities, and especially since COVID, we all know that things have become even more rough. So I am concerned about making sure that our nonprofits, especially those who are on the
 providing of food which is necessary for all of us and making sure that we are taking a closer look at The nonprofits having the funding that they need to support our most marginalized Okay, well, this is a little off the topic the budget, but I'll address that very quickly right now We've got a couple of our projects coming forward tonight. We've got the ambulance authority We've got the we've got the other one that Sarah has on the piece on
 this property. We are going to be coming forward with a couple of recommendations at the next meeting. One of the things we're gonna be looking at is revenue losses. We're gonna see what can be documented. We're gonna bring that back at the next meeting. So we're bringing items forward as we progress. There is still a substantial amount of money in the ARPA fund to address some of the needs of the non-for-profits.
 I really appreciate that. Thank you, Paul. Sure. Thank you. I just wanted to make a quick comment. I was not in favor of moving the $10 million from city infrastructure projects to the nonprofits, not because I don't support nonprofits, but because I think that it's very important that we have these infrastructure projects covered. And I think that I would be more in favor of the Lake Fayetteville cleanup coming from ARPA money. So I think...
 I mean, I would like to offer a friendly amendment to maybe move that back to the ARPA money if that would be considered. Ms. Quick question to Paul. So once we start identifying where all these ARPA monies are going and the amounts and what the remaining balance is, is there a possibility to...
 But the Lake Fayetteville, if there is plenty of funding left, is there a possibility of moving the Lake Fayetteville funding to ARPA and then releasing that from the sales tax capital improvement fund? Well, I think one of two things that we can look at, we could actually do either one. Okay? We wouldn't necessarily have to move it back. We could look at that because that's a capital improvement anyway. Okay.
 So the money that we transfer, and part of the issue with that is that there is a difference in the reporting period and stuff of that nature. Let's look at the ARPA funds. Number one, we don't have to have that committed until 2024. We don't know how all of this is going to play out. But if we in fact transfer part of the ARPA funding, like we talked about, $6.9 million, and I'll be coming forward with a request to do that.
 Our recommendation was that that's spent on capital programs. Now, we favor and we supported water and sewer because we felt that that helped all of the city residents, especially the citizens with difficulty paying their utility bills. Now, at that point of time, we could also look at using part of that out of Lake Fayetteville. I mean, it would be eligible either place.
 Okay? I'm hoping I'm not confusing everybody, but it would be eligible either place. It's eligible off the top out of ARPA because that was specific, water quality was specific in the legislation that Congress approved. Once we get it to general fund, if we get it into the capital program, it would be eligible for anything that's a legal capital program for us. I hope that helps.
 Well, we have a lot of options tonight. I guess what, for right now, I'd like to keep it in the sales tax capital fund just to ensure that we have plenty of
 Funding for nonprofits. So that would that would Stay with my motion. I Really appreciate that and I I'm just hoping that we don't Venture off into the conversation of either or because Paul it sounds like we can do both Water quality and helping our nonprofits are equally important and so I want to make sure that we continue to Keep that in mind because I felt like sometimes we'll start tearing and we we all recognize that our
 water quality is necessary and so is the work of our nonprofits because they are both Committed to improving the quality of life for all of us. And so again, it's Reese. I really appreciate Your keeping your friendly amendment Thank you so much because I want to make sure that our nonprofits are empowered to help our most vulnerable Okay
 Right, the motion is to take it out of the reserves. Let's get it simple. Reserves from sales tax capital, from the sales tax capital. All right, everybody guide? Would you have other comments? You know, it sure gives us greater flexibility, given the water quality actually identified in ARPA.
 We have greater flexibility with our own reserves that we own is part of my rationale behind that. The 6.9 is committed already, we just don't know what the 6.9 will be spent on. So that's just my mathematical preferences that a half a million come out of the 6.9. It seems to me to be a reasonable safe proportion of that dollar amount. We've got
 $4 million that was proposed for water and sewer repair. We had another $3.5 million for park upgrades, capital improvements that don't look like they're going to happen. And it seems to me that there would be
 that margin comfortably left within the 6.9. So that would be my preference. It's not a moral question, so it's not like there's a right or wrong. It would just be my budgetary flexibility preference. Well, here's what my intention is, if this will help.
 six the remainder of the 6.9 because we've already transferred over two million dollars to that so we've got roughly five million dollars we would transfer into the general fund and i'll be coming forward with that at the next meeting requesting that's transferred into the general fund and you have to apply that to certain expenses so we'll apply that to expenses once it's there
 In the resolution, I'm going to ask that that be committed. Now, that commitment doesn't restrict you. You can later change it, but I would recommend that we would commit it
 and it's like a reserve for later transfer into the sales tax capital fund. From there, you can decide how we want to disperse it later. So that would be my recommendation. So if we want to take that and we disperse it later into the sales tax capital fund to fund this, that's what accomplished that. I hope that helps clarify.
 Are we ready to vote here? Not on an amendment unless you want to. I would be happy to hear some public comment. Okay. So we shall then. And Mayor, was that public comment on amendment wasn't at a different time than five minutes? There's three minutes on the amendments according to your rules of order and procedure. Okay. Well...
 everybody gets one turn to speak and you get the three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that margaret britain okay hi i'm margaret britain and my address is 1931 north wheeler avenue
 Back in 2020, this council made an important commitment to water and to park quality by resolving to clean up the water in Lake Fayetteville to swimmable quality within 10 years.
 Earlier this year, the council funded the Olson engineering study to figure out how to do that to the tune of about 200,000. By next June, that is about 27 months after your resolution, the city will get the results of Olson's engineering plan and work can commence if funded.
 I'm here tonight to encourage you to pass Councilwoman Turek's amendment so that that work can start right away in the last half of 2023 rather than delaying the beginning of work to 2024. Lake Fayetteville Park is the most used park in the city by walkers,
 birders, bikers, hikers, rowers, kayakers, fishermen. And it would be perfect for standup paddling too and sunfish sailing, but the water quality is so degraded that that's not actually possible. It's actually dangerous sometimes.
 In the spring and summer, the algae often produces enough microcystin to be toxic to small children and to dogs. We can clean it up, and we need to commit the funds. This 500,000 will get the cleanup started. Lake Fayetteville is a small drop in the freshwater budget of Arkansas, a water-rich state. But it's our drop to protect and to improve.
 As much as I want to see the water improved for our uses in Fayetteville, we do have a human responsibility to all the folks downstream in Arkansas, Oklahoma, and all the way to
 where water connects with drinking water sources, recreational uses, and marine fisheries. What we do here matters, and as a city that prides itself on being sustainable, I know that you all understand that. So let's get to work as soon as we can to clean up the water in this jewel of a park. And thank you for your consideration tonight. Thank you.
 Who else mayor would you mind reminding everyone what the comment period is on? I'm afraid we might have some people ready But I understand what we're talking about is that we have a motion to take the money out of the sales tax reserves, correct so it's
 that's what it is I don't know how much simpler to put it yeah amendment to the budget so I was just to take $500,000 out of the sales tax reserve discussion on the budget thank you I have others who want to talk about other topics Jack Meyer
 Mr. Meyer, I understand that you're not on the correct version of Zoom, and our technician says you will not be able to comment this way. Perhaps you could call in. Gladys Tiffany. MR. Go ahead, Gladys. MS. Thank you. My name is Gladys Tiffany. My address is 105 North Willow. I have been the director of Omni Center for Peace, Justice, and Ecology for a long time.
 And I'm also a member of the community resource board for the city and I've had the opportunity to watch
 as the number of nonprofits who have been applying for some of the money that has been put out through ARPA has been disposed of. And it's just been incredibly enlightening and inspiring to see just what kind of things the nonprofits in our area are doing. And I'd really like to encourage the city to just think about all the things that happen for the people of Fayetteville because of those nonprofits
 and that every bit of money we put into those nonprofits really does benefit the people of Fayetteville. So, I would like to encourage support for Ms. Turek's amendment because I believe that that money will be used well by the nonprofits that we're donating to. And I think that it's going to be worth our while. And I thank you very much. Ann Marie Buerkle Monique Pierre. Monique Pierre Go ahead.
 Monique Pierre- Could you please unmute yourself, Monique? Monique Pierre- Okay. I'm sorry about that. My name is Monique Pierre. My address is 1352 North Izzard Lane, Apartment 104 in Fayetteville, Arkansas. And I would like to speak in support of the budget amendment as presented by Ms. Ferg. I believe that in the instance where we see dollars being moved for the purpose of providing
 from ARPA to other resources, oftentimes it is overlooked. And so I do appreciate the call out to nonprofits who are doing very hard work with very limited resources. I would also like to make a statement with regard to the comment on future funding. Remember that while you can move dollars from ARPA to other sources,
 When you get, for instance, to infrastructure, when it comes time to get your new infrastructure dollars, which are coming to handle infrastructure projects, you cannot move those back to nonprofits. Unless you have nonprofits that are out there paving sidewalks and putting in sewers and doing all those other things, they're not going to be able to touch those dollars. And so, while these dollars are able to be used in both ways,
 I would like for everyone to consider that it's really a one-way street when it comes to access to resources for nonprofits to either be made whole from their prior commitments, that when they were called upon to do the hard work, they did it without a second thought, and they do it every day. It's a sacrifice. And so I would just like that to be considered in support of the budget amendment. Thank you. Okay. Wesley Oliver. Yes.
 Go ahead. Wesley Oliver Hi, my name is Wesley Oliver. I am the president of the Rowing Club of Northwest Arkansas, and we are a nonprofit community rowing club that caters to both adults and high school rowers, and we operate on Lake Fayetteville on an almost daily basis. So the water quality of Lake Fayetteville is intensely important to us as a club and a nonprofit.
 One of my chief concerns is always about the water quality because we're a sport that, we're a boating sport. You know, boats tip over, kids go in the water, and we've never had any health issues yet, but it only takes once for
 for a health problem to develop that could be very serious, especially when we've got teenagers rowing on there. So I would really like to encourage this money to be allocated whatever pot it comes out of, because I think this project is very important to the park and to the community. Thank you. Mr. Thank you. Who else? Ms. Mr. Meyer's back. I hope we can hear him this time. Jack Meyer, if you'll unmute.
 I'm sorry, Mr. Meyer, we're not coming through, and that would be the last hand on Zoom there. Okay. Who would like to address us in the chat? Hello, council members. I'm Sarah Lewis, and I am a City of Fayetteville resident at 1908 West Berry Street, and I'm also an activist.
 activists from water quality in several roles. I wanted to highlight a few different things. One that investing in water quality just at a broad level has a huge return on investment since we are talking about the budget. It's like 500% return when you as a community invest in water. The World Bank has noted that reduced water quality reduces property values, limits economic opportunities and this was so strongly emphasized.
 supported this morning I had a chance to speak at an event hosted by Northwest Arkansas Council and Thrive Regional Partnerships and the whole morning was about outdoor recreation panel on outdoor recreation and the entrepreneurship that is growing and growing in our region about creating these outdoor businesses outdoor recreation businesses in our region and how much funding is going into that and
 And then the other panel was about how do we protect natural environment resiliency in our region. And it was just all of this energy around celebrating outdoor natural environments and the entrepreneurship economic development opportunities in that. And I think this is...
 By supporting this and really celebrating it, it keeps Fayetteville at the edge where our whole region is going. Lake Fayetteville is a treasure. I want to point you towards a place that I had a chance to spend some time. It's called Lake Ancy, A-N-N-E-C-Y, in France. In the 1950s, it was a very polluted industrial waste, residential waste.
 It's an alpine lake. It's just this magnificent place. And the community worked together to clean it up. And it's a worldwide destination. The whole community is based on this lake. The economic activities around the cycling, the sailboating, the...
 So it's 500,000 today, but to keep in mind that we have an opportunity to continue to invest in this place, not just for the water quality, but for the whole. The whole of Lake Fayetteville and the whole of Lake Fayetteville, and so we're going to continue to invest in this place. And we're going to continue to invest in this place, and we're going to continue to invest in this place.
 Treasure that we already have and how can we further? Leverage that so totally agree right now. It's not acceptable the way it is and how can we make it better? So thank you so much for your time and for your service on the City Council. It's so important. Thank you. Thank you Who else?
 I could even council members my name is leaf can burn and the executive director of the Illinois River watershed partnership I live at two to three one north briarwood here in it well. First I want to thank you all for considering focusing on water quality it's refreshing and wonderful to hear that in such active conversation so I appreciate that I also appreciate.
 that you all have made the investment in this study to look at Lake Fayetteville. And I'm looking forward to the recommendations. I participated in the stakeholder meeting that was held back, I believe, at the end of September, and I'm looking forward to those recommendations.
 In 2006, 13.5 miles downstream of Lake Fayetteville was designated on the 303 EPA Clean Water Act Section 303 as impaired for E. coli. The efforts of the city and many partners, University of Arkansas Extension, IRWP and
 over many years implementing projects, green infrastructure and low impact development projects downstream and upstream. I should say downstream of Lake Fayetteville but upstream of those 13.5 miles were successful and ultimately removed those 13.5 miles from the impaired list on the 303D list of impaired waterways here in Northwest Arkansas and the Illinois River Watershed.
 I think that through those efforts, and that you can make success, great strides and success in improving water quality. And I think investing in future water quality improvements, which will hopefully come out of the recommendations that you all are looking at
 through this study are worthwhile. And so I'm really happy to see this amendment and that there's active investment and I think it will leverage additional funds that will hopefully support implementation of those recommendations. So understanding that it is coming out of the general fund, I wanna speak in support of this amendment. Thank you. Thank you. Who else?
 good evening mayor jordan city council i'm dot neely i'm ward 4 uh resident uh 1244 north mission and i a previous speaker on the zoom uh brought up a question that i have a point of request for clarification if it's possible that the arpa funds that were specifically identified as going to water quality if it's possible for those
 to be used for other projects related or to eventually go to the nonprofits, then it makes a good case in my mind to have the funds taken from the general, the funds for cleaning up Lake Fetwell to be taken out of the general
 FETVIL funds so there's more money available for the other projects if that is the case. Either way, I am in favor of the funds being allocated for the cleanup of FETVIL. As other speakers have pointed out,
 downstream from Lake Fayetteville, the Clear Creek flows into the Illinois River and this would just continue to improve that which makes Oklahoma happy not that we're really worried about anything beyond Fayetteville, but it's it's a good diplomacy move and I thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hi, I'm Sarah Moore and I live in Ward 2. I really appreciate the conversation tonight around the budget and this amendment. The conversation that was had and the amendment raised is a really great illustration of a broader point, more conversation I want to have around the budget and the budget process.
 So many things within our community are needing addressing. We have goals towards solving for. When you look at our vision statement to keep Fayetteville a vibrant and welcoming city that encourages diversity, creativity and innovation while providing our citizens the opportunity to thrive.
 You know, what are the measurements of that success, right? Clean water is important, affordable housing. We have a lot of incredible goals that go behind us on the board. And I really have to say it's so incredibly important in our budget process at an earlier time to really define what are those metrics for success. What are those things that we really want to achieve that we say that we're proud of and faithful, that we're going back and we're fulfilling that vision statement?
 I also read in the start of our budget that the budget is built on the policies, goals, and objectives that are outlined by the mayor and city council. But I don't know where that entry point really has been for our community in this process. Again, I appreciate all the work that the city staff, we have accomplished so many things in the past years on projects and improvements in our community.
 But there are lots of folks in our community that are struggling. I've talked to over 3,000 households in affordable housing, water encroachment, folks being able to unafford basic life necessities. There are a lot of struggles within our community that our budget process and how we spend their taxpayer dollars are so important to address.
 And so I really want to say, you know, who defines what really goes into our budget? I mean, affordable housing, we say, is incredibly important. But so far, you know, that's not something that I think has a line item in our budget. Improving overall well-being, inequalities, and plans to close those gaps, I know those are important as well. And I just want to illustrate again with your amendment was so important.
 Teresa put forward in regard to what we can answer for with water quality, which is important for creating equality and reducing inequities within our communities. But even if you think about other additional solutions in our community, things like breakfast after the bell was widely successful but not funded statewide after we saw that it actually decreased behavioral concerns within our schools.
 If we ended up looking at those 10,500 students in the city of Fayetteville at $3 a day over 178 school days, that's $5.6 million. I just am wondering in our budget process, is it time now to pause and to think about all those possible solutions that are incredible like this amendment that can solve for water quality? And I just want to end with this. I apologize. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Mayor, Mr. Meyer is back on Zoom and he's the last one, so we'll give him one more shot. Okay, let's give him one more shot. Can you hear me this time? Yes. Thank you very much. Hello, my name is Jack Meyer. I live at 9512 Preservation Drive, Rogers, Arkansas. I'm a youth rower at the Rowing Club of West Arkansas and have been rowing on Lake Fayetteville since seventh grade. Practices are about every four days a week, meaning I spend about 10 hours per week at Lake Fayetteville.
 Rowing has a small presence in Arkansas and Lake Fayetteville is home to the only rowing in Northwest Arkansas. When I first joined in seventh grade, I was the only youth rower and wanted to see my sport grow.
 for youth team and a consistent damper to growing team has been the quality of the water at Lake Fayetteville. Having to tell new members not to ingest the lake water because it can make you sick has always generated great concern and fear among members. And they're afraid of falling in which does not help with learning to row as rowing is not an easy sport and adding a fear of water dampens people's progress and excitement. Then having some days where practice is canceled due to toxic algae blooms only exacerbates the situation.
 For example, my club hosted a recent Learn to Row event for the Marshall League community. I was in a boat helping teach new people the fundamentals, and the first question I was asked was, if I fall in, will I die? I was told the water is poisonous. She was slightly nervous as it was her first time on the water and her thoughts already went to death. After a paddle around the rake, it turns out she was able to enjoy the event and the water quality almost scared her away and she would have missed an opportunity to discover something she liked.
 In addition, cleaning up the water would aid in a larger issue. Lake Fayetteville ultimately connects down to more watersheds downstream, and toxic algae blooms are not new to me, as when I was little I used to live in Tampa, Florida, and occasionally there would be deadly algae blooms that would kill wildlife by using up all the oxygen in the water, leaving dead fish and knockdown effects on the environment. This was caused by the same reason of the water quality issue at Lake Fayetteville,
 such as manure and fertilizer from farms. These pollutions make their way into rivers and into the Gulf, culminating in the large algae worms. For the ability of public to better enjoy the beauty that Lake Fayetteville offers, as well as being part of the solution to our national issue, please consider voting for funds to start work for cleaning up the water at Lake Fayetteville. Thank you for your time. All right. All right, no more on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. All right. We have an amendment before us. We have a motion and a second.
 Take five hundred thousand dollars out of the sales tax revenue. I mean sales tax reserves Correct. Okay All right care which please call row Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones. Yes, Indian. Yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes Thanks. Yes Kirk yes Okay
 Now I'm bringing it back to the council. We have the budget amended so far. So what discussion would the council like to have on the budget?
 I have another budget amendment to propose. Okay. You all heard at agenda session last week about the Pick Me Up program, how successful that had been going. My understanding is they need about $100,000, and there's $80,000 in the budget. So I would make a motion to amend the budget to add another $20,000 so that they could implement this pilot program that appears to be extremely successful now.
 and it's also helping clean up water quality and making a big difference in the lives of our unsheltered folks. Second. Okay. I have a motion and a second. What discussion would you like to have? I really appreciate that because being involved in the initial discussion and looking at what Little Rock and Hot Springs, both Arkansas cities, have done, and especially with Ward 1, Sonia was telling me that
 Walker Park now and other residents have been bragging on how good Walker Park is looking. And so I really appreciate Peter and his team and Heather for what they've done as it relates to making Walker Park nice. I really appreciate that. And so Teresa, again, I really appreciate you making that recommendation because I was looking at doing the same thing. Okay. Any other discussion?
 on the amendment can i can i clarify exactly what her amendment should read then she is going to amend and increase the sustainability and resilience program in the general fund she's going to add uh twenty thousand dollars to services and charges that would be the amount
 okay all right anything else all right care which please call the bell Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Indian yes we'd occur yes Scroggins yes much yes Turk yes okay anything else I move we approve the budget as amended second
 Okay, we have a motion and a second. Before we do, we have to take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. They have five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom? Susan. No one has their hand raised, Mayor. All right. Who would like to address us on the amended budget in the chamber? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. So we have a motion and a second. Any final comments from the council? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Third, Spire. Second.
 Shoot. I should have waited until she got back. That's my fault. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whedeker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Let's go to number two on their business. Yes.
 a resolution to grant the appeal of council members mark kenyon smones grogan and sonya harvey and approve conditional use permit cup 2022-0077 for short short-term short-term rental at 1616 south price avenue jonathan thank you mayor
 Allow me a moment to pull up my presentation. All right. This particular property, excuse me, is in South Fayetteville. It's located in Ward 1. Getting more specifically, it's in the Parksdale and Center neighborhood, which is located due east of the Razorback RV Park and southeast of Pinnacle Foods. Jonathan, hang on just a minute. Council Member...
 Would you like to vote on the budget? I would like to vote yes. Sorry, guys. I want to get that for the record. That was my fault. Go ahead, Jonathan. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. The specific property is located on the east side of Price Avenue in the Park Stales Center neighborhood. It includes a house that was recently completed in, I believe it was 2020.
 The house in question was developed with a new driveway, new sidewalk, new home, includes three bedrooms, and the applicant asserts three parking spaces for it, but based on the tour when we were there yesterday, there were, looks like it could accommodate four vehicles for what that's worth.
 The request in question is to utilize this property as a Type 2 short-term rental. More specifically, it's an appeal requesting that the Planning Commission's denial of a short-term rental license be overturned and approved.
 As a reminder, the City Council, the Type 2 short-term rental is one that is primarily used as a short-term rental, not a long-term resident, either for a renter or a permanent occupant. Since the startup period that was adopted with the short-term rental ordinance terminated or ended in July of this year, all Type 2 short-term rentals are required to go before the Planning Commission for a conditional use permit.
 Again, this one is unique in that it was denied by the Planning Commission and successfully appealed to the City Council.
 When it comes to considerations that staff and the Planning Commission typically make on Type 2 short-term rentals, the first and highest level is what's the zoning designation of the property and how that relates to the citywide density cap that was adopted with the ordinance. This particular property is zoned NC, neighborhood conservation. Since the hotel and motel uses are not allowed in that zoning designation by right, it does contribute to the citywide cap.
 in evaluating this application as it relates to the number of approved short-term, type 2 short-term rentals to date. It does not exceed that cap, so that's the first threshold staff looks at.
 Other considerations are how it will be used, and this gets more into the conditional use permit considerations as far as details of the proposal. Our short-term rental ordinance allows up to two guests per bedroom plus two, with this being a three bedroom building, it'll allow eight guests, so that's two per bed plus two.
 Additionally, it does have an ability to park four vehicles on the site, which is the maximum that our development codes allow for a single family home, so it aligns with that as well. When it comes to trash and recycling removal, the applicant proposes to continue using a residential service typical with the rest of the neighborhood.
 With these parameters, staff does find the request to be compatible and recommends in favor of it. When the Planning Commission heard the item, they felt differently and ultimately denied the request unanimously.
 There was a fair amount of discussion, but a lot of what the denial revolved around was the existing conditions, especially that part of the neighborhood where street widths are fairly narrow. There's an overall lack of sidewalk, although this house being newer was built with sidewalk. The neighborhood at large does not have any sidewalks. Most residents walk in the street.
 There's also a concern expressed about the potential for destabilization of the neighborhood, having more transitory home occupants rather than permanent residents.
 uh they these planning commission concerns a lot concerns aligned quite a bit with the public comment heard at that meeting the city council also had a little bit of a sneak peek at those comments during your recent short-term rental ordinance conversation several members of that neighborhood came before the city council and spoke in broad terms about the ordinance but also more specifically about their concerns for their neighborhood
 of which one is that this area was deliberately rezoned by the City Council as part of a neighbor-initiated rezoning effort that downzoned the neighborhood to hopefully protect what they see as its character and a lot of the naturally occurring affordable housing in that area.
 All that said, I'm available to take any questions. Similar to the item of old business tonight, the City Council is sitting as the Planning Commission on this item. So you have the options to grant the appeal and approve the conditional use permit or deny the appeal and uphold the Planning Commission's denial or possibly approve it with conditions.
 As far as the tour went on Monday, it was fairly adverse weather, but there were quite a bit of residents that came out. I'm certainly defer to Council Members Turk and Harvey that were able to attend. The residents came out and spoke with their concerns that were largely what I described a moment ago. But again, otherwise, I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe Robert Rhodes is here as the representative for the applicant in person. And I believe Aaron Odie is online as well, if necessary.
 Robert Rhodes Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the counsel? You have 10 minutes. Robert Rhodes Good evening. My name is Robert Rhodes and I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill. And I think Mr. Kurth indicated that the petitioner, my client, Aaron Odey, is on via Zoom. Also let me introduce other people in his family who I will speak about in my presentation.
 um aaron or i mean um colt uh that is aaron's brother um those of you that went to the um to the tour noticed that he was our our guy that opened the door and was kind enough to walk us through and then the two other people are aaron's parents that's um that's luanne and um
 I apologize, I sat here too long. My brain just kind of... Anyway, Blake Odie. And again, I introduce them not just to introduce them, but because they're relevant in this discussion. A lot of my comments will be in response to the neighbors' comments.
 that I'd heard on the video that I watched of the Planning Commission, as well as the comments that I heard yesterday during the tour. And again, this is one of these scenarios where we have someone that's petitioning you for this CUP that has heard the comments and has tried to do something about them, tried to address them. And I think as I go further, you'll see that that's what we've done here.
 Aaron O'Day built this house with the help of his family for use by him in the long run while he's working in Austin. He plans on coming back to Arkansas at some point. His family and himself will be using the house two or three times a month. His family, except for a brother that lives in Fayetteville with his wife and kids, that's Colt that we already met, live in Conway and Little Rock.
 A brother-in-law comes to Fayetteville to mountain bike, and he stays at the house. His mom and dad come up quite often and stay at the house to see their grandkids that live in Fayetteville. They also come here for Razorback games. And Aaron will also travel from Austin to come here for games and other events.
 The reason I'm going on about that is because I think the neighbors had a very big concern that this was some out-of-state landlord that really didn't have any roots at all in Fayetteville. And so I tell you that to say that's not the case, fortunately.
 Mr. O'Day does not want to rent the house, but instead wants to share it with his family. But in order to make his mortgage, he wants the ability to also use it as an Airbnb. When he lists the house on Airbnb, it will be restricted and kept from being a party house. And I use the word party house because one of the neighbors at the Planning Commission particularly brought that up. And so again, we're addressing that.
 Out of respect for the neighbors, it will not be a party house, but also out of respect for Mr. Odie's own family, who will probably be staying there more so than the Airbnb guests. Some of the restrictions will be no parking in the street, quiet time after 10 p.m., no more than seven people, including kids,
 Any guest that doesn't abide by the rules has consequences of a poor Airbnb rating, which makes it more difficult for them to use and rent Airbnbs in the future. Those of you that are familiar with Airbnb, Airbnbs, know that
 This may sound to someone who's not familiar like, oh, well, yeah, they're gonna get a bad rating. Well, it's more than that. You can be sometimes kept from renting an Airbnb because your rating isn't of a good enough quality. Further, Mr. O'Day can refuse to Airbnb to very young guests that have no Airbnb ratings or recommendations. Most importantly,
 he will incorporate these restrictions as conditions to this CUP. Those conditions again were no parking in the street, quiet time after 10 p.m., no more than seven people, including kids, to be able to rent it. As you can tell from the tour of the house, it's well kept. It also has four parking spots, so there absolutely will not be parking in the street.
 Not only because of the Airbnb rules, but because there is truly adequate parking. Actually, I think those of you that went to the on the tour, there's two parking spots in the garage, but you could actually double park and put four cars in the driveway if you wanted to. But if you're only going to have seven guests, then four should be sufficient.
 The one neighbor that lives right next door made the comment in a Planning Commission meeting that an absentee landlord would not help the neighborhood clean up the creek. Mr. Odey's response to that is he plans on keeping his house and the yard and the creek behind his house clean and do whatever it takes for the upkeep of his property. And if he's not there to do it, his dad or his brother will.
 Mr. Odey is not an absentee landlord, even though he's in Austin. His brother Colt, who lives a couple of miles away, has volunteered to the neighbors yesterday during the tour, he's volunteered to the neighbors that he would be on call for them during Airbnbs. Lastly, this CUP request is compatible with the neighborhood.
 It does not damage the neighborhood, especially in light of the conditional Airbnb rules to be implemented and made part of this CUP. And further, the staff supports this, and I presume they would probably support those CUP additional conditions that I've indicated.
 Anyways, I hope that you'll support it as well. I stand ready, willing, and able to answer any questions. And if I can't answer them, somebody back there with me probably can. Thank you. Okay. Does the council want to say anything that did the appeal? Or not? Okay.
 I'd just like to thank the applicant for giving us a tour yesterday. That was really nice in the middle of the snowstorm. And so thank you for opening that up for us and letting us see the place. Okay. What questions does the council have as a whole? No? Okay. Well, then let's take some public comment. Okay.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? Ruth Van Antwerp. Okay, go ahead. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and council members. I tuned in tonight in time to hear a council member say
 We desperately need housing in Fayetteville. And this is a beautiful home on 1616 Price that we desperately need for housing for Fayetteville people. We would actually love to have the O'Day family as neighbors. That would be great, especially children. We're an older neighborhood. I'm sorry, I forgot to say my address. 969 West Boone Street, Fayetteville. Thank you.
 We would love to have them as neighbors, and we would love to have more children in the neighborhood. We're a family neighborhood, but we're all aging out. We do need fresh families and people, but we don't need a commercial project. We're a neighborhood conservation district,
 We had some kind of compact with the city that we'd be single-family residential, we'd be protected for our health, welfare, and safety. The Planning Commission did not make this decision lightly, and their decision was unanimous. They actually err on the side of granting these CUPs for Type 2 short-term rentals. So it was a thoughtful and wise decision.
 At least two families and I are in the process of planning homes in this neighborhood. We're going to live in them and be members of the Fayetteville community. And I would love to have the O'Day family do the same thing. I will not be extracting wealth from Fayetteville, but I will be investing myself and my money in Fayetteville. I'll be building my retirement home on 969 West Boone.
 As the City Council works on updating the laws for Type 2 short-term rentals, please consider the 2% cap for our tiny neighborhood conservation district. The heart of this district, which is the most restrictive, only has 27 homes. We already have one Type 2 short-term rental, so we're already at 3.7%.
 And we bought these properties in part because the conservation district made them even more appealing to us. Please respect the unanimous decision of the Planning Commission and uphold their decision to deny the cup. We wish to conserve our neighborhood, and we also would love to welcome the O'Day family into our neighborhood. Thank you. Okay. Who else? Thank you.
 No one else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to address on this? Yes. Thank you. My name is Jeff Connor. I live at 937 Boone Street. I want to first address a couple of things that Mr. Rhodes said to the council. The Odie's did not build that house. It was a spec home. There were two houses side by side built by a contractor. It was purchased and then immediately a for rent site went in.
 I also take exception to family staying in this house because that house had been rented out until very recently when the tenant was evicted so that it could be turned into a short term rental.
 There are six houses. I appreciate democracy. I've had the opportunity to vote for some of you and support some of you on this council. And I'd like to think that you believe in democracy, too. There are six houses on Boone Street, the street that I live on. And I live right on the corner. You can see my house in the video that was shown. Six houses on Boone Street that are occupied.
 All six owners are opposed to this short-term rental being approved. There are six owners and six houses on Price Street. Five are opposed to this conditional use permit and having a temporary rental in our neighborhood.
 I met Cody, a very nice young man. His parents seem to appear to be wonderful people, and I invited them to our neighborhood. We would welcome them in our neighborhood to live. We were simply trying to not have a...
 A daily, a weekend, a weekly rental in our property. We already struggle with some transients in the neighborhood. I think the mayor lives close to our neighborhood. We have the park that the path goes right through our backyard. We have a homeless problem there. Now it's like we're moving the transiency right into our neighborhood, right into these houses.
 My wife was here. We actually own two houses, one on Price Street and one on Boone. One of ours is a rental. We have a tenant in there that has been there for eight years. It's a single mother with her mother that lives with her. She's got a 10-year-old son. We don't know all these people, and she's across the street from where this short-term rental is going to be.
 we feel a sense of responsibility to her being a long-term member of our neighborhood and having basically the only young child in our neighborhood to try to keep our neighborhood a neighborhood of family owners people that are invested not people wanting to come in and not that there's anything wrong with that i went to a football game recently uh it just
 There are plenty of other places that people can stay when they come into town. I would encourage the Odie's, it's a beautiful house, to consider moving up here from Conway. Not that there's anything wrong with Conway. My son went to UCA. It's a beautiful town. There was an eight to zero vote at the planning commission to deny this. A planning commission where they approved some conditional use permits with, I thought the arguments were pretty good of those homeowners.
 But in our case, they decided not to approve this conditional use permit. Some of the planners were familiar with our neighborhood. I live right on a 90-degree angle. The roads are so narrow, there aren't sidewalks. Everybody walks in the street. We're going to be increasing traffic. We walk our pets on the streets. It's already a little bit dangerous, but we don't want to make it any more dangerous.
 I chose this neighborhood. I built my retirement home there. My wife got tired and had to leave, otherwise she'd stand up and correct me if I say anything wrong.
 We simply don't want a short-term rental. This doesn't have anything to do with the Odie's or anybody else that would buy that house. We simply don't want what's effectively a hotel in our neighborhood with people that come in for a day, two days, three days a week. And we might be shooting ourselves in the foot. Maybe we would meet some wonderful people over those two days.
 Where do we go? It's an old neighborhood. There are old houses. There are old and new combined together. Ruth, who just spoke, you guys, if you saw the HBO special, she's building a house where the trashman's house was blown up. It's just a charming, small, old neighborhood that we chose to move to. We built our home. I was hoping to retire there.
 I just don't want to let it get any more out of control.
 It was a spec home. It was bought and immediately put up for a rental. I don't know if the window's over to sell it. If the Odie's would like the family to move up from Conway, we would welcome them. And I wouldn't want to say anything to offend them. Because if they were to be our future neighbors, we have a close, tightly knit neighborhood. We'd be like family. Go out of town. People watch our houses. People watch our dogs. We take care of each other. Thank you, sir. Thank you, counsel. We also like to address this.
 Hello, Mr. Mayor, Council. My name is Robin Devine, 1000 West Boone Street, South Fayetteville, Parkdale Addition, Fayetteville. First of all, I would like to commend Mr. Odey-Ferrer following the rules of engagement regarding his application for conditional use permit type 2 short-term rental for 1616 price. However, the neighborhood has clearly spoken of disapproval regarding his request to the Planning Commission, which supported the neighbors unanimously in an 8-0 vote.
 in 2018 we as a neighborhood fought for and won a historical rezone for parksdale edition changing it from rmf 24 to neighborhood conservation single family resident two-story cap we worked very hard to create a neighborhood that we all wanted to live in and we still stand up and fight for it because we love where we live it is stated multiple times in ordinance 6079 parksdale addition to be rezoned to protect their historical character quality of life and to
 preserve the peace, health, safety, welfare of Parkdale and Central Edition residents and the citizens of Fayetteville. This is a neighborhood, a refuge from the busyness of the rest of Fayetteville. It is not a motel district. We are a neighborhood of homeowners and very long-term renters. The neighborhood is both conservative and radical for all the very same reasons. We know each other and each other's names. We know each other's vehicles. We know the names of the dogs and most of the cats.
 Guests and visitors comment on how calming and peaceful it is to visit here. We pick up trash, we aid the homeless in times of their need, in bad weather or flooding. We live and let live, we keep our noses on our own face, yet we always become aware when somebody's sick and needs a ride to the doctor or a hot meal or just a visit. We walk down the middle of the street because
 There are no sidewalks and we can. It's kind of fun to be an older person walking down the middle of the street. On a subconscious level, we are aware of the patterns of movement and sound and activity that are normal in this neighborhood.
 I know many people in Fayetteville who bemoan the existence of short-term rentals in their neighborhood. It is not so much the parking and the trash or the noise, not something they can call the police or city to complain to. It is the filling and emptying of people in short-term rentals, the sudden change in patterns of movement and sound and activity interspersed with days or weeks of empty silence.
 It is that repeated, irregular disruption over and over and over again that tears at the fabric of the peace, safety and well-being, leaving the neighbors in a heightened state of awareness, questioning, is that sound a threat or is someone moving in at 2 a.m. next door? I really don't know anyone who is pleased to have short-term rentals in their neighborhood. We certainly don't want any more here.
 This is not a motel district but an intact, viable neighborhood. Last night, ten of the homeowners signed a letter to the city council saying we do not want short-term rental type 2 in this neighborhood.
 I ask the members of the council to please consider the vote for peace, health and safety and welfare of the residents of Parksdale addition and to deny 1616 price from becoming a short-term rental. Help us preserve neighborhood conservation as a desirable and peaceful place to live. For the record, yesterday was the very first time after two years of the Odie's owning the house that I met this young man, Mr. Odie.
 And there was a guy named Michael that had been living there for about a year or so. And he became part of our neighborhood. And he only got moved up because they wanted to put an Airbnb there. And I would welcome you all to move into the neighborhood. It's a great, great neighborhood. Keep the remarks. OK. I would welcome them to move into the neighborhood. But it's also a little odd that yesterday was the very first time I saw any of those. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Another person in Lexington, Kentucky described the process as the long-term headaches of short-term rentals. Why? Why do these short-term rentals in residential neighborhoods elicit such responses? The answer is found in asking the question of what is a neighborhood. So I Googled it. What is a neighborhood?
 a district, especially one forming a community within a town or a city. Wikipedia weighed in, a geographically localized community within a larger city, town, suburb, or rural area. If you want to build community,
 buy or rent a house to live, come on. We will welcome you. Our community will expand. These are not just houses to us. These are our homes. This is not just a plot of land a building sits on. This is a residential neighborhood. This is our neighborhood.
 A woman in Atlanta, Georgia, who had grown weary of the gentrification that was sweeping through her neighborhood, posted a sign in her yard that read, we full, go home.
 I respectfully ask you to uphold the unanimous decision of the Fayetteville Planning Commission to deny a conditional use permit to 1616 South Price. Please do not let the sign in the yard two doors down read vacancy. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening.
 As somebody who's served in public seat for many years in my previous town, I'd like to thank you guys because I know what you go through. Believe me, I don't know how you do it. Really, Bill. I moved here a year ago. My wife and I moved here a year ago, and we chose a house at 1626 South Price Avenue, and I'm Bill Hyman, because of the neighborhood. We first visited the neighborhood with the real estate agent. Four neighbors came out.
 and greeted us. Amazing. The second time we went there, six neighbors came out. It was incredible. It's a real neighborhood. I've lived all over the world, traveled a great deal, never encountered a thing like that. So we moved there because of the neighborhood. We don't want a hotel next to us, and a Rose by any other name is still Rose.
 and when you have a short-term rental you have a hotel that's what it is people in and out on a regular basis and that does disrupt the neighborhood no matter what anybody says and you can put in quiet after 10 o'clock if you want but guess what without somebody standing there or living in that house and enforcing that that's not going to apply you know that i know that um anyway i just wanted you to know that i moved into fayetteville we moved into fayetteville my wife and i
 because primarily of the greeting that we got by the neighbors of Price and Boone and Nelken and all the neighbors around. It's just amazing. You should come out and sit on my front porch and watch the traffic on the street, the foot traffic on the street, the people walking their dogs, the bicycles coming by. And with somebody who doesn't know the neighborhood driving in and out,
 you don't know what that's going to do to that particular aspect of our neighborhood so i like all of my neighbors request that you uphold what the planning commission said and did because it is the right decision for this neighborhood this is a unique place let's preserve it let's keep it neighborhood conservation thank you very much um excuse me i didn't hear your name oh bill hyman bill okay thank you william
 Who else would like to address this? Good evening. My name is Colt Odie. I am the applicant's brother. I live at 3620 West Dinsmore Trail. I want to address some of the neighbors. You know, I think what they're saying is very powerful and we should listen. You know, it speaks volume to their concerns and they're valid. You know, I definitely don't want to downplay that by any means.
 I do want to kind of speak on some of the comments that were made though, so let me know what kind of walkthrough those. My brother moved here with every intention of staying here when we bought the house. You know, he wanted to be close to me and our sister and our family that lives throughout Arkansas, but he had a health issue that required him to go back to Utah, and he did that for a year.
 and why that was going on and seeking recovery, he had a tenant come in. The tenant was a fantastic young man, very well-spoken young man. Since then, he's taken a job in Austin, Texas, very close, planning on coming in and out quite often. That speaks to my next point there is the legacy. This is not a capital project for him or us. It's not a way to stream revenue.
 It is just kind of the timing of events while he is finding a way in life and to come back to Fayetteville. So let's kind of talk about that. You know, my family comes up here quite often. My dad and mom are here tonight. My sister and her husband come up often. We have family in Missouri, Iowa, Texas. They all come up here and they all look for a place to stay. Well, this house is a platform for them to stay in. It's a beautiful home. It should be occupied, right? It's a blessing and it should be used.
 So that kind of addresses the use for it. It's going to be a family property. It's not a revenue stream for us. But, you know, the thing about here and be is that it is a platform for other families to come and enjoy it. So they should. It's a beautiful home. It should not say pick it when we aren't using it. But our full intention is to use it and to respect what the community has. I mean, who doesn't want a neighborhood like that that cares, right? They're talking about the homeless population. They're talking about streets, right? That's powerful things that we should listen to and that we are.
 so thankful to have those kind of neighbors. Now, we hope to, you know, grow with them and learn with them and, you know, share the same concerns they do. So don't think that we're distant. I don't want you guys to portray that. We are very active in this community. I know my wife and I, my family and I, we are very active. Thank you.
 i just hope that you guys can kind of see that from this lens and this whole process is new so it's kind of a landmark thing and you know appreciate your guys this time and i think the conners and the brewers mr hyman they're all great people so you should listen to what they have to say but hopefully you can see it from our side as well thank you good evening thank you anybody else okay i'm gonna bring you back to the council this isn't the peelers resolution so
 What conversations would you like to have? I think that if this were a traditional type 2 short-term rental where we had an owner who was absent 100% of the time and just rented it long distance, I would be against this. But to me, this sounds operationally more like a type 1. So I think that this is why we look at situations like this as a case-by-case scenario.
 The fact that the family is going to be using this the majority of the time and they're going to be renting this out occasionally to help cover the mortgage, that makes sense to me. So I will be in support of this.
 I guess I'm having trouble seeing how this is fundamentally different than a lot of the other ones that we probably already approved. You know, I used to have a storage container on the Levi storage, so I've driven by this a whole lot. I don't feel like it's.
 drastically different than other neighborhoods I would agree that the neighborhood is more active but I think denying this based on the neighborhood being active sounds arbitrary and capricious if there's not something fundamentally different about this one versus ones that we voted on before
 So hopefully I can hear something from my fellow council members that can show me that this is somehow different Other than the neighborhood, but fundamentally this one being different itself I don't I don't see it. So yeah. Yes, so Thank You Jonathan and everyone for coming out yesterday and Robert and Colt was it Colt?
 Yes, super helpful because then we were able to have a conversation so that was great and it was just snowing like crazy. So this is unique. So let me so you can literally walk to the baseball stadium. You can kind of walk to the stadium.
 And so my great concern here is that once we start one in that little wonderful modest affordable housing neighborhood,
 I could see the whole thing just becoming Airbnb'd out. Now we know because we're talking about the caps and everything that that's probably not gonna be possible, but I'm just concerned for that situation from the perspective of stock of modest housing in Fayetteville and then how easy it is to get to the games and all of the things that we know that people come to Fayetteville to enjoy.
 So, you know, it's a balance. One of the things that I do want to commend the ODE family is that they have chosen to go around being very open about their Airbnb. We know that as we've heard from all these conversations, there are a lot of people that have not. And so I just want to thank you for going through the process and being, you know, visible and having the conversation with the neighbors.
 But I have grave concern because we are running out of affordable housing stock and this is such a wonderfully modern neighborhood. So we just approved a hotel.
 And so now we'll have hopefully more places for people to stay soon, not tomorrow and not tonight. And I really wish that for the family that they could keep the home without having to Airbnb it. But I understand costs, and so you kind of want to figure out how you're going to afford the situation. So I appreciate that.
 I know this is before I came into office, but the Parkstall group, they worked really, really, really incredibly hard. It was before my time to preserve their neighborhoods. Things happened and I can't even tell you, go into the details, but Jonathan touched on it barely.
 to preserve their neighborhoods. So they're just, they've invested enormous amount of time and energy and they're gonna basically be coming up by the thousand cuts to fight every Airbnb, they just don't want them.
 So what I'm asking myself is like, how do we, how do we go through that? Do we just say none in an overhead conversation, none by the boundary because those are the two things that I've proposed to them. That's what I, what I'm hearing from my constituents. And I, and so I'm like trying to figure out what it is that is the best way to do it. So I've asked them to kind of come together and figure out what it is that they want. Um, and if there was room for like one Airbnb, um,
 You know, you know the ODs so could that could that work right? But if you but it literally if there's no room for nothing Then you know that is that's might be what we need to do with neighborhood conservation. So that's kind of where I am right now everybody I've had a conversation with the with the residents of Parkdale and I really appreciate them their advocacy and their their
 communicating and bringing this concern to Sonia and myself and I echo everything that you've said and so I'm really value what my constituents say and wanting to make sure that we address the Housing shortage. There are a lot of concerns here. But as Sonia said, I'm I'm concerned that if
 we could potentially open up a can of worms that could really negatively impact the neighborhood. So I'm on the fence, but I'm not on the fence, but I'm going to be, I won't be in favor of this.
 Okay, so Mr. Mayor, you know, I really everybody said this before, but I'm going to say it again. I really appreciate everybody coming out and this this neighborhood does come out in force and they they really participate in shaping their little part of the world right there.
 important thing that we have going on in Fayetteville. We have lots of people that really are engaged in their neighborhoods. Some of the things that concern me are, it's one thing to put, you know, restrictions on, write restrictions in an Airbnb.
 advertisement, but I don't really know, I mean, I use Airbnb a lot. I've never gotten a bad review. Of course, I'm not a big party person either. I don't go to places and have 15 cars parked on the street and that sort of thing. But I don't know how you enforce that until it's already happened.
 And then you file a complaint with the city. So that's how that process works. And if our process works on that end, then you get enough complaints and somebody loses their business permit to have an Airbnb.
 So, I'm a little concerned about that part of it. But I do completely and fully understand that this family has gotten this house, they want to hang onto it if they can. You know, whatever reasons, they had health issues that had to be dealt with, someone had to take a job somewhere else, they'd love to hang onto this house and they probably sat down at their dining room table and talked it out.
 and figured how they could all, well, we could come up here and visit, and we could do this, and we could keep the house, but we could maybe Airbnb it and help pay the mortgage a little bit. So I fully appreciate that as well. I'm not really decided on how I'm going to vote on this yet because I think there's, you know, just because if this family doesn't own this house, it doesn't immediately become affordable housing. It just doesn't.
 It's not going to go back to 1980 prices. It's not. And they could rent it to someone for, one woman said, we want families, we want people to come here and live and own houses, well, they might rent it to someone who would live
 The gentleman that said they had people that lived in their rent house for eight years, but they might not own the house. So there's a lot of things being said that I'm not really in agreement with. And one is that if we automatically do away with the Airbnbs, we're going to have affordable housing. Those are not always the same thing.
 So, I'd love to hear from a couple more of my fellow council members and see what their perspective is, but I am really listening a lot to the people from that, that represent that ward. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, I'm going to tag on to what Holly said in that we've had Type 1 applicants, Type 2 applicants. This is the first time we've had a Type 1 and a half applicant, and I just have to
 make a second comment and that is this is the second time we've had some of the most civil discourse that can happen in democracy with the previous conditional use permit applicant and how remarkably sophisticated and courteous the community behaved and
 And that's what we're witnessing again, whether you're the owner or you're in the neighborhood. And that to me is an absolutely remarkable quality. And I feel privileged to be here tonight and to have witnessed that. So I would have one question for staff, and that is, in our months and months of type 2
 short-term rental discussion, we had had an outstanding number of type 2 Airbnbs that had not obtained licenses yet that could be impacting or bumping up against our 2% threshold. And I'm wondering if we've had any luck in reining in and getting to apply or kind of identifying
 what is theoretically our actual number of type 2 rentals at this time. Thank you.
 Mayor, I can take a stab at answering that. Yes and no. One thing that we've learned is there's a lot of churn in the Airbnb market, and I use that not necessarily as an industry term because people talk about it in real estate too. There's a lot of movement in and out of the market, and that's definitely something that we've come to realize, that there's a lot of Airbnb operators moving into the market at about the same rate that they're moving out of the market. And so that makes sense.
 getting properties into compliance, very challenging.
 And I'm not saying that to equivocate on my answer. I think definitively there are still a large number that remain unlicensed is the short answer. And then to the term in terms of probably several hundred, at least 200, possibly up to 300, based on the information we've been able to glean. Does that answer your question or is that adequate? No, no, no, that you're doing good. I'm just wondering how close we're getting
 to that 2% threshold if you consider the actuality of where we are. Gotcha, thank you. If the number of licensed, when it comes to the number of licensed type 2 short-term rentals, we are not near the 2% cap. However, if you include the ones that internet data suggests are out there, we may be butting up against that 2% cap.
 So Sloan, I think you asked the question, what is unique about Parksdale? Well, this neighborhood is amazing because they worked very, very hard to change their neighborhood from an RMF 40 to a neighborhood conservation. And they did that before we started implementing short-term rental regulations.
 And I think it was an oversight on our part that we did not really consider this unique neighborhood or this zoning type in our discussions.
 They already have one short-term rental in there already So they're already actually above the 2% if you confine it to I think 27 houses So this would put them well above that so I do think that we need to really consider their community They seem to be much more tight-knit
 than many other areas of our city and a much more defined neighborhood than many of our other neighborhoods that are kind of loose in their boundaries.
 I appreciate and I applaud everybody's civil behavior and generosity tonight. And thank you for being so well spoken and so compassionate with each other. But given the unique circumstances of this neighborhood and the
 the sort of leaking of our short-term rental system that we have right now that needs, I think some pretty significant modifications. I probably will not be supporting this application tonight. Thank you. Jonathan, I have a question. If this is not rented out by the night, if it's rented out by the month, do they have to apply for anything if they wanted to rent it out monthly?
 The shorter answer is no. The more detailed answer is we define short-term rentals as anything rented out on a basis of less than 30 days. That's considered a short-term rental. Anything else would be a long-term rental. Okay, so they could still, if they wanted to, use rented out so many months out of the year and could not have to be here at all tonight. If they wanted to rent it out at least 30 days at a time.
 That's correct. Yes, if leases were written on a month by month basis as opposed to daily or weekly Okay. All right. Thank you. Oh So far actually nobody's answered my question It's about that unit of housing
 What makes this unit of housing? Fundamentally different than other units of housing not the neighborhood now if we want to start banning certain neighborhoods from having them that needs to be the discussion and I
 a lot wider discussion then let's stop it at this one applicant and not all of them uh and that's where uh my concern is that there's nothing fundamentally different about this house than in another neighborhood where we may have agreed uh so that that's my concern um
 It seems like we're having a discussion that should be about the whole city or neighborhoods or something of that nature And not kind of arbitrary If everyone's spoken, I'm I move that we go ahead and Okay, I would love to support this I think that the family has a great business model and a great plan but again if you look in work to a
 There are modest neighborhoods that have been destroyed since the last 12 years. I was thinking the area over around Hendricks off of Garland. And by allowing a lot of rentals and a lot of higher density, that was a tight-knit neighborhood. And it no longer is the neighborhood that it was. And there's not much affordable housing left over there.
 So, I think that that's a good model for me to see the impact of something like this could have on the unity in a neighborhood. On the other hand, I do think that we have to seriously look at our, the way that we're managing the licensing for these rentals. I think it should be based on behavior more than supposition.
 And I think that we need to have a way to revoke licenses after so many complaints, or verified complaints. We don't have that. I also think that we need the caps either on a grid or on a neighborhood basis. Otherwise, the Airbnbs are all going to be concentrated in specific areas. And I think that we've already seen that. So I'm not going to support this.
 I'm going to stay with the original planning vote and the way that they looked at it. But most of this is because I think we need a lot more work on our,
 And so, we're going to have to ask our ordinance to be sure that we review all these problems that we've had since we brought this up into handle. One are caps, and should they be citywide or should they be neighborhood or in a grid? Another one should be a behavior-based ruling that would in some way
 I just think we have a lot of work to do in this area, and I can't support it. And I also like neighborhood preservation, too. We can't lose our neighborhood identity. Okay. Sorry. I just wanted to move. So just to confirm, we need to move. If I want to go ahead and move that we...
 vote is that what I need to do well if you believe the City Council is ready to vote and you just make a motion to pass the resolution but and that would be to grant this conditional use and if you look at the form that was presented to you it says with the following conditions and there's some lines there and they're all blank at this point in time so
 If you're going to vote it down, you don't have to worry about those lines, but if you're going to approve it, you might want to put in the conditions that were offered by the applicant. That's up to you. Can we put those conditions in there? Someone could make a motion to amend the resolution to include all of the conditions that were offered by the applicant's attorney.
 I think I want to go ahead and move that we go to the vote because I want to see if people want to approve or deny. I don't want to necessarily
 Okay, if it's approved, I guess, if you want to put conditions in, then you could move to reconsider and then try to put them in and people will vote for that. But if it's approved, it's approved. Is somebody wanting to move to add them? I would move to amend to add the conditions as stated by the attorney tonight. Second. And then when we vote on it, because if it gets approved, then you can't add anything to it. Okay, so let me get this straight. You're going to...
 put an amendment on the appeal. Yes, as the following conditions that the resolution says, and then those would be as stated by Robert representing the owner. And the first thing we got to do is vote on the appeal to see if we had... You have to vote on the amendment first before... I mean, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We need to vote on the amendment.
 can i ask a clarifying question do we have those um conditions that robert rhodes voiced do we have those in writings no we do have them on tape okay so and maybe he'll give them to me in writing but i'll listen to the tape in case he forgets any okay so the amendment is to add what mr rhodes is proposing
 Mayor, may I ask Mr. Williams a question, Mayor? Yes. I'm curious, does that, as written, does the resolution include the conditions of approval that were proposed by staff to the Commission as well? There were nine conditions that staff was recommending with the conditional use permit. I think that's a good point, and so far that motion doesn't include that. I would like to include staff's recommendations as well. Okay. Second.
 With the amendment? Okay. I think that's a friendly amendment to your amendment, so now... So now we have one amendment. So we've got a pair of amendments. Back down to one amendment. One amendment, but we're adding on the staff's recommendation. Okay, everybody got that? Okay. Kara, would you please go over? Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inyon? Yes. Yes.
 Weedeker yes Scroggins yes Bench yes yes so now you have the amended resolution okay I move we approve the resolution oh is that already well okay it's an appeal but
 It will be just whether or not to approve the resolution. If you vote yes, then you're approving the appeal and the resolution granting the conditional use with the conditions you just amended on. With all the amendments attached to it. Okay. So no vote is to uphold the Planning Commission? No, yeah, no vote would be to uphold the Planning Commission decision. I just wanted to be sure we had that all. Yes. Thank you.
 Okay. Caravans, please call the line. Just to clarify, I only heard Councilmember Hertzberg move to approve. Was there a second? Second. Thank you. Okay. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? No. Whitaker? No. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. No.
 the resolution fails okay all right now we have c3 is everybody okay or do you need a break or wait i'm ready for a break you need a break yeah okay okay let's go ahead and get started all right we have another appeal
 A resolution to grant the appeal of Council Members Holly Hershberg, Mark Kenyon, Sonja Harvey and Sloan Scroggen and approved conditional use permits CUP 2022-0071 for short-term rental at 2352 West Houston Street. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor.
 This property is located probably a little bit northwest of what many would consider central Fayetteville. It's about a quarter mile or so northwest of Asbell Elementary, a block or two south of the new police department and fire station located at Dean and Porter. More specifically, it's just east of the intersection of Porter and Houston.
 on a dead end street that's characterized by mostly by several duplexes.
 The building in particular that's in question tonight is one half of a duplex. It's a townhouse. It sits on its own lot, own feet simple. It's a two-bedroom unit with one parking space in the driveway. The request, similar to the last item, is an appeal of the Planning Commission's denial for a Type 2 short-term rental conditionally used permit.
 Again, briefly, a type two short term rental, of course, is the one, the type where the property will be used predominantly as a short term rental as opposed to a long term rental or permanent occupancy by an owner.
 uh it's a little bit of background on the item again as i've just noted it's type 2 short-term rental so of course i had to go to the planning commission for conditional use permit it is part of a two-family dwelling because it is a townhome though it is not subject to one of our more finer grain caps as it relates to attached residential buildings
 There was a clause added to the ordinance during the startup period for properties that are own fee simple, whether it's condominium associations or townhomes like this. So it will not contribute to the building density cap. However, because of its zoning designation, which is a multifamily zoning designation where hotels and motels are not allowed, it does contribute to the citywide 2% cap.
 When evaluating the request, staff found that the two bedrooms in the unit do allow it to be used for six guests. So again, it's two guests per bed plus two for the unit. It does have two on-site parking spaces, one in the driveway, one in the garage you saw in the previous image.
 There is on-street parking allowed on Houston and some of the adjacent streets, although not Porter. And the property is, or the applicant intends to continue use of the property for solid waste on the property for using residential carts and containers.
 Staff finds that the request is compatible and we are recommending in favor of it. The Planning Commission, however, denied it. It was a mixed conversation and a split vote of five to three. As I believe the applicant will touch on, their primary intent with this unit is to be able to offer it as an ADA accessible unit, which is accessible.
 As I understand it, a very rare commodity in the short-term rental market. Those who attended the tour could probably comment on it as well, but there were a lot of efforts made during the unit's remodel following its borderline condemnation, as I understand it, where it has a zero entry entrance. I know Council Member Whittaker asked me about a ramp. There's no ramp because a ramp is not needed to enter the unit. The doorways all do meet the minimum 32-inch width.
 And additionally, I believe that the bath facilities actually go above and beyond what would normally be considered or required for an accessible residential unit in that they can be entered without, they can be entered, I'm sorry, a lot of loss for the correct vocabulary here, basically be entered without having to like lift your leg over something or enter through a door or something to that effect.
 Because of that, there was, that's predominantly what the three dissenting votes to the denial really hung their hat on, was that it is important to offer this kind of short-term rental opportunity. The five counts are,
 commissioners that supported denial though felt that there was a due amount of weight owed to what is a unique aspect of this neighborhood. There is a large number of residents immediately to the east that are members of the Lifestyles Program, which if you're not familiar with that, is a nonprofit that is intended to support
 adults with disabilities and help them take a part in typical life wherever possible. And the lead representative of Lifestyles spoke at the meeting opposed to this. And there were a few parents of residents in that neighborhood as well who spoke with concerns too. They felt that introducing a short-term realness area may introduce an unknown factor that could be concerning for people coming in and out.
 There are individuals who may bear a special consideration. So again, as a result, despite that back and forth between the Planning Commission, they ultimately did deny it by a vote of five to three. And it is here on appeal from the Planning Commission. And I'm happy to take any questions you may have. And I believe Kristen Wong-Opera is here to speak on behalf of the request. Thanks. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council?
 I'm so sorry. My name is Kristen Wallnaufer and I would like to thank you for listening today in this late hour. You guys have an impossible job. I was humbled to have Councilwoman Harvey and Turk come over yesterday in the snowstorm, mind you. I'm the owner of House Wallnaufer LLC, an Arkansas native and a graduate of the University of Arkansas.
 My rental is a fully furnished rental and it's in our crossroads with my grandmother currently living there and she is on the waiting list for a nursing home. That could be tomorrow or six months from now, I'm not sure. That instability really affects my bottom line and I would love to have the opportunity to at least try my hand at short-term rental business because as you know most
 Landlords require a one-year lease. I'm very flexible. She's on month-to-month terms, but it could end at any day. So I would like to say in general, I agree with a lot of things y'all said about short-term rentals, the need to have more understanding about where they should be. I fully align and I appreciate this process. I don't wanna be hated in my neighborhood. I love this neighbor. I'm not gonna say if it's a neighborhood, I would just say my neighbors, my two neighbors I know. It's mostly rentals in the area, but anyway.
 Short-term rentals create income for small business owners like me and they also create income locally via lodging taxes. If they're not successful, if I'm not successful, I'll be closing up shop and renting long-term. I have a feeling that's what happens when you talk about the transiency of short-term rentals coming and going. So if you believe that people are always good and...
 always good, then you're going to believe that short-term rentals are always good. But if you believe that people are always up to no good, then you're going to believe short-term rentals are up to no good. So whether the glass is half empty or half full, it's a matter of opinion. But today I really want to speak on the logic and the reasoning and the facts.
 I have listened to all of these appeals with real tangible issues like flooding and drainage and funding and the number of cars. These are serious issues. The main reason for my denial was completely intangible. I quote from one commissioner, it feels like a bad idea.
 This is a matter of what is the state of a mental psyche of someone who stays at a property for a term of less than 30 days. That is why, that's really what you're voting on here. Actually it's for my unique property and I'm going to tell you why.
 If you research search term rental for handicapped, you won't find one, not just in Fayetteville, but worldwide. It's a global problem. So when I started to check the boxes to build my little website on the back end, Airbnb was so excited they sent a representative from a company called Matherport to virtually scan my space and confirm how handicapped I was. Let's go to that next slide. I did a lot of that work myself.
 I threw that in there. I don't want to bore you with all the statistics, like the fact that there are 25.5 million Americans who have a travel limiting disability, and that's according to the U.S. Department of Transportation. We all know that. That's why one out of every 25 parking spaces are handicapped. One out of every 25 hotels must be accessible. We have bathrooms, elevators, everything. One planning commissioner before voting no said, well, there are handicapped hotel rooms.
 Why are we going backwards, not forwards? Where are the 20 plus somewhat short-term rentals that are handicapped in Fayetteville? Have you ever thought, I just want to ask you, have you ever thought about this before seeing my appeal? Not only have I thought about this, I actually did it. I'm a year ahead of you. I have made my place extremely nice. I've over-improved it to attract extremely nice people. One planning commissioner said, well, you just don't know who you're going to get in there. And then they voted no.
 But even if you background check someone, have an interview with them, and they sign a thing saying they'll not have a dog like the previous owner did, a previous renter did, they condemn the property with years of animal feces piling up in the place. But short-term rentals can actually vet renters with real reviews from previous hotel stays.
 short-term real estate, VRBO hosts, VBR looks, I can't say it, VRBO lets hosts discriminate against age, just like the rental car companies do. You know, there's all these things we can do, click no parties, I don't know. And then, but note, there are also four large town homes across the street from me who house a dozen college kids coming and going and their vehicles and their friends, strangers, and they have parties, yet they're not seen as a nuisance or a threat to the handicapped residents.
 Even this resident who owns a moving company who permanently stores large moving trucks on the street, blocking visibility with a half a dozen employees, strangers, and their cars coming and going, loitering in the streets at various times during the day is not seen as a nuisance or a threat to the handicapped residents.
 My two neighbors directly adjacent to me, one on my right, the only actual, by the way, these are the only actual homeowners in the entire area. This is rental palooza. No one brings their trash in. No one mows.
 Anyway, so he actually mowed for me while I was in a wheelchair myself because I broke my leg. And the other one who shares a physical wall with me, and we share text and baked goods, and she visits my grandmother. That's how close we are. They both wish me well for my short-term rental. All that to say, I'm aligned with the neighborhood in ensuring I need to rent trustworthy, non-party-going, respectful individuals as I want this house to be for my children when they attend the U of A.
 I was shocked that a representative from Lifestyles spoke out against me as I thought we were on the same team I had been in mind when I even was doing the renovation. So it was kind of personal because I want to be liked. So I was blown away that someone on the planning commission would make a decision based on a vague theoretical, glass is half empty assumptions based on zero facts. I don't understand how someone staying on my property for a period of less than 30 days
 verses 31 poses a threat to anyone's mental, emotional, physical well-being, regardless if they're handicapped or not. So we're not talking about cars here. We're talking about a handicapped person being attacked by someone at my place, I guess. I don't know what we're talking about. I believe my strongest logic is following. The handicapped residents who live in independent housing nearby have been deemed able to live independently among society. If they were unable to do that, to live
 in society, they would live on site on Lifestyles campuses to receive more care or with a family member. Going to the mailbox is not dangerous for them. They are capable of living in society.
 If a lifestyle participant were to walk from their residence near me to the lifestyle facility instead of riding the lifestyle bus, note I've only seen one resident do this, it's over a quarter of a mile away and they would have exposure to many hundreds of residents. It's all rentals, either because they're outside walking their dog or riding the raised back transit stop. So whether our residence is deemed short or long makes no difference to the exposure to society these handicapped individuals already possess.
 I spoke with a representative at the Fayetteville Police Department to gather statistics to see how dangerous short-term rentals can be per police events reports. That's different than just common noise complaints or cars, whatever. And there wasn't any statistics. And I hope that's because it's not an issue that warrants the resources to put into the research. But I would encourage you guys to do so. We do have real facts. We need real facts here. But there's over 500 Airbnbs operate every night in Fayetteville without a peep.
 So, I did, however, go to the next slide, found an alarming amount of crime in my vicinity, and my husband said, I think it's one more. Let's see. One more, and we'll go back to that one.
 My husband said we need to sell. This is alarming. Over 500 police reports in the last five years within a quarter of a mile of my residence. This is a lock your car and lock your house area. There's even a registered sex offender whose backyard touches Lifestyles' yard. I'm asking Lifestyles to work with me, erasing the notion that strangers are too dangerous and risky to handicap individuals.
 As a family who ties 10% of our gross income, I plan to give my 10% of the proceeds from this SDR to the handicap-minded nonprofits.
 There are so many good ones to choose from. My brother is a veteran, so that's already one in my mind because we have so many friends that are wounded veterans. Maybe I could state in my profile that a percentage of the proceeds go to Lifestyles. And I think that would be an empowering way to introduce my renters to the local handicap nonprofit just down the way. In closing, Houston Street is a public street that Lifestyles does not own.
 There is no homeowners association. It's not neighborly. It's not, you know, there's no one talks to each other. It's, there's no, there's no community there. I respect that Lifestyles representatives stood up to voice their concerns who have no voice. That is so important. And I also respect that they serve as a proxy to the Lifestyles board who wishes to shut down all short-term meals in the area.
 I just feel like lifestyle swayed the planning commission to view the glass is half empty So if you push through that vagueness They are actually stating that someone who stays in my home for a period of less than 30 days poses imminent harm Not to all residents, but only to handicapped individual individuals living on the street. Thank you. Thank you for letting me go longer. I appreciate it Okay What questions does the council have for the applicant or staff? I mean does the council members that I?
 brought to the appeal have anything they want to add? Yes. Yes, I brought this to the council to consider because I disagreed with the planning commission's denial. I think that this specifically illustrates just like the last application, the importance of a case by case situation and looking at things case by case.
 This is a handicap accessible STR which we don't have very many of, if any, and I think that this is an appropriate placement next to Lifestyles because it is very aligned with that mission. So I think that this would be appropriate and I am very happy to support this resolution. Thank you. Okay. I just want to echo what Holly said. Well do we have any questions for the staff or the applicant?
 Maybe I could just make a comment. I really appreciated the tour last night. It looks like you remodeled with great care and thoughtfulness about how you were going to do this and how it would flow. And I just want to commend you for that. And it does seem to be a very good fit with the neighborhood. There's a consistency there that I really want to applaud. Thank you.
 Same here. I really appreciate your, I kept seeing the word, making it equitable and accessible. And so I really appreciate that. And then even willing to give a share of your proceeds to Lifestyles. I'm sure that they'll appreciate that. My only question, Jonathan, and I'm
 I know you said this, but I missed it. Why did the Planning Commission, why did they deny this?
 the crux of the conversation i think revolved around the commission's concerns for the uh residents that are in the lifestyles program that are also living in that area again there were it wasn't just lifestyles that spoke with concerns at work there were at least i think two parents that wrote in to planning staff with their concerns as well but and there was a similar request
 In location, that was denied recently. It was distinct in that it did not, at least to our staff's awareness, offer an ADA-accessible element to it. The council may recall there was an applicant, Mr. Gunn, who had solicited support for an appeal, which ended up not getting traction. Okay. Was it the same? I'm sure it was, but I'm just...
 I'm curious, the presentation that you showed us, did the Planning Commission see that and see how compatible that is to lifestyles? It was generally the same presentations. I often, I guess I'm giving away a trade secret, I largely use the Planning staff's presentations and then modify them for you all based on to include Planning Commission information and vote information. So the content was largely identical, yes. Okay.
 I didn't have any media. Sorry about that. Thank you, thank you. Anything else? I have a question here. I didn't even lost it off my iPad here just now. So does Lifestyles own the duplexes that they rent or do they just rent them for people?
 On behalf of people or? From what staff looked at following the previous denial, not this item, it does appear that they are owned by individuals and lifestyles either contracts or leases from them. I may be incorrect in that. Okay. I was just wondering because
 I mean everyone else that comes out is an owner, you know, that says this is, you know, as an Airbnb in my neighborhood is threatening to my neighborhood. So I was wondering if they owned them. It's a series of LLCs and none of them are at least clearly lifestyles. They all have names that do not indicate lifestyles.
 have we done public comment i'm fixing to when everybody's done okay now we'll take some public comment uh everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any councilman stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that you have on zoom susan
 Well, 10 seconds ago I had Susan Jensen and she just dropped her hand, so nobody, Mayor. Okay, is anybody in the chamber like to speak? Susan Jensen came back. Well, there you go. Ms. Jensen, you'll have to unmute. Okay, can you hear me now? Yes. Go ahead. Thank you.
 My name is Susan Jensen. I live at 24309 Clubhouse Lane, Worcester, Oklahoma. I own half of a duplex that is located on Linda Joe, which is close to Houston. In fact, Houston is the ingress and egress road to Linda Joe.
 My son Andrew, who has Down syndrome, resides in that unit. It is my understanding about Lifestyles because he is a client of Lifestyles. Lifestyles owns some units. Some units they sponsor individuals to live in. In addition, another parent of a Lifestyles client owns two duplexes, both of which they have renovated and one of which they have done extensive renovations on.
 Lifestyles in this area is a community. I can tell you, I am from Florida originally. I live in Oklahoma now. And I look throughout the country for something for my son when he became an adult. It is an absolutely tremendous program. It is not that he lives on his own by himself.
 He has to have supervision. Yes, he lives in a unit, but he can't do everything for himself. Is he taken advantage of by other people? Yes, he can. The area that Lifestyles has built there has become a true community where people look after each other.
 I believe the appellate spoke about the moving company that's down there. We are working together to try and stop that. We have not been able to get there together. I don't live there. I'm an attorney, and the other attorney who owns the other duplexes, we are going to try to work together to get that stopped. We want to improve the area and do it.
 Lifestyles has been willing to buy other of the duplexes live in the area. I think they would love to have the one that is at issue here. Moreover, that one would be so much more wonderful to provide a residence for someone who needs it, who needs it every day, and there is nothing for them. It would be absolutely wonderful.
 I went to the initial hearing on the unit that was located on Linda Jett. The two things we brought up were the type of individuals who would be renting that. The other was the traffic. The traffic on Houston is terrible. It is a very narrow street with all of these buildings, particularly the new buildings that have been built there.
 It is dangerous. My son has to walk it every day when he goes up there to take the bus to work. He works at the university. It is to add more traffic and more people who don't know what's going on, who aren't used to these individuals being there. My son has a 55 IQ. I think he does great for that. But it's true that most individuals do not necessarily know what's going on. It creates a hazard.
 When we dealt with the other unit, the Planning Commission was unanimous, unanimous that it should not be approved. I was unable to go to the hearing on this unit, but it is the same. And it would be so much more useful to the community to be used as permanent housing.
 I think before you do this, there's a lot that has been brought up here about the number of short-term rentals and that the city council is in the process of amending the ordinance.
 At this point, for this kind of community, nothing should be done until there is a fully considered ordinance on short-term rentals. If you do this short-term rental, then I guess you've got to do the other guy's short-term rental too, because it's essentially the same. So, I really appreciate your time and talking with me and hearing the other people have sent in their emails and,
 There were other individuals who would love to have been there tonight. They all had other commitments and could not be there. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else, Susan? No, sir. Okay. Does anyone like to address this on this topic in the chamber? No.
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Well, let's have some discussion. Mayor, before that begins, may I offer a quick point of clarification? I did look at the property records briefly just to double check that. It does look like seven units in the southern cul-de-sac are owned by Lifestyles. There's about 20 LLCs that I can't confirm who owns them or occupies them.
 I just had one closing comment. I think that when we're looking at accessibility, this doesn't just involve the environment, but it also involves opportunity. And I think that for individuals who require more accessible environments, they should also be able to participate in short-term rentals and be able to participate in that lifestyle and have somewhere to go if they're visiting. So if there are no further questions or comments, I vote to approve this resolution.
 Well, is there any other discussion? Yeah, I just want to point out it kind of appears that we have some organization that is asking us to encumber somebody else's private property so that they can buy it. That doesn't sit well with me.
 that argument doesn't really hold for me because that is a concern. So I will be voting for the conditional use here. Well, Holly did make a motion. I'll second that motion. All right, now let's go on. All right, anybody else have any other? Yes. Yeah, I just wanted to thank Kristin as well for hanging in there through the process. And I did enjoy the visiting with you and meeting your grandmother and your,
 And the family and we, it was very, you know, it's a very private space and she just let us kind of walk through. It's, I mean, the grandma was living there. And so I really, really appreciate it. And I guess we'll probably be doing this a lot more till we get things figured out. And this is also Christian's first business that she's launched. I just wanted to throw that out there as well.
 I had questions and concerns about the true ADA accessibility and so Jonathan I really appreciate that being confirmed. I was unable to make the tour. I would appreciate that Ms. Walnaufer is not paid by the word but she spoke as if she was being paid by the word. That's a lot of words in 10 minutes.
 I commend you for communicating everything that you wanted to communicate you're certainly a pleasantly persistent person even while overseas With your application. Thank you anybody else? Okay Mr. Mayor, I think I kind of have a procedural question. I want to ask the City Council we're just starting to do these short term rental appeals
 My suggestion would be in the future that we will include all of the Conditions that the planning department has Recommended to start with now doesn't mean you have to stay with theirs doesn't mean you can't change them or add something to it here It's blank again. And so I'd ask that you before you do any vote on the actual adopting of
 resolution or not to add all of the conditions that the Planning Department had placed upon this particular conditional use so do we need to amend that then to add well we have to amend the resolution because right now it's blank and my suggestion is going to be it's not going to be blank anymore if it's okay with you will include the planning departments conditions so that
 You don't have to amend it in the future if you don't want to. Okay, okay. So right now is the applicant aware of what the planning department conditions were? You may answer. I'm afraid to speak. I did not receive any communication on that, nor did I receive any public comment or any
 I can run through those if the council would like. They're fairly standard for short terminals at this point, unless there's one with a unique site condition, which this one staff did not feel it was. The first is a planning commission, in this case, city council determination of compatibility, which is always the baseline condition of any of our conditional use permits. The other remaining eight conditions are that a business license must be obtained. It must be obtained within one year.
 The number of occupants is limited by the bedrooms as ordinance indicates. Prohibits the use of the property for weddings, receptions, anniversaries, private parties. Again, something that is codified as well. There's a condition in there that you must use the unit. You may not bring an RV and park in the driveway and use that. Talking about the moving trash receptacles off of the street after it's used, which if any of y'all have ever
 heard complaints about short terminals that is a very common one and then the last two relate to not adding or Making sure you meet the the lighting ordinance Which is something we've seen of some short terminals and saw a lot of security lighting And that they won't install any signage that doesn't meet Fayetteville's sign ordinance So I would like to ask you the applicant if you are in agreement with all of these terms Come on up. Yeah
 Yes, I am in agreement and I did see Jonathan now that he spoke that I did see maybe it wasn't specific to my rental but I have seen that that has been said about short-term rentals in the past. Yes, I agree. Okay. All right. Thank you. I would like to amend the resolution to include staff's recommendations of conditions. I will second that. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go along with staff's recommendations. Correct? Yeah. Okay.
 any final comments let's vote herzberg yes barbie yes jones yes inion yes whedeker yes scroggen yes punch yes kirk yes okay so now we have the amended so i move we approve the amended resolution second okay any final comments from the council
 I do want to consider lifestyles and the concerns and I'm so glad that Miss, I have her name here somewhere.
 that spoke, Ms. Susan Jensen, who spoke on behalf of her son. And I do want to consider that as she's her son walks around in Fayetteville and I hope that he will be safe and I and I really think that it's a really incredible opportunity for other people who need accessible units to visit their accessible friends, friends who need accessible units. And so that's what's really exciting to me is I thought somebody could come and visit who
 be in a community already with other people who have accessibility needs. And I thought that was a cool community. So in a way, it's creating and expanding the community. So I hope that they can see it that way and offer an opportunity to grow and
 from that to see people and meet new people. I do Airbnb very frequently and they're very expensive in the general terms, you know, compared to a hotel. Where are my AirPods? They're, you know, going to be visited by people who have good access to means.
 They're very well-meaning people and I think I really believe this in general like people who are traveling They're well travel They want to get out and meet people and I think I think you'll find a good happy space if I wanted to take my child and my husband to a place where there were us people who had you know need to have special needs I would want that in in the description and I would love that and I would go outside and maybe say hi and that would attract me personally to the neighborhood and
 so I think there could be a positive spin to it and celebrate that wonderful part of that unique community so with that I'll be done. I'll just say that I echo Sonia's comments and perhaps that's something that you might add to your description of the property about the community that you're in and
 I think that would be more opening and maybe put the context in there about maybe driving slower and being more conscientious. So thank you again. Anything else? You know, Council, I just want to say one thing. This is the very reason why we really need to get a short-term rental ordinance complete. Yes. And we've said, you know, and, you know, we've gone how long on a couple of topics and we
 You know what I'm getting at here. I mean we started this thing back. I don't know how many years ago Jonathan Do you remember? About four years ago four years ago I was at a breakfast table with Don mark and he said let me show you this magazine there was like something like 398 of those things and they were just no controls on so we thought oh
 If they're going to run these things, they need to pay taxes too. Just the HMR taxes or whatever it was. So we started on this process, but I don't want us to go every couple weeks and have to spend an hour or two. Now I'm not saying I disagree with hearing everybody out and all the voices in the neighborhoods, but this is why we need to get a short-term rental done.
 an ordinance done. So. You know, we are, we're working on it. I know we are. We've been working on it and it's been, it's been. It's like a Cecil B. DeMille's movie. Yeah, it is. It's like the Ten Commandments here. But I think we'll get it worked out and we'll have, and if we don't get it worked out the first time, we'll work it out, we'll get it worked out the second time. Yeah, okay. All right, Caravage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Harvey yes, Jones yes Inyan yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes, yes Yes, okay. Thank you all let's go on to number four. I
 A resolution to approve a sub-recipient agreement with the Washington County Regional Ambulance Authority to provide funding from the American Rescue Plan Act in the amount of $757,917 for premium pay for essential workers and the purchase of power load stretcher systems for new ambulances and an ambulance remount.
 and to approve a budget adjustment. Chief. Good evening, Council and Mayor. So I went over this multiple times with you all about the funding impact from COVID, so I'm not going to go over it again unless you want me to. But Central EMS, they have struggled greatly, and this money will be put to good use. So have any questions? No, I know that Holly and I, Holly's on the committee and...
 I'm on the executive committee. As I said at the meeting, if we're going to be a world-class region, we've got to have a world-class ambulance service. I'm very familiar with them. So what questions do we have? Or the chief or anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one, Mayor. In case anyone in the chamber would like to speak on this. Okay. Okay.
 Bring back to the council. I moved to approve the resolution Second we have a motion second to approve the resolution any final comments from the council. All right care which please call the roll Just for recording purposes. I heard councilmember Scroggins make the motion and councilmember Hertzberg second Hertzberg Yes, RV. Yes Jones. Yes opinion
 Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay, number five.
 A resolution authorized by Mayor Jordan to sign a subrecipient agreement with Peace at Home Family Shelter for the expansion of the emergency shelter for survivors of domestic violence utilizing the American Rescue Plan HACC funds in the amount of $686,500 and to approve budget adjustment. Yes.
 I brought this forward, I was approached about possibly doing this and I cannot think of a more worthy institution in our community that provides such a valuable service.
 In the grand scheme of things, this is not, it's a lot of money, but then again, it's not so much money when you think about in the grand scheme of things. And what it will allow this entity to do is to increase their, you know, they'll remodel some, they'll, I guess it increases their space by 20%.
 And we're in a time where our community's growing, the need grows for this type of facility because our community grows. We've, you know, people have suffered through this pandemic and there's a lot of, maybe a little bit instability in people's jobs and community and that sort of thing. And this is just so needed. And if anybody has any questions for me, I'd try to answer them.
 I would like to turn it over to, sorry I've forgotten your name, but if it's okay, Mr. Mayor. Yes. Yes, I'm Eva Terry. I'm the Development Director with Peace at Home Family Shelter. I'm also at Redstone and Fayetteville filling in for our CEO, Teresa Mills, tonight.
 I think most of you are very aware of peace at home family shelter and who we are, but if you're not, we are a domestic violence shelter and service organization and we work with over a thousand people every year providing emergency safe shelter, legal services, housing assistance, mental health counseling, and support to help people flee violent homes and rebuild their lives in our community.
 Since the beginning of COVID, we have seen a 24% increase in calls for our services. This is a significant increase, and our team is working to do what we can to meet the needs of survivors in our community. But one area that we have the most demand for that we cannot meet is our emergency shelter capacity. Currently, we have 14 rooms with 14 bathrooms.
 that can be utilized by survivors for emergency short-term safe housing when they flee abuse and are looking to find safety before they can move on to new housing in the community or with friends or family members.
 Safe housing is important for survivors of domestic violence because homelessness and domestic violence are highly linked. The leading cause of homelessness for women in the United States is domestic violence and because of the unique dangers that domestic violence poses for survivors. Homicide rates increase dramatically after a relationship has ended and we know that
 These relationships can turn deadly. They can be very physically violent. We need safe spaces for survivors to go with their children. Peace at Home is one of those places. What we are proposing would result in a 20 percent increase in our capacity to provide emergency safe shelter for survivors of domestic violence in our community.
 We feel that not only is this a need for our community, as I said, we have more requests for shelter than we're able to fulfill, but it's also a good fit for ARPA because according to the final rule of the Department of Treasury, domestic violence survivors are specifically named as a population that's disproportionately impacted by COVID-19 and emergency safe housing is enumerated as an allowable expense for ARPA funds.
 we believe that this project if awarded we would be able to move forward very quickly on it um to open up these rooms to community members who need safe housing um as quickly as possible and it would help citizens of Fayetteville and i would welcome any questions about peace at home or the project from council thank you what questions do we have uh Eva thank you so very much uh for uh
 Telling the council how the program works. I will say this we have a
 the hospital we've we've referred patients to you all and so um it's good to know that we will be supporting you to do greater work i really respect the work that you do and working in the social work field you're absolutely right and so again thank you so very much and i i'm a big supporter and a big fan of your work because it's very necessary to all of us in Fayetteville thank you
 I would like to remind all the council members when we get ready to vote on this that this did rank extremely highly on our grading that our city staff, which there's, I don't know, Paul's still back there, I guess. No, it's okay, Paul.
 But it did rank, it ranked like I think number three or number four of all the projects we had requests for. So it ranks very highly in that regard as well. So one quick question. Do I remember reading that these would be family rooms and perhaps slightly different than your existing rooms?
 They would each have their own bathroom, which since we completed a renovation near the beginning of COVID or in the midst of it, all of our rooms now have their own bathrooms. So because before COVID, different families would potentially be sharing bathrooms. And we've changed our model so that each family has access to their own bathroom for public health and safety reasons and also to just make it a more welcoming and warm environment for families coming to shelter. All right.
 Let's take some public. You want to take some public? Okay. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on? Nobody on Zoom, Mayor. All right. Anybody else would like to speak in the chamber? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council.
 I appreciate all the emails I got about this and support. This is definitely needed. So on that, I move to approve the resolution. Second. Okay. Any final comments? Thank you, Council Member Bunch, for bringing this forward. Absolutely. Thank you, Sarah. I tell you, I think this is just a wonderful organization. You know what I always say, they give people a little bit of hope when they may not think they've got a prayer.
 They take in people that are scared, people that feel like they don't have anybody left and you give them a little hope. And as I read a comment one time, somebody said, we'd like to be dealers in hope. So thank you. Thank you for all that you do. Kara, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones?
 Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, that concludes our business. What announcements have we got? One announcement, Mayor. It's an exciting time. We're getting ready to kick off the holiday season. Friday night is flipping the switch of the lights of the Ozarks downtown on the square with a parade that starts at 6 o'clock. So everybody come on out and watch the lights.
 Mayor Jordan, I had an announcement. Just as a reminder, the Board Committee and Commission application deadline is November 28th at 5 p.m. Now, that usually ends on a Friday. It's actually going to end on a Monday this time because of the holiday. Okay. And don't forget to come out Saturday at 2 o'clock. Council Member Sonja and I will be hosting a tailgate event.
 Razorbacks beat Ole Miss at 2 o'clock and so we're asking all of you to come out and enjoy the fun and fellowship and everything else good and eat some pizza. I believe we have ordinance review over the short-term renewals tomorrow. Good. Thank you. We'll get to do that fun again tomorrow.
 And one last fun note, those of you that are going to be on the council in 2023, you've got to take that eight hours of the water training before the end of the year. So you've got to call them and you can't immediately go online and start your training. They've got to schedule you. So this is a great opportunity.
 Just a heads up. And you all, on that note, thank you, Council Member Turk. Look in your email for a note from Tim Nyander. That's who sent you the training. I'm glad you brought that up because I was confused by that because I thought it was people on the water and sewer committee. Okay, anything else? Or John?