I'd like to call the City Council meeting of November 17th 2020 to order there. Would you please call the roll? Kenyon here Eddie Scroggins President Bunch here Man Kyle smear Patera's here Marsh here
 Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, welcome everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Beville City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. Thank you.
 I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan, and I'm present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Ted Williams, city attorney, Kara Paxton, city clerk, treasurer, Susan Norton, chief of staff, Keith Macio, IT director, police chief Mike Reynolds, fire chief Brad Hardin, finance director Paul Becker, and two representatives from the federal IT department.
 City council members, city staff, and the public participating online or by phone. Other than those of us who see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Bedville, and we have provided many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting, including contacting city council members, city clerks, office, or city staff prior to the meeting.
 viewing through Federal's government channel online or the City's YouTube channel. Joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer.
 Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment. I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record.
 Public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item They may wish to address being open for public comment Each speaker has one turn speak each speakers allowed five minutes broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote
 If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker to have additional time and an unsigned-up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Now let us begin. Tonight on the Consent Agenda, Number 1, Approval of the November 5, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to authorize a contract with Garver LLC pursuant to RFQ 20-03 to provide on-call aviation engineering services for a period of one year with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms and to approve task order one in an amount not to exceed $20,000. Number three, a resolution...
 to authorize acceptance of a matching grant award from the 2020 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program in the amount of $21,200 for the replacement of body armor vests for federal police officers and to prove budget adjustment. Number four, a resolution to approve federal police department policies 1.2.3
 bias based profiling prohibited 22.2.8 military activations and 49.1.1 peer to peer support program. Number five, a resolution to authorize the destruction of certain records shown on the attached affidavits pursuant to relevant sections of the Arkansas code related
 to maintenance and destruction of accounting and other city records number six a resolution to approve the purchase of a truck lift from mohawk resources ltd in the amount of thirty seven thousand four hundred and eighty eight dollars and eighty six cents plus any applicable taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source will cooperative purchasing contract for use by the fleet operations division
 Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 20-82 and to authorize a contract with Second Nature Landscapes Incorporated in an amount of $134,397.50 for the installation and maintenance of trees along Ruppel Road and O'Wire Road to approve a project contingency in the amount of $13,000 and to approve the budget adjustment. Number eight.
 a resolution to award bit number 20-80, an authorized contract with Legacy Construction Management Incorporated in the amount of $378,794 for construction services associated with additions, repairs, and replacements,
 at restrooms in multiple city parks and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $37,236. Number nine, a resolution to approve change order number seven to the federal public library expansion project contract with Crossland Construction Company Incorporated to shift $332,000 of the library scope of work to the city and to approve budget adjustment.
 A resolution to repeal resolution number 245-20 and to award bid number 20-71 and to authorize a contract with Goodwin and Goodwin Incorporated in the amount of $288,326.10 for the construction of the Palmer Avenue drainage improvements project to approve project contingency in the amount of $43,240 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 drainage bond project. Number 11.
 A resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign an agreement with Design Workshop Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 19-03 in an amount of $185,739 for the development of a new 10-year park system master and strategic plan and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,000. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Carabinieri, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turr? Yes. Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Moving along to unfinished business.
 We have a resolution to approve the conveyance of a permanent access easement to Markham Hospitality Owner LLC and Markham Residential Owner LLC across real property owned by the city of Federal. This was tabled indefinitely. We will have to have a motion and a second to take it off the table. And so. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to take item B1 off the table.
 Um, Caravage, please call Rob. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 Okay. Garner, I believe. Mr. Mayor, before we get to Garner, as I notified the council a week ago by email, I wanted to add one word to the access easement to specify that it's not exclusive.
 I think it would have been interpreted as not exclusive anyway, but I just want to make it crystal clear that the access that we would be granting to the applicant would not be exclusive and yet would so that we would still be able to do it and also have access by the public.
 And I also sent out this afternoon, I supplied the change to the access document, access easement document last week. And I just sent out this afternoon a minor change to the resolution, again, adding the word non-exclusive to the resolution to be crystal clear that this is not an exclusive easement for the applicant. And I have notified the applicant of this last week and they had no problems with that.
 So I would ask that there be a motion to amend both the resolution and the access easement document to add non-exclusive to the terms. I supplied you copies of both of these that were, as I would like to see them, with non-exclusive added to them. So I would hope that that would be the first thing the city council would do before you discuss this further. Okay. So who would like to do that?
 i move we amend the document of the resolution and the attachment as uh presented by our city attorney second second motion in the second um any discussion on that okay care which police call the role canyon yes eddie scroggins yes bunch yes turk yes smith yeah it's heroes
 Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay. Now Gar. Yes. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I think you are fairly familiar with this request as you reviewed it last summer. It's basically to implement the approved planned zoning district.
 that was approved by city council the first phase of it in 2018 and the preliminary plat that the Planning Commission approved in January but just so we have the contextual relationship let me share a screen with you okay
 So the acquisition of the Eastman is outlined in the red area. It presently provides access to our water tank and the preliminary plot approved by the Planning Commission to minimize the impact on the existing Sain Street and to maximize the tree preservation area which is about half of these slots.
 The proposal is to provide rear access and this would provide that access. Also, it also provides public access both to the trail system and to an existing home that is at this location. So it implements the approved planned zoning district and the approved preliminary plat and the,
 It also does an additional thing, which is the utilities department has negotiated an agreement that the developer will seal and overlay to city standards a 20-foot access street, which then would be both available to the city and to the public. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe Lawrence Finn?
 is representing that applicant. If you have questions for the applicant and I'll stop my share here. So the applicant is here? Should be. Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the city council, anybody? Yes, Lawrence, is that who you said, Garner? Yes. Lawrence, go ahead. Okay. I'll be available to answer any questions that the council may have. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 okay all right um all right what questions do we have from the council on this so i got a decent number of emails telling me to vote against this but i feel like there's it's about other issues and not actually about uh the thing that we're talking about if we were to actually vote against this what would happen i guess that's a question both for staff and maybe the applicant um
 My impression is that the easiest alternative solution would be to create a parallel driveway. These are large lots. The average size of these lots are a third of an acre. They could do it on the first lot, the southern tier lot.
 uh they could dedicate an easement and create a parallel driveway uh but we'd kind of be uh getting the worst of all worlds we wouldn't get our access improved and we'd get two uh two driveways parallel to each other increase storm water runoff and so forth and lose trees
 Okay that's that was my understanding. I just wanted to make sure uh because you know people are emailing us and they're like save the trees don't let them do anything and vote against this and I'm like that's actually kind of the opposite of what I'm seeing so thank you. So you would lose more trees Garner if you vote against this is that? Yeah yes sir. Okay all right what other questions do we have? Okay well let's get some public comment then.
 All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minutes broke into segments of three minutes and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address us tonight? Mayor Lisa Orton. All right. Go ahead.
 I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Hossel in Fayetteville. My understanding is that the alley, all the driveways from the seven houses go to the alley area.
 And Markham hospitality owner and Markham residential owner or specialized for short, I don't think they need to purchase an access easement from the city in order to build their proposed seven house development because all the driveways are going to that little alley and in this historic wooded pasture.
 There's one exit onto Markham Road and that's sufficient. Many people prefer living on a dead end street or alley because there is no through traffic. I don't see how they think that they'd lose more trees. I mean, the driveway is going back to the alley. Anyway, I don't see what they're talking about there. So I would...
 I hope that you would not approve this request to purchase the access easement through the city property. And the reason it is not necessary for specialized development of Markham Hill to have two exits from that alley. And the city's not required to sell access of its land to any resident or developer just because they ask.
 The neighbors in the area want their properties protected from excess traffic, especially on Upper Sang Avenue and Haskell Heights area. It has been a dead end street for over 100 years and the residents want it to remain that way. There is opposition of the Markham Hill development in general among Fayetteville residents and others. We have over 10,000 on the petition so far and growing. And there's no need to approve every request from a developer just because the land was rezoned.
 At least that was what several city officials told me two years ago to reassure me that an up zoning does not guarantee that the development will even take place. I noticed in the city staff report that it says the preliminary plats approval. I guess that means phase one. The preliminary plats approval was conditioned on garnering approval of an excess easement through the city property from city council.
 And I would say that please do not approve an access easement through the city property. This would then disapprove the preliminary plat. And this would be a great first step in moving toward the goal of the city helping in protecting all the urban forests, natural land, wildlife, and historic places in archaeology and Native American sites on Markham Hill.
 As an example, this particular seven house development between Markham Road and Sang Avenue, it would destroy Evangeline Archer's 1930s barn, horse pasture and the spring with its 1930s rock piled wall. Am I going down to two minutes or? Oh, okay, I have a couple more minutes. So that's my first comment. My second comment is really short.
 Who exactly is requesting to buy an access easement on the city land? Who are specialized stakeholders in Markham residential owner and Markham hospitality owner? I believe the city council and the people of Fayetteville have a right to know who specifically is planning to destroy Markham Hill, a Fayetteville treasure.
 and who exactly are the stakeholders and what are their percentages of ownership of the Markham Hill property. I mean this Markham Hill land is so important to so many people in Fayetteville and people who used to live in Fayetteville and love it. That I think you know over 10,000 people already and more who haven't even signed the petition. I think you know
 we have a right to know and the city of Fayetteville has a right to know they're dealing with this developer who exactly owns this land and what are the percentages. So anyway, that's so any questions that I asked, I hope that you all will be able to answer. Thank you. That's it. Thanks. Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay. Okay.
 Am I speaking now to the group? Yes. I'm Martha Sutherland. I live at 1928, excuse me, Haskell Heights, at the top of Markham Road there. And I'm concerned about the juncture of Tsang and this easement going off because
 The road is very narrow. Sang is very narrow up there. It has a very steep ditch on either side. I hate to meet anyone coming up or going down, as the case may be, at that corner. The sight of the UPS truck is absolutely shocking. And to make it so that there is more traffic right there,
 and the ditches and that sort of thing, my question. So thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? Anybody else, Mayor. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. I think one of the questions, Garner, is that how have y'all determined that you would lose more trees if we had a more efficient system? And I think that's a good question.
 Council does not support this? You would have to get alternative access to meet the conditions of the Plenary Platte which would create a parallel drive that is presently covered with trees immediately north of this drive. If you have a plan to make it a parallel drive,
 If you assume that Ms. Orton solution or implemented, it would take a variance to allow a cul-de-sac and a turnaround, which again would not only create a dead end street serving seven lots when our city requirements required two access points rather than a cul-de-sac, but it would also take out more trees.
 The reason that the front loaded solution wasn't chosen is that existing same tree, street is lined with trees and that's an easement just west of the street. This plumbery plat has a tree preservation plan approved by our forester
 that preserves 42% of the existing canopy. The Plans Only District requires 25. So, and many of those trees are right along Sainte Street immediately to the west. So if you did an individual driveway front loaded, you certainly would disturb more of them.
 And it's already zoned to do the front loaded drives anyway, right, Garner? No, it requires rear load. The preliminary plat requires access off the alley, Mayor. Okay. Okay. This is just implementing the plat, which is a connection to the alleyway that comes from Markham South.
 along the rear, the seven rear lots. So it can be alley loaded, but that disturbs the tree canopy less than the other solutions. Okay, all right. What other questions we got? There seemed to be a question about ownership. I guess this would be for Kit. If we were turning down resolutions and ordinances based on
 who somebody is and not what they're asking, would that be a legal liability? I think that would be certainly a problem, whether it be a zoning or development or whatever. You're supposed to...
 look at that from an objective standpoint and not a subjective standpoint and you know not grant it to your friends and deny it to your enemies instead you're supposed to look at the land itself and do what is in the best interest of the city in relation to the land you could you know that's not an un you know an unbreakable what type rule so if you had someone that every time they developed
 had caused tremendous problems and didn't follow the rules and violated their preliminary plat and did other things like that, well, then you could possibly look at some developer like that more carefully. But normally, and in fact, almost always, you should just look at the land and the proposed development. And we will require developers to follow the rules and to obey the preliminary plat or their zoning district.
 So yes, I would say normally you would never look at the personalities involved and try to make a decision because of whether somebody is local or not local or whether you like someone who don't like them. Thank you. So I have a comment, really not really a question, but
 I don't know how many of my council member colleagues have actually been up to Markham Hill and looked at this area, the South St. Eric area that we're discussing tonight. I mean, it is very wooded. It is a very narrow and tight street with big ditches. And I echo my neighbor's concerns about this. Yeah, the FedEx truck can barely get down there. And so adding another access point.
 on city property, buying the access for these seven households is going to create some traffic concerns and problems. You know, I think everybody knows, I think this Markham Hill development should never have been passed or gone through. Unfortunately, that was before my time. But now we're faced with some of the real consequences and challenges of that action. And I, I,
 I don't think this is a good idea. I would prefer the cul-de-sac, a variance with the cul-de-sac and cutting off traffic on that very narrow street where specialized real estate has to build another access out from the back end loaded residences that they're going to build. So I
 I will be voting against this for those reasons. And I hope that my other colleagues will consider that and support finding another alternative rather than adding more traffic to that very narrow street that's up there that has been.
 a nice quaint area for many, many, many years. And this development will change that. And there are going to be a lot of trees cut down in the process of just building those homes. So, you know, the destruction is already happening and it will continue to happening as this development moves forward. I certainly see the...
 I would like to ask you to consider the situation similar to council member Turk and so I've got to consider it also from that point of view. This is a tough situation when I look at it overall but thank you council member Turk for bringing that information to us to consider. I think I would caution this against introducing sort of false dichotomies to the
 Kyle, can you speak up? I'm having a hard time hearing you. I apologize. Is that any better? Yes, thank you. Okay. I want to caution us against introducing any sort of false dichotomies to the conversation, especially as it comes to how many trees will be cut down for the development, because that's a conversation that we had two and a half years ago, and that was
 A unanimous decision at the time, I believe because we did the evaluation carefully, that the plan that we are seeing through now preserves far more trees than the previous zoning did. That, I think, is a settled issue as far as I'm concerned looking at this. The traffic is kind of the key point on this one, and one of the things that I've been hearing in this area since
 The earliest conversations about Markham Hill developments was emergency vehicle access. And the difficulties on some of these narrow streets, if there's an emergency call and traffic can't get around it or it gets stuck behind an accident. And what this would do would provide a secondary access for not only these seven houses, but also the ones further down, the very few that are further down Sang.
 I don't think that we're going to be pushing a drastic amount of increased traffic on the same with this. First of all, it's only seven houses in this particular area and their primary exit. If I were living there would be to go to Markham Hill, Markham Road. I think that would make a much more sensible primary route. They'll just have a back entrance that will give them an extra option.
 Is it required that we sell this to any developer that asks? Absolutely not. But I think it's important that we recognize that saying no to it isn't going to stop the development that's already been approved here. And they do have a right to access the streets. We've encountered that conversation on, I think more questions than I can count at this point. So selling this access to them,
 I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that is a great point. I think that
 Okay, what we have is a resolution here. I mean, we passed the resolution. Okay. Okay. We have most of the second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Carrie, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Yes. Okay.
 THE RESOLUTION PASSES. OKAY. THANK YOU ALL. LET'S MOVE ALONG TO NEW BUSINESS. IN ORDER TO STAY FORMAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND TO ACCEPT, QUOTE, ANY AMOUNT OF 29,720
 $50 from multi-craft contractors incorporated for repairs to a pump station damaged in a motor vehicle accident to approve a project contingency in the amount of $2,975 to authorize the mayor to sign a release order.
 of property damage related to the vehicle accident and to accept insurance funds any amount of 25 000 as a settlement of all claims kit you have this one yes whereas on july 30th 2020 a trailer carrying a boat became unhitched from the truck that was towing it from lake sequoia and caused substantial damage to a city pump station and utility shed located at 17 970 lake sequoia
 And Multicraft Contractors Incorporated estimated the repairs will cost $29,750. And whereas the Atfault Polarities Insurance Company, Equity Insurance, has agreed to pay the policy limits of $25,000 toward the damages.
 Whereas a bid waiver is requested since repairs are needed immediately to secure the city's pump station and is not practical or feasible to obtain formal sealed bids. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and accepts a quote in the amount of $29,750 from Multicraft Contractors Incorporated for an emergency repair to the city's pump station and utility shed
 and further approves the project contingency on amount of $2,975.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign the release of property damage required by equity insurance and agrees to accept the insurance funds in the amount of $25,000 as damages and a settlement of all property claims. Mr. Mayor, I worked on this along with Andrea from the Insurance and Purchasing Department.
 The damage that was done was substantial. In fact, we're not really gonna repair the shed. We're gonna scrape it off, basically remove it, put a new shed in there and make sure all the pipes and everything are connected. So it's a totally new shed that we're getting now. And so it's not just a repair, it is a new shed. I was a personal injury lawyer for 14 years before I became city attorney and through I've dealt with insurance companies a lot.
 When you get a policy limits offer like we have, that is as much almost as a full replacement of the property that was damaged. Well, that's a pretty good offer. And really as much as the city could almost possibly receive, if we decided to file suit and try to go in that direction, because we wouldn't be suing the insurance company. In fact, you could never mention the word insurance out loud, or it's a mistrial. We'd be suing the individual who,
 Probably failed to put on his security chain from the truck to the trailer. Just forgot to do that. And so the trailer then must have hit a bump or something and became dislodged and hit our shed.
 So I think this is really a very good settlement for the city of Fayetteville. I strongly recommend its approval. And Andrea might want to further make any further statements. And so I will yield to her if she wants to say something. Andrea, do you have anything you want to add or Paul? I'll tell you.
 I told Andrea that Kit and I would handle it. No, I don't really have anything to say. As Kit said, this is probably as good an offer as we're going to get. And to take it to court is always a risk and it's expensive to do. Okay. What questions do we have from the council? I do want to mention this went to the water sewer solid waste committee. And it was unanimous to bring it forth for consideration to city council. Okay. Thanks, Mark. Anybody else? Yes.
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have five minutes. We'll open in segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. The federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Second. Well, I motion the second to go to the second read. Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Dixon? Yes.
 In order to waive formal competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $29,750 from Multicraft Contractors Incorporated for repairs to a pump station damaged in a motor vehicle accident, to approve a project contingency in the amount of $2,975, to authorize the mayor to sign a release of property damage related to the vehicle accident, and to accept insurance funds in the amount of $25,000 as a settlement of all property claims.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turf. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes.
 In order to waive formal competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $29,750 from Multicraft Contractors Incorporated for repairs to a pump station damaged in a motor vehicle accident, to approve a project contingency in the amount of $2,975, to authorize the mayor to sign a release of property damage related to the vehicle accident, and to accept the insurance funds in the amount of $25,000 as a settlement of all claims.
 What final comments do we have in the council? Okay, Kerwin, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herb? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much.
 Number two, an ordinance to approve vacation 20-004 for property located in the 800 block of North Park Avenue to vacate a portion of alley right of way. Chip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of an alley right of way is not required for corporate purposes.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a street right-of-way and as described in Exhibit B, attach to the Planning Department's agenda memo. And actually, that's alley right-of-way. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Number 2, an easement shall be retained in place of the right-of-way for the length of the alley dedicated with A.L. Trent's revised plan of the City Park Edition Lots 1 through 10, Block 2, and Lots 1 through 3, Block 3. Okay. Darn it. Yeah, Mayor and Council, thank you.
 This request comes to you at the petition of all the property owners of this L-shaped alley. It's between Cleburne, Prospect, Woolsey, and Park. The north-south portion is 15 feet wide, and the east-west portion is 20 feet wide. The alley presently is a paper alley. It's always been a paper alley.
 It is used for a water line for a portion of the north-south and Sweppco uses the east-west alley. And so that's the reason for the recommendation to retain it as an easement but vacate the right-of-way portion of it. Both of us on the staff side and the Planning Commission
 were very, very hesitant to recommend approval of vacating alleys because they frequently are very useful and can provide rear access and facilitate desirable future development. We came to the conclusion that this is an exception.
 The nature of the alley, 15 feet under, is really perhaps a one-way alley could be built, but it would be very, very difficult to build it even if it were open. And it is presently occupied by large trees, accessory structures, and fences.
 And so Planning Commission staff do recommend that you approve the right-of-way vacation but retain the easement. And with that, let me get out of my slide and turn over to Tammy Smith, who is the party that has organized this vacation request with her neighbors.
 And she's asked me to drive her presentation. So I'm going to go over, if you let me, and share her PowerPoint presentation. OK. OK. And if Ms. Smith is on, I'll let her take it from here. Let me see here. Let me go to the slideshow. Now, the applicant has 10 minutes. OK.
 Can you confirm that you hear me? Yes. Perfect. Okay. I feel so much better now. Okay. So thank you so much for letting us present this. There's 12 families that...
 have properties that butt up to the alley and all the families and all the utility companies um you know are in agreement that this would be a great way to preserve the tree canopy in this area. So this presentation kind of talks about the trees that are within the alley and you can see an overview of the various species of trees.
 There's some that I don't quite know enough about trees to identify but that's kind of an overview of this. And thank you Garner for doing this for me so it's one less thing to worry about. So if you just say, Ms. Smith, if you just say next when you're ready to go I'll move forward. Perfect. So we're going to go through just some pictures of the trees so you have a vision of what is in this alley currently. Next.
 So the black oak is there. I did put approximate heights and the locations of where they are and I tried to get some owners of the properties that about the alley to help you have a perspective of the size of the trees. Next. This is a shot that you can see from Park Avenue. So you'll notice that the tree canopy is not just
 visualized from the backyards, it's also something that people that are going up and down Park and Woolsey are able to appreciate. So that's that same black oak. Next. This sycamore tree is quite large and I think one of the neighbors is going to talk a little bit more about this particular tree. It's not quite in the alley, but its drip line extends underneath the alley. Next.
 There are multiple maple trees that were originally planted in the 1920s. If you go to the aerial pictures that the city has on their website of GIS, you can see the row of maple trees. And most of these trees are close to 100 years old. Some of them are dying. These next few maple trees are almost certainly offspring of the original A.L. Trent plantings.
 and they're in the 25 to 30 maybe even 50 year old range. Next another maple tree about 25 years old. Next and probably the whoa probably the biggest of the maples in the alley is this one in the front you can see that sycamore behind it as well. Next as you go down the street there's more
 trees, quite a few cedars, and then there's also a quite large white oak. And one of the things that also I think is striking is the amount of flora and fauna that is supported by the alley. So it's not just the trees, but when you think about, for example, the oak tree is going to
 not start providing acorns until it's 50 years old. And then those acorns are available for all the squirrels, the rabbits, the mice, all those guys. Next. I think you can read that one, cedar. Next. So this is the white oak that is smack dab in the middle of the alley, kind of where it makes the turn to the west.
 And I guess that alley, that oak tree has probably been in the alley since the alley was platted almost. It's so large. Next. And just to give some frame of reference, one of the neighbors standing with that oak tree. Next. And on the opposite side of the fence, a different neighbor with the same oak tree.
 Another interesting thing is that there are a couple of caterpillars that the white oak is the only food source. So, you know, there's a lot of biodiversity within the alley as well. Next. This is the view more or less from the street. There's another one as well. Once again pointing out that it's not just the neighbors that are admiring these trees that provide such such an asset to the Wilson Park area. It's also anybody that drives up and down the street. Next.
 These are the trees, I don't know what they are, so I just put them all on there. Next. And this is the view from Park, seeing the trees behind probably 817 Park, a home built in about 1924. Next. And a quite old redbud with David Jackson, thanks. Next. And then this is the elm tree that's in his yard as well. Next.
 One of the other things that we recognize is that 847 Park is at a higher elevation than the homes that are at West Prospect. So one of the things that also happens is there's a fair amount of flow of water that goes downhill. And so on the next slide, next slide.
 you'll notice that there's some mitigation for flooding that is in Wilson Park. So we're looking across Prospect.
 And there's hay bales all here lining the park. I can't remember how long that's been going on but for quite a while. And the other thing that I would say is those trees are doing a good job of mitigating some of that water going down and ending in the park and the Illinois watershed because they're drinking it up with their root system. And certainly those trees not being there would allow more water to flow down and potentially flood that area. And next.
 just a view of the castle with the same hay bales in that in that photo. Next. Thank you. So I can't see how much time I have left so You have about 30 minutes. Okay well I appreciate the opportunity to present this and I know that there's some other neighbors that want to have some more input. I would comment that the homes in the City Park addition were
 built primarily the majority of them between before 1946. So these are long established homes that are not being torn down. In fact, they're being added onto instead. And so I feel like these homes are going to stay in the park addition. And so the need for the alley is mitigated by the fact that these homes have been here a long time and I,
 they're not likely to go anywhere. So thank you. Thank you. All right. Do we have any questions from the council to the applicant or staff on this? Mayor, I have a couple of questions for Garner, I think. And I'm glad that you pointed out, Garner, the sort of reluctance for staff to come to this position, because generally I would have a similar –
 predisposition to retaining future flexibility. So I'm hoping you can help me understand this. Is there a threat in the current situation to the trees that we're trying to head off? Is there a pending development that we were expecting here that we're trying to get ahead of? I'm not aware of any pending a development. Obviously if it's a dedicated alley, someone could,
 take advantage of that. I think we were very reluctant on staff side. I think one thing that's very different here from a typical LA is 15 foot width. There's just no way with modern equipment that you could put that LA way through there without obtaining additional consent from the adjacent property owners. And they're now asking to vacate it. So it just seems like,
 This is a little bit of an exception to our normal rule, which is let's keep our grid in our alleys. When there are trees in a public right-of-way, who owns them? Oh, the public does. So even though they kind of behave like they're in somebody's yard now, would the landowner adjacent be allowed to go cut those down without authorization? You know, that's a question that,
 deserves some attention in Fayetteville? Technically, no, although we really don't have the mechanisms to permit that or to prevent that. And if we vacate the right of way and these are in private land in an RSF4 district, is there anything preventing them from being cut then? No. Okay.
 All right. Thank you. I'd like to hear the rest of the neighborhood. And those are kind of some of the balancing calculations that are going through my mind. Any other questions from the council? OK, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minute duration broken into segments of three and two.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address us first? Steve Carraway. Okay, go ahead. Mr. Carraway. Okay, who else? Nobody else. Mr. Carraway is the only one with his hand raised at the moment. Okay. Now we have others. Meredith Mahan. Okay. Okay.
 Go ahead. Okay. Okay, go ahead. Meredith, one second. You'll be back up.
 So Meredith, you should be able to go ahead. There. Now, can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Yes. Hi, I'm Meredith Mahan and I live at 803 Park Avenue. And thank you so much for giving us the opportunity to come to you guys and talk to you about this. I understand that the City Planning Commission is
 thought really hard about this and I feel like their conclusion to recommend vacating it is really well thought out and important for our city. The intention of this petition is to preserve the beauty and the trees in our alley and help them endure.
 The land has just historically become an integral part of the adjoining properties and the properties protect the land. The neighborhood's really well established and as Tammy said, most of the homes were built before 1946. In 1945, the eastern end of the east-west 20-foot running alley was vacated.
 and has not been used at all since 1955. And as we said earlier, this other alley has never been used. The alley behind my home, it's impassable. When you actually walk it, it has a pretty steep rise. There's a lot of rocky terrain with rises and dips
 And the tree density there is thick and going right through the middle of the alley.
 And that landscape and foliage really provide important control of stormwater runoff. Tammy showed the runoff there and with rainfall there is a pretty heavy flood potential. And I think any change to some kind of impervious surface
 would, and disturbance of that foliage, would really change the contour of the land and increase the volume and velocity of the water flow. And that goes right down through yards, down into Wilson Park, into the Illinois River watershed. So what is there is really protecting all of that.
 So undisturbed, this area really protects and enhances the neighborhood. It protects Wilson Park. And it adds to the value and beauty of the city of Faith. So the goal of this petition is to help this remain intact and endure. Thank you. Thank you. Well, Steve Carraway, try again. Go ahead. Go ahead.
 Mr. Carraway, I'm not sure what the technical issue is, but we will move to Beth Barham. Go ahead. Hello, can you hear me? Yes.
 Good thank you. Thanks very much for taking this request and I just wanted to add one perspective on this it has to do with the character of our overall neighborhood and the interests of the city and the citizens of the city because as you have seen from the map our block is located directly next to Wilson Park which is of course is our oldest city park our most used city park
 And the neighborhood, not just our block, but I can say speaking to our neighbors, considers itself something of an extension of the park in that there are so many people that walk our streets who are maybe they have come to the park to park or maybe they park on our streets. And we welcome that. We welcome them visiting. And we have people of all ages, children, babies in carriages, toddlers on the little balance bikes that they have,
 skateboarders, elderly, all sorts of people. And many, many people come into the neighborhood from outside of the neighborhood. So for that reason, we were thrilled when the city made the exploratory effort to try slow streets. We were one of the early areas chosen to test that out. I have yet to meet anybody, talk to anyone in the neighborhood that doesn't think it's a great idea.
 and we loved it because it slowed down the traffic for all of the pedestrians in the street, made it safer, and it also helped to, didn't completely eliminate, but helped to reduce the number of cut-through drivers who were trying to just avoid going to North and College, which I realize is a congestion problem, but racing through Wilson Park area is really not a good solution to that congestion.
 So my argument would be that having this alleyway ever turn into something that put more cars onto these streets that are already narrow because we're one of the few older neighborhoods close to downtown, but the streets are narrow. And I think that in keeping with where the city's trying to go with walkable streets, livable communities where people can be outdoors more easily and safely, I
 leaving the alleyway as it is not just for the beauty of the trees, which is clearly important to everyone who walks the neighborhood, but for overall just where the city is trying to go with this area of town. So thank you very much for your consideration of that. Steve Caraway, try again. Okay, go ahead. Everything works but the audio. I'm sorry, Mr. Caraway. David Jackson. Go ahead. Go ahead.
 Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Yes, thank you to the council and to Mr. Mayor for hearing our comments. My wife and I, my wife is Laura. We live at 817 North Park. And I would like to agree, first of all, with just the comments about the drainage. If you're ever walking from North Street down to Park Avenue or down Park Avenue to Prospect, it's a pretty steep grade.
 And we have a lot of water, you know, going down our street. But we can imagine if that was an open alley behind, especially if it was a rough surface, there would be a lot of erosion that would head down the hill, down behind our houses. And that would basically be a creek.
 emptying you know into the park so I agree with those comments about about mitigating the the flooding issues the other issue that I want to make is Wilson Park is is a treasure for folks in Fayetteville but if you look at TripAdvisor Wilson Park is I think the number six uh
 most requested thing to do in Fayetteville. We're in our front yard a lot. We sit on our porch a lot. We visit with folks that are walking. We have a lot of students that are coming from the UAMS
 there at North and College. We talk to folks that are walking over from the VA, but we also just talk to folks that are, you know, driven in from Elkins or they've driven in from other parts of town or maybe out of town. And they're parked around in our neighborhood and in the park and they're just walking. And I think it's been especially important during the pandemic.
 for folks to just get outside. And we commonly hear them say things like, we're here because of the trees. We just don't see trees this big, or we don't see trees this old, or they may have questions about our trees. And sometimes they ask, you know, the kids asked to climb the trees. So we wanna preserve our trees, not just for us personally, but we just think it's a healthy part of our city.
 It's a great message to people in our city and visiting our city that we, you know, that we're preserving these beautiful trees. I think they serve us well. And we would hate to see these big trees cut, you know, behind our houses. Anyway, we thank you so much for considering the vacation. And, yeah, we hope we're able to maintain and preserve that area. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Peter Rowe. Go ahead. Yes, I'm here. Can you hear me? Yes. Great. Thank you so much. I appreciate the opportunity to address both the mayor and the city council. What I'm going to do is give a voice to the voiceless. You know, we kind of look at trees as sort of this living object, but somehow it's dispensable.
 And I take kind of a different tact on that. You know, there are a number of trees that are directly in the alley or adjacent to the alley that could be affected by opening it up, making it a right away that have been here for a significant amount of time. And I want to give you an example. We recently bought the lot next door to us, uh,
 And we used American Arborist Association guidelines to age the sycamore tree, which you've seen a photograph of with my wife. And that tree is 175 years old, which means it was a sapling in 1845 before any of these homes were built. And just for those of you who don't know this, a sycamore tree of all the species, native species of Arkansas,
 actually has a potential lifespan of 600 years. Now, this tree, if you were to be here and take a look at it, is just incredibly impressive. It has a 48-inch diameter trunk. It's probably well over 100 feet tall. And here's the critical part in relation to the alleyway. It has about a 50 to 75-foot root. Now, the...
 outside of the tree goes into the alleyway. So if in the future the city decided for whatever reason to go ahead and put an alleyway through this area, it would actually kill this tree. And this is not the only one. There's the white oak that is down about four or five houses that is significantly old and within the right-of-way of the alleyway.
 So, you know, I really feel like it's important for us, for people that don't live 175 years old, to acknowledge the importance of these old species. And if the vacate were to be given, I can guarantee you that the homeowners along that alleyway will protect these trees. So I just wanted to give a voice to the voiceless, and I appreciate you giving me the opportunity to
 Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? We don't have anybody who hasn't already spoken. Okay. Wait a minute. I have a request. Tammy Smith said that she has received a written copy of the comments for Mr. Carraway, and she has requested time to read them if the city council will allow. Go ahead. Go ahead, Mark.
 Okay. Thank you. So here's what the text says. Tammy, this is Steve Caraway. I can't be heard, but I wanted to bring up there could be a cost to the city. When trees in the alley fall, the property owners have paid for the cost. Happened twice to us. We will ask the city to pay for this going forward. Can you tell them about this? Thank you, Tammy. Yeah. Okay. Thanks, Mark.
 Okay, we're back to the council now. This is an ordinance is on the first reading. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the second reading. Carabinieri, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turr? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. And in order to approve the VAC 20-004, the property located at the 800 block of North Park Avenue, to vacate a portion of alley right of way. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. Second. We have a motion to say and go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance approved DAC 20-004 for property located in the 800 block of North Park Avenue to vacate a portion of Alley right-of-way. Okay, any final comments from the council?
 I do want to make one point. During the construction of buildings at the VA hospital, there was excessive amount of runoff that ran down through the neighborhood. And one of the areas that was not as highly impacted as off of Park or off of Woolsey was this area where the water ran heavily, but the velocity was slowed because of the vegetation in this alleyway. So
 That is a direct example of the water running down from VA Hill through the neighborhood where the vegetation and the trees there did protect some of the runoff. And we do have a lot of erosion on the north side of the park where this runoff does accumulate. So I think it's good to approve this vacation so that it can be maintained as it is. Okay. Thank you, Mark. Anybody else?
 I have one more question for Garner. Something's nagging about me on this one, and I can't quite put my finger on why, but it's got me sitting on the fence and just barely tilting towards voting against this. And I'm trying real hard to convince myself to change my mind. So Garner, does the presence of the alley the way it is now, does that grant, like, I know that folks have a right to access it, but without a road there? Yeah.
 HAB-Jacques Juilland- Does that mean that somebody mid block could pave the entire length of the thing for everyone else is that what regarding against HAB-Jacques Juilland- Yes, that's that in a nutshell. Yes. HAB-Jacques Juilland- Oh, somebody is not likely, but somebody theoretically good HAB-Jacques Juilland- Okay. And there's no because it's right away. There's no way for the
 It's dedicated right away. It's for public passage. It can be improved. Okay. And we would not have the ability to decline that for just a single driveway? Not if they could construct it within that dedicated right away. Okay. I think that's what I needed to convince me. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? I have a quick comment.
 I just want to commend the neighbors for getting organized and coming together. We've dealt something with this, something very similar. I don't know. It was when the last year in Ward one. And it was very unfortunate that they didn't they weren't able to have get organized to to plan, you know.
 show pictures. And I think those were very, very convincing for me. I'd hate to lose those trees. So I just want to commend them for getting themselves together. So thanks. Okay. Thank you. Who else? Yes, go ahead.
 So I was fortunate enough to walk that alley last week. And in some ways, I don't think the pictures that were presented do it justice because it is very lush. It's really dry.
 grown up. There is lots of vegetation there. And then there is this sort of steep incline that would not lend itself well to having a road put through there, a paved road. So it's clearly been that way for
 many, many, many, many, many years. And if something, if an alley was constructed through there it would do an incredible amount of damage. So I just wanted to mention that because again I think it's much more wild and rugged than maybe the pictures showed. Thank you. Anybody else? All right. Karen, which please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. All right, thank you all. Number three.
 In Ordinance 3 Zone, that property is described in Zone Petition RZN 20-015, located northwest of Zion Road in Randall Place for approximately 3.27 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, and RO residential office to RZN.
 R-I-U, Residential Intermediate Urban and CS Community Services, KIT. Bid ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map, exhibit A, and the legal description exhibit B, both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RMF-24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, and RO, residential office, to RIU, residential intermediate urban, and CS, community services. Section 2.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, I hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor and Council. This request is located on the north of Zion Road and northeast corner of Randall Place in Zion. The surrounding zoning, there's a planned zoning district across the street, which is
 fully constructed for small lot, single family residents. The most of the zoning is presently RSF 24 and a small sliver of it's RO. The Northern part is proposed to go to RIU and the Southern portion community services with the intent
 of doing a vertical mixed-use building with residential and first floor office of commercial. It's a city neighborhood area in the 2040 plan. It is about a block from a tier identified tier two center at Crossover and it is also a
 has a relatively mid-level infield score. A lot of the facilities are present. There were no issues identified and the Planning Commission staff recommended approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Mr. Brian Teague is representing the applicant. Yes. Brian, you want to speak to the council? Go ahead, Brian.
 CAN YOU HEAR ME? YES. THANK YOU, MAYOR. THANK YOU, CITY COUNCIL. I'M BRIAN TEAGUE WITH COMMUNITY BY DESIGN. WE FEEL LIKE THIS PROPOSAL, IT'S BETTER IN A COMMUNITY BY
 in accordance with the city's future land use plans. We feel like the RU zoning will encourage and enable the construction of smaller scaled residential buildings that will better match the neighborhood. And at the same time, we feel like the CS zoning will encourage and make possible walkable main street type retail destinations for the surrounding neighborhood just
 I just ask that the city council support this proposal. Be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. What questions do we have in the council? Okay, let's take some public comments then. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute duration and broken into segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address us on this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is an ordinance. It is on the first reading. What discussion or questions do we have in the Council? Or not? I have a question. Okay. So I know that there are residences off, I guess, to the west on Randall Place. I'm guessing they were notified because they were within 200 feet. Is that correct? Yes, that is correct.
 Okay. And did you have any response or any inquiries from them at all on this rezoning? I'm not aware of any feedback. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? This is an ordinance that's on the first reading. Mayor, I move we suspend the rule to go to the second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Cambridge, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-015 located northwest of Zion Road in Randall Place for approximately 3.27 acres.
 from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and RO residential office to RIU residential intermediate urban and CS community services. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Minion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd?
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-015, located northwest of Zion Road and Randall Place, for approximately 3.27 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and RO residential office to RIU residential intermediate urban and CS community services. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Well, I do have a question for planning. Sure.
 When you look at the infill matrix score, it's 7.5 out of 17. And it mentions that in the north, I think it's northeast or northwest corner, that that was where I guess there was some concern. And I just it doesn't seem like this is a very high infill matrix. And I was wondering, I just need some more information on that so I can understand that.
 Council Member Kittion, that number is derived from the Planning Commission actually has a multiplier that they apply to theirs, which the council has not adopted. So if you just take the raw score, which I use because you haven't weighed in on that multiplier, it's actually five to six out of 12 rather than eight.
 It I would call that a mid-level score is certainly not a high score and that's not a low score. But I was wondering specifically what negatively impacted the score. I could get you that from the staff report. I think it's got water and sewer and I understand the positive. The positive elements are outlined in the information we got, but it didn't say what wasn't.
 good about it. I mean, I'm curious, you know, but I'm going to support this based on what I've read, but I still have that curiosity. I understand. But the way that score works is you count, you have positives. We looked at negative scores and we really don't have any. So it's a lack of accumulated positives that creates the low score. There are no negatives. Right.
 It's not close to a perfect answer. I get it. I guess I should have said not negative, but what were the factors that were low scorers? Let me see if my- Listen, let's not beleaguer the situation. You don't have it in front of you. I'm going to support this. I was just curious. Thank you. So while y'all were talking, I've got the GIS map here. And to answer Mark's question-
 It's missing sufficient intersection density. It's got no grocery store nearby. It's not within a master plan area. It's not near a public school or a Razorback bus stop. It's not a sewer main, it's not the 71B corridor and it's not near the U of A campus. So those are the ones that are missing.
 And some of those, you know, you're not going to change based on not being able to pick up land and move it closer to the university, for example. So since I'm not going to have very many more opportunities to talk about the infill matrix, I'd just like to remind us that when we talked about that, one of the ideas for how it could be used is not as complex,
 necessarily scoring a property's readiness for infill, but as evaluating our existing infrastructure for areas that may need to be invested in so that they will become ready for infill. I think it's a useful tool for identifying the areas where we still have work to do to get the land ready. Okay. Anything else? All right. Please call the roll. Yes. Okay.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, a resolution to grant the appeal of Manny Terminella to
 regarding a notice of violation issued by the city engineering division for failure to obtain a grading permit for work being performed at 3180 east township street mr terminella since you are appealing we will let you go first you have 10 minutes to speak before the council go ahead mr terminella mr terminella we have unmuted you on our end
 so i'm not sure what the technical issue is um we show a number that ends in 525 with the hand raised and we have enabled you to speak so i'm not sure on your end what you might need to do differently why should we call that well what we can do we can go to the next item um and also if you hit star six on your phone perhaps that will work mr terminella
 Okay, I hit star six. Okay, we can hear you. Okay. Okay, well, I don't have 10 minutes of presentation here. I assume that everyone's read the emails and all the papers that are attached to this deal. My email of October 26, where I...
 explain briefly what I was doing to make my appeal and then my email of October 20th. But, um, basically I have a large backyard about 20 acres and I want to drive off my existing, uh, driveway to, um, my access at Brookbury and, um,
 So I got some loads of fill, a dozer and a roller. And, um, I started to, um, make my, uh, drive to improve it so I could drive to my, uh, other entry over at Brookbury. And, um, apparently there was one complainer, um, and, um,
 They didn't. And then this is what's happened, but basically reading the documents, everything I'm doing is falls outside of needing a grading permit. I guess looking at the official last email I got here, it's their staff is recommending denial because I used heavy construction equipment. Well,
 I don't know any other way to smooth down red hillside and make it stay other than use a bulldozer. So any other way would be just be wasting your time. So basically minor fill, clearing or grading
 Um, those, those are all things that I was doing and it's landscaping. I was shaving off some of my backyard, getting rid of some underbrush and making so I can have a bigger backyard. So I didn't feel like I needed a permit to, to, to do what I was doing. I'm well away from any other, um, neighbor. No one, no one, no one's anywhere close to me. So, um,
 I feel like it was just, you know, somebody got excited and things took off and kind of turned into a situation which was unnecessary. So I'll answer any other questions you might have. Okay. All right. Let's hear from staff and then we'll see if council has any questions for either part. Chris, you want to give the staff side? Yes. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm going to share my screen here. So this is a picture of the vicinity map of where this activity took place. October 15th we received a complaint came through the city attorney's office about heavy construction equipment that is occurring on some property between Candlewood Drive
 east of Candlewood Drive and north of Township Street, as shown on this depiction here. We looked to see if there were any active permits. There were not. So we sent out a code enforcement officer, as is our typical procedure. The code enforcement went out and took some pictures, and I'll go through those quickly as well.
 This is just a little closer in view, first of all, of the site map. And you can see the approximate location of the fill here. Some pictures of the tree removal, some of the grading taking place, some other pictures of the pad being constructed, and just a few more pictures, kind of similar to show the general area of work.
 So based on these pictures, we did issue a violation to Mr. Terminello on the 16th.
 We received a call from Mr. Terminella subsequent to that, asking about it and saying that he didn't feel like he needed a permit. We scheduled a meeting to go out and review the site a little more closely to make a final determination. Then Mr. Terminella actually canceled that meeting and again said that he had read the code and felt like he was working within the code and did not require a permit.
 So ultimately we made a final determination that there was a violation based on the pictures that we've seen again and issued that violation and gave Mr. Terminella information on how he could appeal that. And then on October 26, he did appeal.
 So I want to talk a little bit about what the permit is, when permits are required and when exemptions are allowed. There are six items in the code that allow exemptions. One is excavation below finished grade as part of a building permit.
 Two is cemetery graves. Three is refuse disposal. None of those really have any validity here. Four is a single-family home or duplex that's included as part of a building permit. Building additions,
 less than 2,000 square feet that are within the hillside, hilltop, overlay district. Again, that really isn't applicable here. Really the only item that is applicable is item 6, which is other minor fill, clearing, grading for maintenance purposes such as landscaping, yard grading, maintenance, farming, gardens, and similar activities.
 As we interpret this, we typically look at what kind of activities are occurring and what kind of equipment is being used to do those activities. So basically when we see truckloads of material being brought in and heavy equipment, dozers and compaction equipment, then we make the determination that a permit is required. So that was our determination.
 that it did not meet the exemption under item number six in the code, and that a grading permit is required. And I'll answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council? I have a couple of questions. Okay. Thank you.
 So, Chris, the violation, is that a fine? And if so, how much is that? And secondly, did you all give Mr. Terminella an opportunity to fill out a permit before the violation was issued? Or was that anywhere part of the conversation?
 We typically will issue a violation like this and basically the remedy to that is to request a permit and then we just
 inspect and review, make sure that they're complying with the permit requirements. I think maybe Kit could talk a little bit about the fine, etc. There are fines attached to this, but as I understand it, you ultimately have to get all the way through the process and get a judgment or a
 I don't know, Kit, maybe you can help me out with that. But you have to get all the way through the process of the violation to the prosecutor's office, that sort of thing. Well, of course, the goal is not to collect a fine. The goal is to have someone that needs to have a permit to do grading to actually get it because we're trying to stop.
 the type of erosion problems and storm water problems that we have seen in the past when someone doesn't have a permit, has not taken proper measures to control the runoff, assuming there might be rain sometime. And so to stabilize whatever ground that they've been working on and have a silt fence or whatever else might be required,
 That's the goal. The goal is to try to prevent those kinds of problems that can affect the city and the neighbors when a grading permit has not been obtained and no measures have been taken to stabilize them.
 So I really think that's what we're looking at here. All I think that we wanted Mr. Terminello to do is to get a grading permit so that we could inspect what he's doing. And obviously the less he does, the less erosion control measures he'll need to take. But in this particular case, Mr. Terminello has taken the position that he doesn't need a grading permit whatsoever. And I think that...
 The city engineer is the proper interpretation of that particular chapter. The city council is given the city engineer that duty to interpret the grading chapter.
 And I think his explanation was the fact that there were truckloads of red dirt being brought onto the property, being moved around by a bulldozer. If you look in the pictures there, I don't see any silt fences up or anything like that. And so I think that's what caused our city engineer to be concerned. And basically sending notice to Mr. Terminello by this violation notice,
 that he needed to get a permit so we could inspect and just make sure that everything was okay. So we're not looking about getting a fine from Mr. Terminello. We just want compliance with our grading chapter to try to make sure we're not throwing a bunch of silt and other stuff into the creeks and causing other problems like that. Any other questions from the council for the applicants or the staff? Yes, I have.
 kind of, I do have a question. When you're looking at the code, it does mention residential property, right? And it does mention landscaping. So those are two elements that I can be empathetic with the argument that, well, you know, this is a private residence. I'm doing landscaping. I'm trying to get access. So I can be empathetic with the initial thought that maybe this is,
 is not necessary. Could we table this and encourage Mr. Terminilla to further seek counsel with the city to come with a resolution and maybe work out to get a permit? Or is it beyond that? No, I don't think it's ever beyond that. What we're trying to do is get compliance with our grading chapter, uh,
 And in fact, in my 19 plus years as city attorney, this is the first grading permit that I can remember as ever being appealed.
 And I think the easy solution here is just to have a grading permit applied for and granted and have our engineering staff take a quick look at what Mr. Terminella has done and is trying to do and see whether or not erosion control measures are needed in this particular case. And that will be what the permit will be all about.
 And so I think that it's always what the goal of the city is to try to do something like this without having to resort to the courts or anything like that. That's not where we're looking about going. So I think Mr. Terminella has been able to apply for a billing permit ever since the original notice, even before that. But after getting noticed, certainly he's still eligible to do that.
 And I would encourage him to do that. And I think this can actually be easily resolved that way. A grading permit is not expensive and not nearly when you consider the cost of bulldozers and truck loads full of red dirt. It's really not expensive at all to do that. Most of the erosion control measures that would be required, if any, and I don't know how many would be, are fairly inexpensive to do. Putting up a silt fence and things like that.
 vegetating any dirt that has been scraped up. So I would encourage that a grading permit would be applied for, and if he does do that, and then follows the guidelines from our engineering department about what should be done, I think this violation notice goes away. So I would, if you want to table it now,
 to see if Mr. Terminella wants to go ahead and apply for the grading permit. That certainly would be in order. Of course, I have not heard Mr. Terminella indicate he might consent to obtaining a grading permit. And so I don't know whether it would also be effective if you table. Well, I do applaud Mr. Terminella for utilizing the appeal process that is in
 I'm sorry no one has used it in the past but it is there as a measure to be considered. I want to hear more discussion maybe from other city council members but it seems to me like we should offer this to be tabled since we've had the discussion and perhaps there can be a resolution in the meantime. I need to know maybe some points of view of other city council members and Mr. Terminella.
 Mayor? Yes. I'll share my points, Councilmember Kenyon. First before I do it, Chris, would you mind putting back up some of those images, especially the ones that have red dirt in them? So what I'm focused on right now, can you scroll down a little bit, Chris? I think there was one that had a compacted set of lifts around. There we go, that second one. Or that third one, one or the other. Yeah, look at that.
 Mr. Terminella tonight said that he didn't understand why he needed a grading permit when all he was doing was removing vegetation, leveling the ground, and smoothing it out. That to me sounds like grading. And what I see in these pictures is not landscaping, not by any definition of landscaping I've ever heard before. Our law says that we need a grading permit for this. That's a law we apply everywhere. Mr. Terminella disputes that it applies to him.
 I'm not in favor of tabling it because the decision tonight in front of the council is about whether or not we do require a grading permit. It's up to Mr. Terminella whether or not he wants to comply with the law. Yeah, I also agree with that. Basically the question is does he have heavy equipment? That's clearly heavy equipment. Probably only one out of 200, 500 people in the city can drive that equipment or even move it around.
 That is clearly not landscaping. That is serious movement of dirt. And I think that if it doesn't require anything, the permit will show that. So the process of talking through this is going through the permit.
 So I believe that we should go through that process, and that's how the city has that conversation. And then if we find out that we don't need anything, then he won't need anything. Well, Mr. Attorney, I believe the question has been asked if you would get a grading permit, which is where we started with all this. So maybe you can address that to the council. And press star six. Yeah, so...
 I'm not just landscaping. I mean, it looks like, and then I'm maintaining my drive. I mean, so it sounds like you can't have a bulldozer on your property unless you get a grading permit, regardless of what you're doing, is what this sounds like. And I mean, if you get a load of red dirt on your property, then you...
 smooth it out six inches thick and then you compact it down you need a grading permit for that if you're trying to build a base for your driveway so it won't wash away so like i said in my emails in my correspondence with with the city engineer i'm doing yard grading
 driveway maintenance and similar activities and ultimately some farming. Um, so it's not just landscaping. The landscaping, um, is a portion of it. Um, the, the backyard where that truck is parked, um, that is now the same elevation as my existing backyard. So, um,
 And there's, there was supposed to be probably 50 more truck loads so I could establish a base all the way to Brookbury. So I wouldn't drive in mud in the rain or dust in the, in the dry. So, um, I mean, the deal's done. It's over with. I quit when I, when, when all this came up. I mean, I, I can't have a bulldozer out there for two weeks doing nothing. So, um,
 I don't know that I need anything now. I mean, I mean, I'm not, I'm not doing anything. I stopped what I was doing. And it isn't that I didn't want the city out there to look at it. It's I didn't based upon what happened to me with, with my city council representative, some things got misinterpreted or misinterpreted.
 and put on Facebook and you know, the violation got changed to clear cutting and illegally burning and clear cutting. And it was, wasn't it? Somebody said it was my brother doing it. So I wasn't really interested in getting city officials out there to, to potentially misrepresent what was going on and take pictures and post them and do that. So I don't know. I just, I'm just,
 Um, I'm just trying to follow through and put it, put an end to it. I don't, I don't, I mean, I'm not gonna, I'm just going to drive on dirt now to Brookberry. I'm not going to fix my road. And, and I don't know, like say the heavy construction equipment, this first time I've seen it here, were they in their, their, uh,
 their email to deny, it doesn't say it anywhere in the code that that's a stipulation. That's heavy equipment. I mean,
 So I would say what is heavy equipment? Okay, a bulldozer. I got that was is my 28 horsepower tractor Is that heavy equipment or is that okay? Because I've been using that out there since 1983 so I'd have to have you know A little bit more clarification because it sounds like I can't do anything without a grading permit So if I understand what you're saying, you don't feel that you need to get a grading permit. That's the short answer, correct? I
 I think that what I'm doing falls under the exemptions of number six. Maybe you can tell me how to get a grading permit. Do you have to hire an engineering firm to get one, or is it something you fill out yourself? Chris, maybe you can educate Mr. Terminella on how to get a grading permit.
 The typical process and what the code talks about is that the grading plan must be prepared by an engineer. However, we do have in certain instances have the ability to provide an administrative variance for that. So depending on the scope of work, I mean really what we're interested in in a situation like this,
 is what Kit was talking about, the stormwater controls and protection of water quality. So, you know, some perimeter controls, looking at how the stormwater flows across the site and how we need to protect that flowing off-site onto other properties. He's, I think, in most all cases far enough away from property lines that he may not be impacting other properties from a
 from a fill standpoint or anything like that, but we would be most concerned about the erosion control and that sort of thing. So we could work with him. He would need some sort of site plan and some sort of plan for protecting water quality. We'd need to see the scope of work, what he intends to do, so we know what the extent of grading is.
 And then we could go from there. The permit itself is a minimum of $75 for I believe it's less than half an acre. And then as it goes up, it goes up to a $200 fee for I believe anything over an acre. So it's a relatively nominal fee in most instances like this. Okay. Let's go. I don't know. Can you still hear me? Yes. Okay.
 Okay. Well, it's not necessarily the cost of the permit. Okay. That's not my problem here. I went into this, I didn't think I needed a permit. I made it perfectly clear that I'd get a permit if I needed one. But I got cited. I mean, I was talking to Jonathan Ely, and I was asking him to clarify and explain to me what I needed to do. And then
 Boom, I get the violation. It's like, well, wait a minute. We're talking about this. I mean, I made it perfectly clear from the beginning I'd get a permit if that's what was necessary. But then a bunch of other stuff started happening, which I didn't understand and I didn't want to get involved in. So I guess where I'm at right now is
 I'm not going to do any more work. Okay. I'm done. Uh, I'm not going to get a permit because I'm done. I'm not going to do any more work. So, um, I just, I'd like to end it. What's the best way to end this situation? So, um, I won't have to deal with it anymore. That's,
 That's what I'd prefer to do because if I have to get a permit retroactively, I can, I can assure you that there's no runoff going anywhere. I'm a thousand feet away from, from anything. And there's, there, there's nothing like that happening. It's the day I got the violation, it started raining the next day. So it rained for three or four days after that. And then when it quit raining, I moved the equipment out and it's been over with ever since. So, um,
 Um, I'm just a little bit, the only thing I'm, the reason I'm even speaking or at this meeting is because I've got thousands of feet of driveway. And if I've got to get a grading permit every time it washes out, um, and I want to put a load of gravel in and smooth it out, then that's going to be awful burdensome on me. I mean,
 So I'm a little bit confused on this construction equipment Because it looks like that was just thrown in there It seems like if that was a stipulation It would be in the code You'd be able to read it
 Um, no one said anything about that until this, this denial came. Um, I asked in the beginning, is it the amount of trucks? Is that's what, what's got you so concerned? And I believe Jonathan said, no, it's not the amount of trucks that are there. So, um, that's kind of where I'm at basically. Yeah.
 um the best thing for me is just to move on okay and i don't i don't i don't need to continue the project okay i'm gonna i'm gonna do something else now i'm not gonna i'm not gonna i'm not gonna make my driveway to go to brookberry it's good enough the way it is okay okay fair enough um let's bring it back to the council maybe sometime in the next
 All right. So what other questions does the council have or comment? Mayor, it seems like we kind of got a little astray of what's in front of us because our resolution essentially asks us to overrule our city engineer and make a decision about whether or not a permit was required under the section 169.03 subsection C lists the exemptions that Chris read to us. Okay.
 I mean, it's pretty clear. All grading, clearing, filling, excavation, or land alteration of any kind, unless it's exempted. I think we've heard the words grading and clearing out of Mr. Terminello's mouth tonight. I mean, clearly the pictures show that there's been both of those.
 The exceptions, Chris pointed us to subsection C, and it says other minor fill, clearing, or grading for maintenance purposes such as. Not maintenance purposes and these other things, but maintenance purposes including landscaping. We hear there may have been a little bit of landscaping and yard grading. Farming and gardens, I'm not sure what you're growing in red clay like that.
 But we were told outright that we were building a driveway here. And I think that that is clearly not exempt in Section 6. If you're reading the code, this required a permit. So I'm curious from Kit, do we need a motion to deny the appeal or do we just need to not motion to approve it?
 It's like any appeal, the burden is on the person appealing, in this case Mr. Terminello, and that's why there's a resolution to grant the appeal. So this resolution would have to be voted down in order to deny his appeal. Okay. And we're going to have to take some public comment. Yes. So what other discussion do we have from the council at this moment? Okay. Well, I'm going to open it up for some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak to have...
 Five minutes and broken segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address us? Peter Tonneson. Go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah, Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I didn't intend to comment on this, but it's interesting because we,
 If there's no allegation that the red clay from Mr. Terminella's driveway is intruding on anyone else's land or into waters, public waters anyway, and he has 20 acres, which is a lot of land, so he'd have to pay at least $200. But if there's no intrusion from his activity on his land into somebody else's legal interest
 What right does the city government have to intrude onto his property rights and require this $200 permit so that he can just do what he wants to do on his land? I don't see the legal justification for this. I mean, government is way too intrusive when it can do this to someone. Now, if he had a quarter acre and he was dumping a lot of dirt on his land,
 and through erosion it might flow onto neighbor's land or into waters or city sewers, then I think there's an issue. But this just doesn't seem fair. I mean, it really does seem...
 that the intrusion is by the government into Mr. Terminello's right. And that's, if you listen to what everyone has said, Chris and Mr. Terminello, whom I've never met and don't know, it just sounds like the law has been turned upside down and inside out. That's all I have to say. Thank you, who else would like to address?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Discussion, questions, whatever you all want to do here. Yes, Ken. I would like to point out that the reason we have these kinds of regulations is not to only react when something bad has happened, but to try to prevent that.
 something bad from happening by inspecting it, looking at the situation, and then determining what, if anything, is necessary to prevent the kind of problems that our grading ordinances have tried to address. So we don't want to wait until there's a terrible erosion problem and then go, well, we better go give this person a ticket for doing that. Instead, we want to have a permit done.
 so that the city can look at the major equipment being used, the red dirt being brought in, many truckloads of that being brought in, to see whether or not something really needs to happen and erosion control measures need to be in place or not. But if we just wait for a catastrophe to happen before the city wants to move forward, we're going to have a lot more problems than what we should. So this regulation...
 and this enforcement in trying to get a permit is a proactive way to try to prevent problems from occurring in the first place. Okay. What's the wishes of the council here? I guess I move we adopt the resolution. Second. Yeah. So you would vote no on it if you did not wish to do the what? If you want to deny the appeal, then you would vote no because the resolution would grant the appeal. Right. All right. Everybody got it? One more time, Kit.
 Okay, the resolution is to grant the appeal. So if you do not want to grant the appeal, if you want to sustain what Chris has done in issuing the violation order, then in fact you would vote no and the appeal would be denied. Everybody good? Any final comments from the council? Well, I was hoping for a nice resolution and something agreeable.
 And that didn't seem to happen, so I'm ready to vote. Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? No. Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Bunch? No. Turk? No. Smith? No. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? No.
 The appeal is denied, but I would still encourage Mr. Terminella, if you have a project you want to do, the city is not going to stop you from doing the project. Just please follow the regulations, try to get a grading permit, which I'm sure will be issued, and you can do whatever you want to on your land if it's not adversely affecting other property.
 So I know you said you stopped. You don't want to do anything else. That's your decision. That's fine. But you can do the project you want if you just will follow the rules and get a permit so the city can look at what you're doing and see if any erosion control measures are needed. That's all I have to say. Okay. All right. Thank you all. Let's move on to number five. A resolution to amend number.
 Amendment number two to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Olson Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 19-01 in the amount of $154,900 for the remaining architectural services related to the replacement parking deck for the Cultural Arts Corridor project and to improve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 Cultural Arts Corridor Bond Project. Wade, I believe you have, you want to say something to the council? Yeah.
 Wait, if you're there, we can't hear you. Need your volume. Okay. Okay, good. Can you hear me now? Yes. Okay, let's try that again. Yes, we would like to table this item while Kit works to finalize the contract with the developers, Mayor. Okay. So we're basically asking the council to table for until the contract is ready. Well, to the next meeting. Okay. Okay. All right. Any discussion on that?
 Are we expecting the contract will be ready by the next meeting? I hope so. I certainly will have a presentation of it. We've been talking about this a long time and we need to get off and, and, and get something actually done. And so I hope this is going to be a wake up call for
 the other side to make sure that we can come to an agreement and get this moving. Because if we can't approve anything, if there's not a contract that they will agree to, then we have to look at other locations. So I hope that we will have an approved contract for you at the next meeting. I guess it's been over a year that we've been talking about the carrying costs of this negotiation. What is our backup plan for?
 Well, we really are trying not to have a backup plan, but there are two other legal sites that this could be on. Either one of our other parking lots, the school street lot or even the Walton Arts Center lot. But we're still trying to push forward to get a good contract for the depot lot. Can we move the table until next meeting without public comment or do we need to have public comment first? That's fine. Next meeting. Yep. Okay. Do we have a second?
 Second. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to table for two weeks. Correct, Kit? Yeah, to the first meeting in December. OK. All right. Carriage, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herg? Yes. Smith? Yes. Piraez? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Two weeks. All right. Number six, a resolution to authorize acceptance of an 80-20 Economic Development Administration grant, any amount of $2 million for the construction of the industrial drive extension and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 Economic Development Bond Project. Kevin, I believe you have this. Yes, sir, Mayor. Thank you. Can everybody see my screen? Yep. Okay.
 Thank you. Good evening, council members. As we discussed last Tuesday, this item before you for your consideration tonight is a resolution authorizing the acceptance of a $2 million grant from the Economic Development Administration and approving a budget adjustment. That budget adjustment would appropriate $509,364 in question six bond funds to serve as the 20% match of this 80-20 grant.
 The Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce several years ago identified this as a need, and we've met with them on the topic of this road a number of times. And understanding at that time that cost was a barrier for us for this project, they proceeded to work with the Northwest Arkansas Economic Development District to find grant funding to get the project done. They put a lot of work into getting the grant to this point, and we're very proud of that work.
 And on January 7th of this year, City Council passed Resolution 3820, authorizing Mayor Jordan to proceed with applying for said grant up to $521,000. Staff proceeded to apply for the grant, adding the sidewalk to the project that Council Member Marsh requested. Due diligence was conducted. An environmental narrative was completed by Canteak. It is attached to this packet for your review. It presented no red flags.
 Though, if you do accept the grant, we will have to complete a cultural assessment per request from the Arkansas Department of Heritage. In May, staff proceeded to work with EDA following a preliminary award notice that we got that the grant would be considered further. On October 22nd of this year, a very small socially distanced announcement was held in the Commerce District by the Economic Development Administration announcing the award.
 The project is to construct a 2,474-foot linear foot road from Industrial Drive to City Lake. This road primarily opens up city-owned Commerce Park land and keeps away from environmentally sensitive parcels to the east. These two components were extremely important to us, and we wanted to ensure the project was benefiting land that could only be sold through the City Council.
 The image here is an exhibit from the city's engineering division. Initial requests and conversations in the past actually explored the road traveling from City Lake to the east to tie into Armstrong. The turn north to connect with Industrial Drive was an extremely intentional design for the two points that we mentioned. We wanted to steer out of the floodway and we wanted to make sure that we were benefiting city-owned land for the purpose of economic development.
 The macro project budget is here. A very minimal reduction in the city's cost, about $12,000, has taken place since we spoke of this in January, given that the grant award of $2 million was slightly lower than we originally requested. Worked with engineering to lower those budgets. This match uses as proposing to use 16% of the funds in question six, which had a total of a little over $3.1 million.
 Should you accept the grant, a little more than $2.6 million will remain. While the project opens up 46 acres of city-owned land, we do feel that this project aids in our economic vitality efforts for the following reasons. It accomplishes a major goal of the city's economic development contract to the Chamber of Commerce for only 20% of the total project cost and only 16% of the Q6 funds. It would eat up almost all the funds without this grant.
 It generates an immediate 400% ROI on the funds that we use to get the project done. And that's not including anything potential economic impact-wise from employers such as wages, jobs, et cetera. We are actively competing for projects with sites that are shovel-ready, meaning infrastructure is in place. And the point I'd like to mention here, through the pandemic and the shifts that we've seen and the shifts that are continuing to happen in our economy.
 things like office, retail, and changes to restaurant. What's been impressive, and if you haven't seen the Chamber's two-year report that we posted on our progress page for the public in your review, it shows active projects, and active employment projects in this realm have held steady, and we haven't really lost any through this. We can't say the same for many of the retail projects we're working on. And lastly, it completes a critical link in the city's future fiber map.
 to get conduit here. Part of the goal to connect our city facilities with fiber that our IT director Keith Macedo has talked a lot about. However, our acceptance with this property will change if this grant is accepted. The position this road places the parcels is in a much more prime position than it currently is.
 Staff plans on ensuring that we're being proactive about selling this property for its intended use and actually marketing the sites that they're available. Not just for businesses and outside employers in our targeted industry sectors, but also for small businesses and entrepreneurs too, who may have value in the land with our primary target being really quality jobs.
 $22.43 an hour to be specific. And if you're familiar with MIT single or living wage, that's the wage for a single parent and a child support themselves in Northwest Arkansas. And some may say that's high, but if you look at the last three or four tax backs proposals that the Chamber of Commerce has brought to you from AEDC, they all would have qualified for that. I'm happy to answer any questions. And I'd also like to note that
 Mr. Steve Clark and Zane Chenault are registered to speak should you have any questions for them. Thank you, Mayor. Okay, there's about how much time is left? About five minutes? Five minutes if they want to add on to the presentation. Right. Zane has his hand up. Perfect. Good evening. I'm Zane Chenault and I live at 2894 East Picasso Place here in Fayetteville.
 I'm here tonight representing the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, and I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. The Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, in partnership with the Northwest Arkansas Economic Development District, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and the City of Fayetteville's Department of Economic Vitality, worked together over many months to secure federal grant from the Economic Development Administration for the road expansion in the City's Commerce District.
 The EDA has approved to match the city's investment of $500,000 with $2 million, as Devin mentioned, generating a 400% return on investment for the city. This grant will fund a road extension in the Commerce District and will immediately open nearly 47 acres of city-owned land for development.
 This area that will be open is ideal for small to medium sized, light scale manufacturing facilities. By creating the opportunity for expansion in the Commerce District, we also create access to higher paying jobs for residents who live nearby. This project will also contribute to the sustainability of a manufacturing base in Fayetteville and will ensure that Fayetteville remains competitive in this space.
 I respectfully ask that you approve this grant application. Thank you. Okay. Mayor, I would like to add one final comment. Yeah. Thank you. We are asking for consideration on this item tonight due to the grant deadline. We have to give a response back to the Economic Development Administration within 30 days of the announcement. So we have until about next week to get a response back to George Aya, the Director of Region 6. Thank you. Okay.
 All right. What questions do we have in the council, either for the chamber or for the staff? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration, broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and residence first and who would like to be first. Peter Thomason. Okay, go ahead. Peter Thomason.
 Mayor, can you hear me? Yes. Peter Thompson, Ward 3. Is every worker and construction worker who is going to work on this project going to be a legal resident? And is every worker and construction worker going to earn $22.43 an hour? And I reserve the rest of my time until I hear some answers. Okay. I know. Okay.
 He can't reserve his time. He can ask us questions and we'll answer them. All right, I'm asking you a question then. Okay. I don't have an answer to that. I mean, does anybody, Devin or anybody, Steve or Zane or...
 Mayor, I'm happy to respond to the latter question in regards to wages. Our stipulation and what we look at with targeting living wage will be for sale of the property. I cannot speak to the wages that a construction company, whoever would be chosen following the city's procurement process with the purchasing division,
 what they would exactly pay. Our statement of living wage targets is for sale of land, which is discounted at $20,000 an acre for companies that we bring to you in the future. Mayor, this is Chris. If you'd like, I could answer the question about construction workers. Okay. Okay.
 This being a federal aid project, there are requirements that all contractors have to comply with federal rules and requirements. Typically, there is a
 minimum wage requirement and it's based on the wage scale of the state of Arkansas. So I don't know what all those wage scales are, but there are requirements for the wages to be paid and the construction companies have to provide certified payrolls and other documentation of who they're paying and what they're paying them. It's an important question to me and a lot of people. My only son is a union iron worker.
 And the ability of Americans who are in the construction business to have their wages protected. I mean, if you're protecting the wages of the people who would buy this property, why would you not protect the wages of anyone who is working on this property or on this project? And I know about the Davis-Bacon law that requires...
 certain wages for, say, when he worked on military bases. But I would like to know before the city passes on this whether all the wages of anybody working on this project are going to be protected, particularly anybody who is an American citizen or a legal American, a lawful American resident.
 I think the citizens and the taxpayers have a right to that information before the city council votes on this issue. Okay. If Mr. Thompson is finished. Ms. Thompson has a minute and 30 seconds. I'll waive the remainder of my time. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address it? Steve Clark. All right. Go ahead. Did I unmute? Yep. All right. Okay.
 Mr. Mayor, this is Steve Clark. This proposal is to take city-owned land and make it easier to acquire for businesses who want to do manufacturing or light manufacturing in the Commerce District of our city. The discussion that has been brought forward about what will the wages be that will be paid is a discussion that's premature for the reason that
 if this is approved, this acceptance of this grant, and we go forward with it, which I urge us to do, you should recognize that before any even one foot of this land changes ownership,
 Those very specific questions can be asked by every member of this city council because the purchaser of this land, whomever that company might be, is still going to have to have your permission because you have to give your authority and your approval of the sale of the land.
 And therefore, the details of how that company is going to operate, what wages they're going to pay, where their employees from what source or from what area or from what background they participate or came to the job, all of those will be questions that, I mean,
 every sale that occurs. And if it's an acre sale, there's gonna be 40 plus. And if it's a five acre sale, it's gonna be eight or nine plus. And if it's a three acre sale, it's gonna be 13 or 14 plus parcels. But each time a parcel is sold,
 Our city council and our mayor will know exactly who's offering to buy it and what they're proposing to do with it. And while they're going to operate the business and what that business is going to pay its employees and all those questions that you routinely ask because of your watching out for the good of our city will be there to be asked again. So the ask tonight is to accept the grant. Thank you.
 and then let us move forward to put the street in and do the things that make the land even easier to develop for people who want to bring jobs to our community whether they're in our community or they're looking to relocate to our community. Okay anything else? All right who else would like to address us? Okay I'm going to bring it back to the city council. This is the resolution. Mayor I'd like to answer Mr. Tonneson's questions really briefly.
 So, Mr. Thomas, if federal money is involved in an arrangement, in whatever contractual arrangement there is, the Service Contract Act,
 requires that a wage determination be made for that area. And then the hourly wage is set. And so whoever that company is has to pay at a minimum that hourly wage. So Chris actually got it right, but it falls under the Service Contract Act. So when federal money is involved. Thank you. Thank you, Tracy. What else do we need to discuss from the council? Or what questions do we have from the council?
 Move we pass the resolution. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. All right. I want to thank everybody for all the work that they have done on this, Devin and Chamber of Commerce and everybody that's worked on this. So it's one of, Devin, it was one of the largest investments that has been received. Is that correct?
 Yes Mayor I believe their term from Mr. Joe Willis the Executive Director of Northwest Arkansas EDD was in recent memory and he's been the director there for a long time. So my congratulations to everybody. This is a good deal. So that all being said, Caravans Police call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggin?
 Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. All right, number seven, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services grant with Garver LLC in the amount of $392,725 per cent to RFQ 20-01-20.
 Selection 21 for the design of the Rolling Hills Drive project to authorize the mayor to acquire the easements and right-of-way necessary for the project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 Transportation Bond Project. Chris? Yes, thank you, Mayor. Rolling Hills Drive between College Avenue and Old Missouri Road is one of our bond projects. It's included in the Phase 1 for design. Okay.
 We recently held a selection committee. Garver was selected as the consultant for this project. Their fee is $392,725. The split of that is about $85,000 for water and sewer relocations. That'll be out of the water and sewer fund. The remainder will be out of the bond program.
 This project is essentially changing the cross-section of the street, actually reducing the width of the street slightly, but providing for a three-lane cross-section typically, and adding wider sidewalks and trails along the roadway, providing space for trees as well. So this design is great.
 intended to be completed as we go into the next phase of construction and the bond program so that we can move forward with construction then. This was also reviewed at the Transportation Committee in October, and the committee recommended approval four to zero, and staff recommends approval as well. Okay. What questions do we have, Chris, on this? Okay, let's take some public comment there.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes duration broken in segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents will speak first. Who would like to speak? All right, I'm going to bring it back to the city council. This is a resolution.
 I have one question real quick. Chris, you mentioned that trails will be along there. I'm assuming those are bike trails. And are those the standard 10-foot width bike trail? Or are those more similar to what is on the old wire road? Right. We do the current cross-section, what we're starting with, and we'll go through, get public comment, and go through the design process. But we're starting with the existing cross-section
 sidewalk on the north side is a six foot sidewalk and essentially that will be left in place and we're planning a 10 foot walk on the south side that will just be a standard multi-use path or wide sidewalk on the south side and again minimum six foot green space on both of those so we can have street trees along the both sides of the road. Thank you very much. Anything else?
 Is this a resolution? I move we adopt the resolution. Second. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez?
 Yes. Mars. Yes. All right. Number eight, a resolution to approve number one, professional engineering service agreement with Olson Incorporated in the amount of $196,190 for engineering services related to the design of the Midtown Corridor project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is another 2019 transportation bond project. Chris. Yes.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This project is in preliminary design and as we've gone through that process, we've got a few design changes and additions to the project. First of all, we had proposed a roundabout at the interchange with I-49 after review of the traffic patterns. It was determined that leaving the signal there and adding another left turn lane would be more appropriate.
 So we're changing that, which actually is a reduction in the fee for less effort for that. As part of the police and fire facility, we have changed the intersection of Porter and Dean from a proposed signal to a roundabout. So basically we took a roundabout away, put one in. And so the design for that roundabout is included in this proposed fee.
 We also, as we went through the conceptual design, we identified an alternative route for the trail as we get east.
 toward the Garland intersection. So going south along a street called Lynn's Place and then going through Tricycle Farms takes us directly into the Sycamore intersection, makes for a much better trail and kind of gets rid of a pinch point that we were gonna have near Garland where some of the houses are close to the street. So the additional survey and design work are needed for that change.
 We also identified the crossing locations and some of the enhancements needed for those crossing locations. So some pedestrian hybrid beacons, flashing beacons and other pedestrian safety items that take a little bit of design effort.
 And lastly, when we started the project, we didn't know exactly how many rights of way we would need, how many properties we would need right-of-way from. We were able to identify that during the preliminary design. And so we have additional services for right-of-way document preparation as part of this phase. So the total fee there is $196,000. It brings the total fee
 $967,000 of which $410,000 is paid from grant funding. So the city's portion is about $550,000. This was also reviewed by the Transportation Committee in October and the committee recommended 4-0. Staff recommends approval as well. Okay, what questions do we have for Chris on this?
 Chris, just so it's recorded, I just want to confirm that the trail is on the north side of Dean Street. Is that correct? That's correct. Generally on the north side. Again, as we get to Lynn's Place, which is about, I don't know, probably three quarters of the way towards Garland, we'll actually be crossing the road going along Lynn's Place and kind of going along the backside of Tricycle Farms that will connect up to Sycamore there. Great. Thank you. Any other questions? Council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration. Wrote in segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residence. Speak first. Who would like to be first tonight? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. Move we pass the resolution. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution.
 Any final comments from the council? It's gonna be a great trail. I wanna thank the staff and everybody's worked on this. Yeah, I'm looking forward to it. Yes, it's gonna be a wonderful trail, y'all. Transportation Committee, everybody that's looked at this and worked on this, it's just gonna be a great trail. Anyway, all right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Gideon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. All right. Number nine, resolution to adopt the 2021 annual budget and work program. Paul, I see you're back. And by the way, excellent job on Saturday presenting the budget. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor and Council.
 We discussed the budget in length at the Saturday work session, which was streamed to the public, streamlined to the public. I'm just going to make a couple of summary comments in regard to the budget. As we discussed at that point in time, we're looking at very, very volatile period as far as revenue going forward. Because of this and because of analysis,
 I don't think, I think things next year are going to be about what they are this year before they really pick up substantially in 2022 or forward. With that in mind, we reduced capital in many of the funds, especially in water and sewer fund, we reduced capital. We reduced the capital budget by over $15 million this year.
 Total budget being presented as $171,844,000. Again, that's down about $15.6 million compared to the prior year's budget. We did reduce operating items. The general fund is $49.5 million. We were able to reduce that by $400,000
 And the budget is currently budgeted at a deficit of $392,000. However, that's very, very close to the balancing. That's very close that we worked on at this point in time. Again, as I'll reiterate, the one thing not in this budget that we talked about that the administration intends to address as soon as we feel it's feasible
 our salary increases for the employees. Remember, we deferred the discussion of salary increases. In March, the administration intends to look at that as soon as feasible and bring something forward, but it's not incorporated in this budget.
 Again, as I would say, the guiding lines of this particular budget are one, things are volatile. We've got to be prepared to adjust if things turn down or if things turn up, then we can look at some other programs.
 So that's how the budget was formulated. Again, the overriding issues that we looked at that the mayor instructed was one, to provide the same level of services as possible going forward, which we believe we have.
 and to address salary increases, if in fact possible, and to keep the city running as efficiently and effectively as possible. With those comments, I'm more than happy to discuss any questions. All right, what questions do we have from the city council on the budget? Okay, well, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. Have five-minute duration. We'll be in segments of three and two. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Federal residents speak first. Who would like to address us? Peter Tonneson. All right. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Can you hear me? Yes. Board three. First of all, again, this is the most important item on the agenda and it's also the last item on the agenda. Secondly, everyone admits this is a period of extreme economic volatility, and yet you have, it's also a period of minimal public involvement because of the burdens of these Zoom meetings and the difficulties that
 that people have, it's a real barrier to involvement. So I think that this definitely should not be passed on three readings and it definitely presents issues that should be made available to the public as much as possible. I would note, I listened to Mr. Becker's presentation Saturday morning.
 I do not understand why the almost 40 pages of exhibits about the budget are not included in the package for this item tonight. It should be. And frankly, I would insist that it is before there's any further discussion. These documents should be made available to the public. Further, there are documents from public library meeting on October 19th.
 I've not been able to find the recording of that meeting, the video recording, I did take screenshots of it, but there are documents from that meeting that need to be made available to the public before we proceed with this. One of the things that Mr. Becker made clear is that sales tax receipts are greater than expected. And that seems to be a revelation
 Although when you think about it, people are still buying food and lots of services, but they're buying them from big box places like Walmart, who are more likely to collect and remit sales tax proceeds maybe than a bunch of little businesses. But although sales tax receipts are good now, even Mr. Becker admits that they could decline and probably will decline. He doesn't really know, no one knows.
 maybe 1.5% next year. So to base a budget on sales tax receipts is, and I realize that's only one element of city revenues, but if you look at other areas, the numbers are way, way, way, way worse. I would note that the city has had, as far as I can see, no layoffs of public employees. And the most you're talking about is maybe having one less future employment
 next year. You want, you're not going to have a planning tech, but you want a half employee for a document manager and a half an employee for an admin assistant.
 I would just point out there are tens of millions of Americans who have either lost their jobs or are about to lose their jobs. 30 to 50 percent of the restaurants in New York City are going out of business. The restaurants in this city are hurting. I continue to live a normal life, and I eat out three to four times a week. And I'm leaving 50 percent tips and better because the restaurant workers here are hurting.
 HMR receipts are way down. And although the Walmarts and the people who contribute to the politicians in this city are doing fine, there are a lot of businesses here who are hurting. And I think it's really rude for public employees to be talking about getting raises when none of them have been laid off, not one.
 And a lot of people in this city are hurting because their own careers are being hurt. And I think unnecessarily hurt by this so-called crisis. This budget issue has been put off till after the election. I think that's wrong. And I don't understand why the city in the consent items has adopted, has taken on for the taxpayers
 $322,000 of construction that should have been adopted by the library and is also gonna pay an additional $561,000 to the library that's presented in this budget as a capital expense, which I don't understand at all.
 I mean, the library foundation was supposed to come up with $23 million. After four years, they've come up with only half of that. And that only because the Tysons just donated $5 million. I see the time, $5 million. So there's a lot more to be said about the library and this budget should not be passed. Okay, who else would like to address? There's nobody else signed up mayor. And I know Paul,
 Announced on Saturday or even maybe the Tuesday before that the budget material was on the website and I just confirmed it is on the website. So I'm not sure what Mr. Tonison's referring to about that. And I just wanted to say, since the city clerk office is the one who handles the public calendar is the budget meeting is set every year, the weekend after Veterans Day. So for every year, as far back as I can see, and being one of the newest members of the team.
 this being my year point, I went back and looked at past budget meetings for 2019 and passed that to get a better understanding of what we're looking at in 2021. So every year that is posted at that time. Okay. Well, I guess I will bring it back to the council. What discussion do we have among the council? Mark. Oh, I'm sorry. Your name popped up.
 Mayor, I would make one comment. I don't believe and it's in response to that statement I don't believe that the answer to our residents in Fayetteville being out of work is to put more of our city employees out of work and so I want to thank you all for working so hard through all of this to make sure that we don't add to the unemployment rolls and that we've kept all of our staff in the city. Thank you.
 working and paid to the best of your ability. So thank you for that. I know it hasn't always been hard or hasn't always been easy, but I think through multiple crises over the year, you've done a great job at it. Thank you very much. So this is a resolution. What is the wishes of the council? I mean, we passed the resolution. Second. Any final comments from the council?
 I really hope that the pandemic subsides so that we can look at those staff raises. They have definitely been through a lot and I look forward to voting for that in the future. Yes, and I hope to be bringing it in. All right. There's not any other discussion. Caravage, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Terg? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Thank you very much, council. I promise you we will see better times. But thank you for your hard work. Paul, thank you for your hard work. Everybody's worked on this budget and we have worked.
 I appreciate that, Mayor. Let's consider, though, that every director, every department head, and certainly the council all work together in putting this budget together. So I also want to thank the staff for their patience in this city with us as we go through this. All right. Thank you all. I don't believe I have anything else. Susan, you have an announcement. No, sir. No, sir. No, no, ma'am. No, sir, for me. All right. Anything else from the council?
 Thank you all. Real good work tonight. We're adjourned.