I would like to call the City Council meeting of November the 17th 2015 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Here. Schottmeyer. Here. Loutier. Present. Long. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here.
 the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the motion to move the
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Loutier? Yes. Long? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. Let's start with that. Mayor, can we confirm that the applicant is here? Yes. Is the applicant here for this? No, it's a planning commission's conditional use. Appeal. Appeal, yes.
 Is that the thing? C8 is what you said? Yes, but now I think the council members want to wait. It's not here, is it here? Okay. So what would you all like to do now? All right, let's go on to consent. Okay, let's do that then. Then we'll come back to this one. All right. Number one, approval of the October 30, 2015 Special City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, resolution to approve a contract with Office Depot Incorporated for the purchase of office supplies pursuant to a Western States Contracting Alliance National Association of State Procurement Officials Cooperative Purchasing Agreement. Number three, resolution to award bid number 15-58 and to authorize the purchase of a prefabricated steel trail bridge from contact...
 engineered solutions LLC in the amount of $87,126 plus split taxes for installation on the town branch trail over town branch creek and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $19,124.16.
 Number four a resolution to approve a contract with Community access television incorporated DBA your media in the amount of 153,570 dollars for the provision of public access television services and the operation of the public access television channel through 2016 contention on approval of the 2016 annual city budget number five a
 A resolution authorizes acceptance of a 2015 Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality grant through the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District in the amount of $8,000 for the purchase of public space recycling containers and to approve budget adjustment.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $414,161, recognizing special needs assistance program grant revenue, and to authorize the addition of two temporary full-time equivalent positions to the Community Resources Division to hire case managers to provide housing services for homeless federal residents.
 And number seven, a resolution to affirm the city's persistent efforts and lengthy commitment to alternative and active transportation infrastructure, road and trail safety, and the protection of all vehicular and vulnerable road users.
 We accept the consent agenda as read. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay. Now I will ask for the direction of the council. Is Kevin Phillips here at this point in time?
 Would you like for me to just continue on until he gets here? And then we'll just fit him in somewhere. If that suits the council. Is everybody good with that? All right. Sorry about that, Jimmy. No problem. All right, under unfinished business.
 Number one, a resolution to reject the recommendation of the urban forester who determined that the tree preservation and mitigation areas and easements and dedications agreed to and signed by the owner-developer on June 25, 2014 should not be vacated or changed by a new development proposal for this acreage. Jeremy?
 The applicant worked since the last city council meeting with urban forestry and planning staff to identify changes within their site plan. Thank you for the council for mentioning some of those changes at the last meeting. Those did result in removal of any impact to the tree preservation area for this project. They have subsequently submitted a letter withdrawing the variance request, and we'd recommend this item be tabled indefinitely.
 So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to table this item indefinitely. Before you do that, I think we should note that it was input from the city council and work by the mayor and the fire chief that enabled this to happen without having to impede upon the tree preservation area. So I think everybody did a good job at the last meeting in making suggestions and following through. So this is a good result for the city. Yes, it is. Okay. Anything else from the council on this?
 We have a motion and a second to table indefinitely. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Lature. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Okay. Under new business, number one. Okay.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5196 for approximately .57 acres located at 3422 North College Avenue from RO Residential Office to C1 Neighborhood Commercial. Kit? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property.
 From residential office to neighborhood commercial, as shown on exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof. In section two, that the city council, the city of Fayetteville, are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Chair. This property is located on an overall two-way street.
 2.2 acre parcel located at 3422 North College Avenue. It also has access drive to Masonic Drive to the south. It's developed with two commercial buildings built in the, constructed in the 1980s, one of which is utilized for retail use. This property is actually split into two zoning districts. The building to the west contains about 15,000 square feet. It's currently zoned C2. The building to the east.
 facing Masonic contains about 10,500 square feet is actually down or a residential office. This request is to simply rezone the building that since sitting on the property there facing Masonic is about half an acre.
 to see one neighborhood commercial staff is supportive of this request the purpose essentially is to be able to utilize this building for retail uses property surrounding this area to the north and east is owned and operated by Christian life Cathedral and utilized for church use and property to also adjacent to this property is the Nissan car dealership Planning Commission voted 9 to 0 in favor of the request as well what questions do we have from Jeremy from the council yes sir
 Jeremy, is there not a form-based zoning classification that would also achieve these same goals? There would be in terms of use. There would not be, however, that would allow for the building to be a conforming structure. So the way it was constructed, the building would automatically be a non-conforming structure. Anything else from the Council on this? Just out of curiosity, what would that zoning classification be, the form-based? Okay.
 It kind of depends on the use that's proposed. A retail use, you could look at almost any of our form-based commercial districts. So community services, Urban Thoroughfare, Downtown General, Main Street Center, Downtown Corp, any of those really would allow for retail type uses. RO does not allow for those retail type uses. Any public comment on this? I think I'm going to bring it back to council. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shomar? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 15-5196 for approximately .57 acres, located at 3422 North College Avenue from RO Residential Office to C1 Neighborhood Commercial.
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Shopmar? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property is described in a rezoning petition RZN 15-5196 for approximately .57 acres located at 3422 North College Avenue from RO Residential Office to C1 Neighborhood Commercial. Any final comments from the council on this? Thank you, sir.
 So there would please cover. Yes, Eddie. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, March. Yes, okay number 2. An ordinance to improve to approve vacation 15 dash 50 to a force submitted by infield group incorporated properly located at 722 South low Saturday vacate portions of alley and street. That's what. The guest longest ordinance we've ever done for vacation.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of the alley and street rights-of-way are not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates portions of alley and street rights-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached here to Section 2. That a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached here to as Exhibit A, shall be filed in the office of Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Section 3 at this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions one Resisting utilities are required to be relocated and new easement dedicated as required by the franchise utilities prior to this vacation taking effect a
 Number two, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any costs associated with relocation or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the expense of the owner or developer. Three, the city shall retain 32 feet of right-of-way from the center line of South Locust Avenue, and a 10-foot utility easement centered on the existing gas main shall be planted and dedicated.
 There are AT&T aerial facilities located on the power poles running north to south of this right-of-way. If the AT&T facilities are required to be relocated, the property owner or developer will be responsible for any fees.
 4. The City shall retain a utility easement for existing water and sewer facilities for the 8th Street right-of-way vacation. And 5. The City shall retain a 20-foot utility easement for sewer facilities in the alley right-of-way vacation. Chairman. Chairman.
 property is located on at 722 south locust avenue which is south of 7th street it is unique in that it's an undeveloped property but it has platted right-of-way on three sides of it there's a proposal for a small-scale redevelopment on this property and the request before you tonight is to vacate portions of rights away on all three sides the request is to vacate 20 feet of right-of-way on the east property boundary which is an unused
 a platted alley, basically a paper right-of-way, never been constructed or utilized. 40 feet of right-of-way on the south property boundary for an unbuilt street connection, originally platted between South School and Church Street, but is not planned for any construction now. And then lastly, a portion of the right-of-way, which currently contains 85 feet of
 right-of-way much larger than our 50 feet requirement that's required for locust street to designate a local street that right-of-way was plotted many many decades ago and is no longer necessary for the street classification that we have for locust staff is supportive of this request as was the planning commission with the conditions of approval that mr williams read
 Okay, what questions do we have for Jeremy on this? Yeah, I might just like to say in the interest of full disclosure There's a proposal I brought forward for a project I'm managing if you have questions staffs unable to answer I'd ask you to leave this on the first reading or table it so that I could have somebody answer those questions in my place Okay. Okay. What questions do we have for Jeremy from the rest of council anything? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? I?
 Okay, I won't bring back to the council if we go to the second reading Second we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading Sondra. Would you please call the roll Kenyon? Yes Tina yes, shot my yes, Luttre. Yes long. Yes. Great. Yes Marsh. Yes. Oh
 In order to approve VAC 15-5204, submitted by Enfield Group Incorporated, for property located at 722 South Locust Avenue, to vacate portions of alley and street rights-of-way. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes.
 In order to approve the AC 15-5204, submitted by Enfield Group Incorporated, we're properly located at 722 South Locust Avenue to vacate portions of alley and street rights-of-way. Any final comments from the council on this? Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, number three.
 In Ordinance to amend 150.02 purpose of the Unified Development Code by enacting further language. Yes. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend Section 150.02 purpose of the Unified Development Code by placing all existing language in Subsection A and enacting a new Subsection B as shown below, Subsection B,
 The primary purpose of the Unified Development Code remains to protect the peace, health, safety, and general welfare of Fayetteville residents by reasonable regulations upon development enacted to promote purposes including but not limited to all statutorily approved purposes found in ACA 14-56-403 Purpose of Plans.
 I had asked Planning to look at the Unified Development Code and look at some of our purpose sections, and Jeremy and his staff did that.
 We have decided to keep the original purpose section, which was pretty good for the general purpose of the Unified Development Code, but I wanted to have this section purpose in there to give our development regulations more protection from any possible challenge, and so that's why I have promoted and recommend this to you, and I'll defer to Jeremy for any comments he might have. Jeremy.
 No real further comments other than we agreed with Mr. Williams to make sure that our purpose statements are clear and adequate for Unified Development Code provisions, and we believe this does so. Okay. Any other questions for the city attorney or Jeremy from the council? Yes, John. This will be for Mr. Williams. Mr. Williams, on several occasions you have admonished the council that we are prohibited by state law from binding future city councils.
 We can't pass a rule or a law today that might bind a future city council five, ten years hence. Can you explain to me how this avoids that pitfall? A future city council can amend this and revoke it if they want to. Same for any rule we pass. Virtually, I would say that's correct. There's very few things at how you can bind your future city council. I agree. But you're the one that's argued that point in several past occasions.
 So we couldn't pass a particular... Well, this is not binding on future city councils. This is a zoning ordinance for the Unified Development Code and will remain in effect until amended or repealed. So that's not binding on a future city council. A future city council could amend it or could repeal it. Exactly what I'll argue next time you make that argument. Well, we're in agreement then. Okay, we do. Thanks. Okay, anything else? Okay, is there any public comment on this? Yes.
 Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Loutier. No. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance demands section 150.02 purpose of the Unified Development Code by enacting further language.
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Loutere. No. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. An ordinance demands section 150.02 purpose of the Unified Development Code by enacting further language. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay, Sondra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shopmar? Yes. Luture? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay, number four.
 An ordinance to amend 160.01, establishment of District 161.10, District RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre, and Table 1, minimum canopy requirements of 167.04, tree preservation and protection during development, all within the Unified Development Code. Yes.
 Whereas minor changes to the Unified Development Code are needed to accommodate the inclusion of RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre as a new zoning district. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council, the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby amends Section 160.01, Establishment of Districts of the Unified Development Code, by adding, quote, RSF-18, Residential Single Family, 18 units per acre, to the list of zoning districts.
 Section 2 at the City Council City of Fable, Arkansas hereby amend section 161.10 district RSF dash 18 residential single-family 18 units per acre of the unified development code by adding quote unit 44 cottage housing development unquote to the conditional uses allowed in section 3
 at the city council city of fayetteville are hereby amend section 16704 tree preservation and protection during development by adding quote rsf-18 residential single family 18 units per acre to table one minimum canopy requirements and as jeremy will add this means that the minimum canopy requirements are similar to other residential single family units which is 20 20 hey jeremy last
 Last month, you may remember the council adopted a brand new zoning district called RSF 18. This is a residential single family, 18 units per acre, which is a moderately high zoning district for single family development. This is another option for developers to utilize and request as part of the zoning toolbox that had been requested by the development community, but also by council members as another tool.
 in order to fully realize the potential for this particular zoning district now that it's adopted we have a few minor additions to make sure it's incorporated throughout our code there are primarily three additions one is to add it simply to the zoning district chart in chapter 160. in chapter 161 we'd like to add use unit 44 which is cottage cottage housing developments as a conditional use permit we allow those those types of developments as a conditional use permit in our other single family zones as well
 And then lastly, as Kit mentioned, we would add RSF 18 to the tree preservation chart, which all of our zoning districts have a certain percentage of tree preservation canopy, a percent minimum canopy. This would fall in line with those at 20 percent consistent with zoning districts of a similar density. Staff's recommending approval of these ordinance amendments. Any questions for Jeremy? Any public comment on this? Okay. We suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Shotmar? Lutour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. In Ordinance to Amend Section 160.01, Establishment of District, Section 161.10, District RSF 18, Residential Single Family 18 Units per Acre.
 table one minimum canopy requirements of section 167 oh for tree preservation and protection during development all within the Unified Development Code second motion is second go to the third and final reading Sandra would you please call the roll Kenyon yes Eddie yes yes yes yes yes yes
 In Orders to Mend Section 160.01 Establishment of District Section 161.10 District RSF-18 Residential Single Family 18 Units per Acre and Table 1 Minimum Canopy Requirements of Section 167.04 Tree Preservation and Protection during Development all within the Unified Development Code. Okay, I certainly want to thank the staff for their work on this. This is a looking piece of legislation I think.
 What final comments do we have? Yes, John. I'd like to echo the mayor's gratitude. I love it when the staff makes additional options for developers. I hate for people to come and want to engage in a building project and have to fit into some
 Round peg in a square hole or square peg in a round hole the more options we have the greater latitude They'll have the greater chance. We have developing getting you tax base getting new citizens new services for the existing citizens I like it a lot. Thank you Alright
 Kenyon, yes. Petty, yes. Tennant, yes. Schottmeyer, yes. LeTour, yes. Long, yes. Gray, yes. Marsh, yes. Okay, number five. An ordinance to amend Chapter 97, Parks and Recreation, the Federal City Code to allow 24-hour access to shared-use paved trails to add lease requirements for animals in certain parks to prohibit certain activities in parks, including unauthorized vehicle operation, use of paddle boards on city lakes...
 and shooting of model rockets to provide for certain activities in parks, including camping, horseback riding, limited vending at park events, and hosting of temporary signs and to make other technical revisions. Kip. Thank you.
 Whereas certain sections of the Parks and Recreation chapter of the Fayetteville City Code should be updated to provide for certain activities that are appropriate for city parks, to prohibit other activities, and to make technical corrections. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals Chapter 97, Parks and Recreation of the Fayetteville City Code, and enact a replacement Chapter 97 as shown in Exhibit A attached here, too.
 Okay, Jeremy. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Connie. Connie Edmonston, Fayetteville Parks and Recreation Director. Good evening. Thank you for giving us this opportunity to update some of our park ordinances. There are several that just need to have some changes. These amendments did go before our Parks and Recreation Advisory Board at their November meeting, and they approved these changes too. Okay.
 I'm going to go over some of the more significant changes. One is in the operating hours. Currently, our ordinances state that our parks open at daylight and they close at 11 p.m. And that's not only our parks, but it's also our trails. The only exception to that is Lake Bayville and Lake Sequoia boat dock marinas that open and close at sunrise and sunset.
 The trails serve as part of our transportation system and we would like for them to be open 24 hours a day. So, therefore, we need to amend and distinguish that the shared use paved trails to be open 24 hours instead of closing 11. And they will be designated on a parks and trail interactive map on our city's website.
 the gs map gis map will show the trails that are open 24 hours a day in a specific trouble in a specific color and the other trails closing 11 p.m in another in another color uh trails located within our city parks or that have short distance uh would close at 11 p.m these parks would include wilson park gully park davis park walker park
 The trail surrounding the adult center, Holland Park, Raven Park, Goalie Park Trail on Azalea Terrace, and Clabber Creek Trail and Ham Street Trail. When these parks are fully developed and we link them into our trail system, then at that point in time we would designate them as a shared use trail and their color on the GIS map would change so that people could utilize those trails 24 hours a day.
 Also note that our nature trails would be open daylight to 11 p.m. Another section that we changed was 97.38, animals to be leashed.
 We would add the same wording pretty much as what we had in Chapter 92, animals being on leash and pet owners picking up after their own pets has been a problem in our parks, and we wanted to have this also in our ordinance. The only exception for dogs to be off leash would be at our dog parks that are designated as dog parks and also at Lake Wilson Park.
 Section 97.66, hunting and firearms. We added beavers to the list of masquerades and other burrowing animals that may be trapped on city reservoirs and waterways upon approval of the mayor for the protection of the dams. Waterways was also added to reservoirs in that area.
 97.68 camping prohibited we wanted to add language that would permit camping at Lake Sequoia for like a boy scout group or other groups that have park work days or have designated work programs that they work on in our parks.
 We would also like to add in this section that tournament directors for sanctioned tournaments such as soccer, softball, baseball, and horseshoes be allowed to camp at their facility, including Walker Park, White River, Gary Hampton, Lake Fayetteville, or the new regional park, in which extra security is needed for those tournaments and storage of tournament supplies. Thank you.
 Also, the RV or camper that they usually bring in for those tournaments provide a meeting place for the participants.
 Section 97.69, horseback riding, we would omit Combs Park from being a designated bridle path due to its close proximity of a model airplane club. And we would also add in there to designated bridle trails will be added to our park system where appropriate and saved and approved by Parks and Recreation Director. Thank you.
 And right now we're currently working with the Lake Sequoia Riding Club in establishing some bridal trails at Lake Sequoia.
 Section 97.7, recreation activities at Lake Fayetteville and Lake Sequoia and Wilson. We added that fishing is also permitted on designated docks at Lake Fayetteville. Docks in which we store our boats, in which people rent those stalls, would be excluded from being used as a fishing dock due to security of people's private boats.
 Weighting, swimming or billy boats are not permitted on our lakes. Paddle boats was also added to the list because of the no swimming weighting policy that we have. The water quality and the size of the lake and launching area in respect to the logistics of paddle boarding. Paddle boarding, there is a high probability that they do enter the water.
 The public schools currently utilize the pontoon boat for part of their educational program at Lake Fayetteville, so we needed to add that we would allow them to dock their boat at the Lake Fayetteville Environmental Study Center. 97.85, vending and peddling. This section was modified so that we could accommodate the Gully Park concerts as well as special events.
 uh... offered by parks department we added that performance and hopes that they would be able to sell approved merchandise and also we left uh... added a section to allow organizations that the city directly funds such as the fayetteville boys and girls club the adult center the library event sponsors and also the non-profit friends of parks fayetteville parks to be able to set up a table and to distribute information
 at our park events at no charge, if approved by us in advance. That's 97.88, signs prohibited, would allow adopt-a-park or trail groups to post a sign while they're active working in a park project that provides information about their organization. A good example of that were the greedy goats that worked at Wilson Park. There are several other amendments that...
 that we made minor technical or stylistic changes that were noted in the chapter. Do you have any questions on this? Okay. Yes, Al. I have a question on section 93.0. I'll get to it. I'm sorry. Yes, .038, the animals to be leashed. Has any consideration been given? I think this is great that we're going to require them to be leashed, but it does say that...
 animals are allowed to be off their leash in designated dog parks in Lake Wilson Park. I think it may be a good time since we're reviewing this to add a restriction there that to say that if an animal's been deemed as dangerous or violent aggressive as mentioned in Chapter 92 of our animal code that they should also be leashed in those parks. Would that be something that... We could add that language. I'll make a motion that
 On 97.038, animals to be leashed, that if an animal has been classified as a dangerous animal or a violent animal as written in Chapter 92 of our animal codes, that they should not be allowed to be off leash in those parks. Okay. So an aggressive animal would not be allowed to be without a leash? Correct.
 in the areas where unleashed dogs are allowed. Correct. Yeah, I got it. But all other areas would be leased. So an aggressive animal should be leased at all times. Mm-hmm. Correct. Basically, it's just clarifying that. Correct. I second Alan's motion. What discussion do we have on the amendment? I think prior to actually adopting this, we ought to probably- Get all the amendments?
 No, I'm thinking that it might be good to actually have us go back and work on that and make sure we have the language exactly as we like it. I also did send you all a memo talking about a slight revision of 97.38 because the first proposal needed a little work on the last sentence. And so I proposed some language there, but I will, assuming this amendment passes, I
 that into this section also. I'd like to have a nice clean exhibit to be able to give you all before it's passed. Good. I just would sort of like to know what everybody would like to add to this so we got something to work with. I mean, there may be more. There is one amendment, I think. Yeah, and I'm just asking if there's anything else that anybody sees or do we need to do this first and then go to the next one? I mean, however you want to do it. I don't care. It doesn't matter to me.
 Hmm? Okay. Uh, let's start with this one. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring this one back. I move we table the ordinance for two weeks. Well, why don't we, I'd like to know that you all want to approve this amendment so that I can go back and work on it and make sure I've got it right. Okay. Well, let's vote on this amendment and then we will- Let me just leave it on the first reading.
 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I
 said ordinances so okay let's move on the next time number six an ordinance to man 73.04 riding on roadways and bicycle paths to revive for the safe operation of bicycles on roadways and bicycle paths and to amend 73.05 riding on sidewalks provide for the safe operation of bicycles on side
 Whereas the Northwest Arkansas bicycle and pedestrian master plan and the League of American bicyclists recommend the passage of a local or of local ordinances encouraging a safe operation of bicycles on roadways and in dedicated bike lanes rather Than sidewalks for the safety of bicyclists and pedestrians now Therefore it being ordained by the City Council of City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal section 73.04 of
 of the Fayetteville City Code and enacts replacement Section 7304 as follows. Section 7304, riding on roadways and bicycle lanes. Subsection A, any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at a speed slower than the flow of traffic shall ride in the right lane as far as to the right as is safe. A bicyclist may leave his position to turn left, pass, or for any safety reasons.
 Subsection B, bicyclists shall use bicycle lanes when available and may only use vehicle lanes as needed to turn left, pass, or for any safety reasons. Subsection C, persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast. Persons riding bicycles two abreast shall not unduly impede the normal movement of traffic and shall ride within a single lane.
 unquote section two the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby repeals section 73.05 of the fable city code and an actual replacement section 7305 as follows subsection a any individual operating a bicycle upon a sidewalk shall yield the right of way to pedestrians and shall give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a pedestrian
 Subsection B, no person shall operate a bicycle upon a sidewalk which abuts a building when riding on the sidewalk would endanger pedestrians or where operation of a bicycle on a sidewalk is prohibited by an official traffic control device. In subsection C, any individual operating a bicycle within a pedestrian crosswalk must yield the right of way to a motor vehicle and pedestrians. To earn the protection of a pedestrian, an individual must dismount...
 Walk the bicycle and abate applicable traffic control devices. Okay. Peter. Good evening, Mayor and Council. The League of American Bicyclists has identified five E's that are essential elements across
 that are consistent in making great places for active transportation. Those E's are engineering, education, encouragement, evaluation and planning, and enforcement. The fifth E, enforcement, is critically important to helping ensure the safety of our roadways, trails, and sidewalks.
 The package of ordinance amendments before you has been developed with recommendations from the City of Fayetteville staff, the Northwest Arkansas Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan, and the League of American Bicyclists Bicycle Friendly Community Feedback Process to the City of Fayetteville. The first area of recommended code revision is in Chapter 7304, Riding on Roadways and Bicycle Paths.
 This section of code has commonly been referred to as the mandatory side path law and it requires cyclists to use a side path where provided instead of riding in the roadway. Cyclists and safety advocates are encouraging communities across the country to move away from these types of laws that were enacted over the past 30 years.
 They feel that these laws should be repealed because cyclists should have an equal share to the road and riding on the road is almost always safer for cyclists and pedestrians when the path is a shared use path between cyclists and pedestrians.
 As I mentioned, many of these ordinances are being repealed across the country. There are currently only seven states that have mandatory side path laws. Arkansas does not have a mandatory side path law, but the city of Fayetteville does have one that was enacted in 1965. The second area of code revision is in Chapter 7305, riding on sidewalks.
 Currently, the city's riding on sidewalks law is somewhat confusing because it regulates where you may and may not ride on a sidewalk based on the classification of the street that the sidewalk is adjacent to, so the proposed revisions would clarify that.
 to specify where you can and cannot ride on a sidewalk based on whether or not a building abuts the actual sidewalk. So essentially the revisions would make it legal to ride on sidewalks almost everywhere except for where the building face is adjacent to the sidewalk, and the rationale behind that is because if you have a building face up close to the sidewalk—
 pedestrian walking out of that building, potentially walking into harm's way of a cyclist traveling down the sidewalk. So that's the rationale behind that revision.
 In your packet there are two versions of the code amendments. The chapter 7305 riding on sidewalks section is the same. It's identical in both versions. The chapter 7304 versions riding on roadways and bicycle paths, there's two different versions there. One that was prepared by the city attorney's office and then a second version that incorporates some feedback that we received from the League of American Cyclists.
 Initially, both versions were presented at the Active Transportation Advisory Committee on September 2nd, and then both versions were presented again to the Active Transportation Advisory Committee on November 3rd. At that meeting, the Active Transportation Advisory Committee asked that these items be held on the first reading to allow more time for feedback and additional consideration
 other items to be included in the revisions. Related to that, there was a letter that was submitted today by the Bicycle Coalition of the Ozarks asking for some additional consideration of changes and incorporated items to be included in these revisions. With that, I'll answer any questions. What questions do we have for Peter on this? Yes, John. Just from my own personal education and legality of driving with bicyclists,
 If we're going uphill and the bicyclist is pedaling his or her heart out and trying to get up that hill, going very slow, and I can safely pass in my lane, am I allowed to do that? I believe that there's nothing in the law that would not allow you to do that. So, yes, you would be allowed to do that. Even if there's a double yellow line? Well, I don't... Not changing lanes. In your lane, you're not crossing it. That's correct. Right.
 I would have to defer to the police. I think a lot of people have that question. We don't want to endanger bicyclists, but we're not quite sure that we want to drive two miles an hour while they're going up the hill. It's also a great point. The idea behind the clarifications here is to create more clear rules that
 clearly articulate where it is legal for the cyclist to ride, how the motorist is legally allowed to operate near that cyclist so that each can operate safely and efficiently. Okay. Thank you. Yes, Sal. Well, and I think to your point, John, and Peter, you can correct me if I'm wrong, but I think as Fayetteville starts to have more complete streets that we'll see that being less of a problem.
 I mean, we've made significant progress in the last eight years, I would say. Yeah, we have. Certainly, ideally providing adequate and safe facilities for cyclists to operate in is a definite consideration as part of Complete Streets and certainly a priority in many of our street improvement projects.
 I see the Active Transportation Committee recommended the somewhat longer version. We actually have scheduled a special meeting on December 2nd to take a more in-depth look at this. The concern is that this will probably be used as model legislation throughout the state, so we really want to get it right since it will probably be duplicated. Matthew, I'm sorry. You had a question. Well, I guess in light of that, my question is does the committee anticipate recommending something other than the model language?
 I think that we weren't given the opportunity to review it early enough to make a determination and we just wanted to have time to properly evaluate the model language before we made
 Are we hurting anything by waiting until after their special meeting? No, I don't think so. Yeah, then I would, that would be fine with me. Leave it. Is that good? It looks like this has been on the books for about 50 years, so I don't think there's any . Making sure. 1965, yeah. Right. Maybe for those cars. And if anybody has any, do have any public comments, you can address this now, but this is going to be held up for, not held up, but it's going to be.
 couple weeks anyway. Thank you, Mary. My name is Paxton Roberts. I'm the executive director of the Bicycle Coalition of the Ozarks and also a member of the ATAC, Active Transportation Committee. I'd like to thank the city council and the mayor for its efforts over many years of making this community more bicycle friendly and we applaud this effort to revise the current ordinance as it is very outdated.
 and we think we can make a lot more progress on it and take a look at what is the latest best practice across the nation and really set the city. Right now it has a bronze level bicycle friendly community status. We wanna see it achieve silver and someday gold and platinum. And so let's come up with an ordinance that'll carry us through the next several decades and set an example not just in Northwest Arkansas but across the state. So thank you. Anybody else?
 Okay, we'll bring back the council. I guess we leave it here on the first reading there So good. All right number seven the resolution to adopt the 2016 annual budget and work program Good evening mayor and council this is the 2016 budget and
 being proposed. We had a productive work session Saturday where we discussed many of the highlights. I'll just mention a couple highlights of this particular budget. I think the overriding highlight of this budget is 26 and a half newly funded positions included. Eight for police, 11 for fire, 18 and a half new positions,
 are actually new, fully funded, eight were previously frozen positions. Total budget is $147.2 million. That's up $2 million from the previous budget of $145 million. That's 1.4% increase in total.
 Now if we look at just the operating side, that's up about 3.7% and that's generally driven by the increased salaries both by new positions, newly funded positions, and the salary increases that were granted to employees in April of this year.
 This budget does not include salary increases for 2016. That we will discuss at the end of the first quarter, which is how we have been handling salary increases in the past years once we see how we close out fiscal 2015 and see how the revenue is coming in for 2016.
 34% of the total budget is personnel costs. So over a third of the budget relates to personnel costs. Out of the $147 million, $18 million of that is in new capital outlay.
 So that's to continue with the capital program. Now again in approximately January and February, we'll come forward with the current capital projects and infrastructure projects underway to be included in this budget. And that will be somewhere in the $70 million range. That'll be all the bond projects, et cetera, coming forward, grants that have been uncompleted and contracts that we have entered into that have not been completed.
 If we look at the major funds, general funds, $41.3 million, which is up $3.2 million from last year, primarily driven by new employees added to public safety.
 Water and sewer is $36.9 million, roughly $37 million. That's our second largest fund. Our third largest fund is actually the sales tax debt service fund. That is the sales tax, the one penny sales tax, which is collected, which pays for the bond issues, which have paid for our infrastructure programs as approved back in 2006 by the voter.
 essentially at that time, monies were approved, 110 million dollars worth of bonds were approved to complete the west side water treatment plant plus upgrades in the lines associated with that, over 59 million dollars worth of road construction programs and 2 million dollars worth of trails.
 Of those three funds, General Fund, Water and Sewer Fund, and the debt service funds to pay for the bonds, outstanding for those infrastructure improvements, that's about two-thirds of the entire budget, so just made up of those three funds. Now, when we look at the General Fund again, I'll reiterate, we're up $3.2 million compared to last year.
 Two and a half million dollars out of personnel associated costs. Those are increases in personnel, those are increases in insurance costs, and those are increases for the raises that were approved by you in 2015 back in April.
 Also included in that are additional monies and contractual obligations, largest of which is $185,000 to the central ambulance service so they can meet their call volume, excuse me, their call matrix, time matrix.
 We also have $100,000 in the general fund budget for a compensation study to look at the compensation plan here at the city and make sure that it is up to date. Very important for us to retain current employees and also encourage people to apply for open positions as they incur. Also there's $55,000 for election costs. Next year will be an election year.
 That's roughly what I would hit at the highlights. Again, we discussed a lot of these issues. Saturday, I think we had a good discussion. I tried to hit as many of the highlights as I could. We had a good and open discussion about some of the concerns that we had going forward and some of the concerns that the council members had going forward. And with that, that's in summary what I have to say of the budget and I'll be happy to take questions. What questions do we have to follow up?
 Okay, what public comment do we have? Okay, I will bring it back to the council. I move we pass the resolution. Second. Who wants a second? Matthew Petty. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. What discussion do we have?
 I'm normally we wait on these things but I recall a couple times in the past few years were that's on the first time I think there's another one of those nights personally I mean my seventh year on the council I think is one of the best budgets I've seen come forward of course we're not in the middle of recession this time it's just a little easier very true but I want to commend the mayor I think he did a good job in bringing us a budget this year and I think it's worthy of our vote thank you Matthew any other comments
 All right, Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Lutour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Thank you, Council.
 Okay, number eight. Mayor, if I could make just one quick comment. I know I do this every year at this time, but I want to thank Paul Becker and his accounting and finance team and all of our city department and division leaders who work very hard to try to provide you a budget that meets the needs of the citizens at the best use of our funds. So thank them for their work. All right, number eight. We were going to do number one, but we're...
 Mr. Phillips here. Is Mr. Phillips here? Okay, thank you. All right.
 Number eight, resolution to grant the appeal of Alderman Justin Tennant, Martin Schottmeyer, and John Latour of the conditional use CUP 15-5217, 2684 North Old Wire Road, Appleseeds, Incorporated, granted by the Planning Commission on October 26, 2015, and to deny the conditional use or to return the conditional use to the Planning Commission for renewed consideration. I
 I suppose Justin, you will. May I say something very quickly? Yes, certainly. So I want to thank the council and the staff's time here to bring this back. I'm not a big fan of once something is voted on and finished to bring it back, but I do think there are some extenuating circumstances here that gives the applicant reason to be heard. I will let him...
 I'm not a person that does that. I think you all know that. But in this particular case, I think we can listen to the applicant. It doesn't necessarily change anybody's mind up here of what we've already voted on. But I will leave that up to us at the end of this. So I appreciate everyone taking the time. Sure. Marty, do you want to say anything? John? I think we're going to have to wait a little bit longer. I think we're going to have to wait a little bit longer. I think we're going to have to wait a little bit longer.
 you've heard it all before mayor i believe the landowner has the best perspective on what should be done with his land or her land so that's why i voted to bring it back okay mr phillips would you like to address this tonight yes sir my name is kevin phillips i've been a resident of fayetteville my entire life which is 50 plus years now my family's been here for longer than that and they're the property that we're speaking of my family bought it in 65 and
 my other or my mother's family before her actually owned it since the 40s. So Mayor Jordan, Alderman Tennant, Alderman Schottmeyer, and Alderman Latour, I appreciate you giving me the chance to come up and speak. First, I need to ask, has everybody read the letter that I sent to them? Okay, so I don't need to rehash all that. It's been a tough year for me.
 With my mom dying in January and the fire in February, which has basically destroyed the house for the most part. Everyone has said it's unrepairable. It's been a tough year. So me and my wife have been trying to move on. Because this time last year, I probably would have said I would like to live on that property because that's where I grew up. Now what's happened, things have changed. But if what was agreed upon...
 by the council and so forth would have been done, I would have really caused pause to want to live there. The Dunns were my next-door neighbors for years and years. In fact, I was with him the day that he died, Mr. Alan Dunn, and that was his land, the 10 acres that was expanded into Gully Park. I know his true wish was that it would be just a park.
 I also know that he was a farmer and that he would appreciate it being a farm, but I'm not sure how he would feel about his property being a business. Floyd Gulley and Sam Gulley were adopted grandparents of mine down the street. Those 40 and 10 acres were where I grew up. So it's very personal to me, beyond business, as far as selling a piece of property.
 I do not believe that Mr. Dunn nor his family, and I know that for a fact, would like for the land they sold to be a city park to be used for anything other than a city park to be used by all the citizens of Fayetteville and the surrounding communities. I know that for a fact. I also know that the folks in the Friends of Gully Park, which I've spoken to several of them, were very disappointed. I know that.
 in the decision that was made for the efforts that they made in order to raise money to help the city buy that property. I also know business is business, okay? And when me and my wife decided after probate was finished in the end of August on my mom's property that we had no desire to move back into that property that we wanted to sell it. I had a potential buyer we had a closing set for
 Three weeks ago this coming Thursday or two weeks ago past Thursday. Had a closing set. They were going to pay cash. They were a family that wanted to build a house in order. They were an elderly couple that wanted to build their last house of their life. They wanted to build that house on that property and raise their grandkids. The Wednesday before that Thursday, he called me and said that we put everything on postponement.
 I had the closing agent was done, everything was done. I was within 16 hours of closing on that property, and they called and canceled it because they were concerned about a business and something going on next door. The problem I have now is I was never notified by mail, or if I was notified, it never came to my house. Certainly not certified mail. I never had any understanding of what was going on.
 And I don't go to that property unless I absolutely have to because it's heartbreaking. I don't want to go over there. I don't want to see a burned house where my sister died. So I don't go over there and see a red sign that says that there's a hearing. I had no idea it was happening because had I known that, I would have been here and I would have complained. I can assure you. So I never received notice of what was going on.
 And next thing I know, on that Wednesday before the Thursday closing, my potential buyer called me and said, we just read this in the paper, or I, actually, he was only over there cutting bugs out of the trees to try to salvage some of the trees and saw the red sign laying down in the ground, and that's the only reason he found out about this. And he called me. So my sale is on hold. We were done. We were walking away from it, and I was getting ready to move on with my life, and it was stopped. So...
 I'm not particularly happy with that. I mean, I would like to see the whole thing stopped and the whole neighborhood remain as a neighborhood. No businesses, nothing. The 10 acres of what I grew up in, I want to see it stay as a park. But if that can't occur, would you please make sure that they are not allowed to put
 their gardening area, whatever it is, whether it has lights, whether it has fences, whatever it is. I don't know. I spoke to her, one of their administrators outside during this meeting, trying to clarify what's going on. And I appreciate what they're trying to do. I really do.
 But can you please at least make sure that their area is not directly east of my mother's property? And I say my mother's. It's mine now, and she's gone, and I'm trying to understand that. But I don't want it behind my property, and I would prefer to have a petition fence between the two, which will be a residence at some point in that business. I just think it's only right. And why I didn't get notified can't attest to that.
 I don't understand why it's not sent by certified mail. I know maybe that's something we can look at in the future for your city. But that's, you know, like I said, I've lived in Fayetteville my entire life. I'm not moving away. I'm going to live here until I die. So I appreciate you all taking the time to listen to me, and I would appreciate your consideration on this problem. Okay. What questions do we have, Mr. Filker?
 I have one. So just to clarify, you were notified by mail or you never saw a piece of mail? Never saw a piece of mail. No, sir. So my question, and I'm not saying city staff did anything that wasn't processed. My question is more about the process. Do we require a signature? No.
 in these sort of things we do so there are three basic forms of notification um a public notification for an item there's posting of a sign public notice in newspaper and also for mailing of notice for this particular property owners of 2650 old wire road it was mailed to 6149 greens chapel road and that's what's listed basically as the address we use the assessor's office as the address i don't know if that's the correct actor and that is the correct actress
 And then essentially what we do is we require the applicant to sign a certification indicating there's a map in your packet showing all the notifications that were sent for that. We used to use certified mail. We actually got numerous complaints from residents because they have to go to the post office and sign for that certified mail, and so oftentimes they would get it.
 weeks later because they simply didn't have time to go to the physical post office. So, the council changed that ordinance, I believe in 2005, to send it first class mail and we require this certification that the mail was at least sent. But there's no certification that is actually received at the address, correct? That's correct. Okay. Okay. Do we have anything else from Mr. Phelps? No. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Phelps. I don't think so. Thank you, Mr. Phelps. Thank you, sir.
 Good evening. I'm Mary Thompson, one of the co-directors of Apple Seeds. Thank you for recently approving the purchase of the property and the lease of the acres to us. We appreciate that. I feel for you, Mr. Phillips. It's a very heartfelt story, and we are not intending to do anything that would lower the value of anybody's property. Thank you.
 Our mission is actually really similar to what the Dunn family that he mentioned and the Gulley family. They were gardeners, they preserved the land, they had chickens, they did the things that we are now teaching children to do. So I realize it is personal, but I also feel like we're allowing this cherished childhood to happen from all the kids in Fayetteville. So I feel there's a really common tie in the irony of it all. And in regards to the letters, we got
 We sent out letters to all of the adjacent and nearby property owners, and that letter was sent on October 7th. Are there any questions regarding apple seeds and our request for conditional use permit? Sure. Al? I have a quick question. Yes. So based on the approval that we did make,
 already give What things has apple seeds set in motion? Well that gave we have there were two contingencies on that approval one was for the conditional use permit and for the lease So the conditional use permit was what was approved by the Planning Commission So that was the most recent step and then we are scheduled to close on November 30th So we've been working with the bank for financing when I guess
 When I say set in motion, I mean plans that you've made for the property. What exactly? Do you have more detailed information? Not yet. The master plan remains as it was in that initial document. The proposal remains the same.
 The conditional permit was requesting that we operate a business there. It would be a standard business hours during the weekdays from 8 to 5 for the office. Our students come out typically on Tuesday through Thursday from 9 to 11 a.m., so it's during the workday, workweeks. It's not much of an interference to the neighbors in that regard. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes, ma'am.
 One of the reasons I was attracted to the or voted for this originally was because of Ricky doing the schools and There seems to be some question about whether or not this lease will be a benefit to the public So I wanted to give you I wanted to ask you to please describe what? programs this land would be supporting and
 Yes, so we primarily benefit the students of Fayetteville Public School District, so the students that live in Fayetteville. And then we're also offering two workshops to the community throughout the year, and we'd be open on Saturdays from 9 until 12, open to the public. And even during the work week when we're there, the gates can be open and people can stop in, so it's not like it's closed off and shut off to people all the time. When you say you benefit the schools, what do you mean?
 The students come out for field trips, and they harvest, they prepare food, we integrate math, science, and literacy into the curriculum, so they're out there gardening and consuming fresh fruits and vegetables, inspiring them to eat nutritious food.
 Healthy food we also grow produce that goes back to Fayetteville public school district We grow produce that goes to the schools for them to sell for the students to hold their own farmers markets So we work with schools to support school gardens. Everything that we do is to benefit the students Explain to me how you're funded we charge students I
 No, no we don't. We are funded, we're a non-profit, we're funded by donations from individuals, from local businesses and foundations are our primary sources of income. Does the city give you any money? We have not received money from the city, no. Does the school district? We've had...
 For produce, there's a small fee for produce. The school district pays for the produce that they get. Would you sell your produce privately if I wanted to buy tomatoes from you? Would you sell them to me? No, it's anything that benefits students. Even if I offered you twice what they were? John really likes tomatoes. He really does. He talks about them all the time. I grow my own, thank you. Good. So much for that market.
 Thank you for your answers. Are there any other questions? Thank you, Mayor. Who else would like to address this? Hello, Council. My name is Brandon Allen, and I am a current resident at 2667 North Old Wire across the street from where Appleseeds is wanting to go. I have been a volunteer for Appleseeds, and I think they are a great program, and I am very excited for them to move across the street.
 That's pretty much all I have to say. Thank you. I have a question. Yes, sir. Do you see that the activity that will be brought in this nonprofit would in any way impair the value of your property? Not at all. The comings, the goings, the hours of operation? Old Wire is a pretty busy street to begin with. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this?
 My name is Brittany Schrock. I actually work for the Bicycle Coalition of the Ozarks as a program director. And one of the points that came to mind when we were talking about this is the concern of lowering a property value and not being able to sell. It's a concern that we've heard pretty recently over the past couple years with the construction of the Razorback Greenway.
 A lot of times we kind of get stuck in a certain size peg. You know, we want to put that round peg in the square hole. And so a lot of people were apprehensive about the greenway at first. And the same thing can be said here.
 Having a garden to look at that is being maintained and is beautiful and growing in chickens that I don't have to take care of, but somebody else is doing it beautifully is an awesome asset to our community. I have an eight-year-old also that has participated in apple seeds activities, and as soon as she got home, she wanted to grow things. She wanted to try foods at the farmers market.
 And so that's a really big impact as a parent that I wasn't being able to make to get her eat these vegetables. But just having one day of spending time in the dirt and then going and seeing the same things at the farmer's market, it made that connection for her and it made the food real. So I just want to throw some support and encourage you guys to keep looking outside the box and see the property value could actually increase with something like this nearby. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us on this? Hello. My name's Dana Smith. I'm at 2832 North Centerwood Road. And I'm the environmental education coordinator for Fayetteville Public Schools. And I also live within a mile of the property that we're talking about and was a donor to Friends of Gully Park as well.
 um so coming from a few different perspectives but i especially wanted to address councilman petty's comments about how does this benefit the community so as a school employee that might seem like a jump but i've worked very closely with apple seeds for the past several years we have school gardens at all of our elementary schools
 um within the school district thanks in no small part to the support and work of apple seeds and we also now are working closely with them to do field trips to provide those hands-on learning opportunities for our students
 So we can definitely see the opportunity here for students learning about healthy eating, having hands-on learning, ties to the curriculum. I think that the really important part though is that what we're doing is teaching healthy life skills for our students and for their families. So you just heard a story about a student who goes home and talks to their parents and wants to do more. We hear that every day.
 We hear it all the time that students are taking information that they've learned in school or learned through opportunities like a farm field trip and going home and influencing their parents with the decisions that they're making and also with the decisions that they'll make really for the rest of their lives.
 So, I feel like this is a huge opportunity to expand our reach as a city and as a community to promote and encourage healthy living and healthy lifestyles. I think in the long run, this actually greatly benefits the community and the health of our community and also improves the quality of life through that education and also through having this as a community resource. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Mary, we usually give everybody one time to mark the list. The council member wants to bring you back up. Mayor, I would like to bring her back up. Okay. Come on. Thank you. I also have a letter from two real estate agents addressing the value of the property. This is from Kathy Ball from Lindsay & Associates as well as Mark Brewer from Real Assets. Their value of the property, I'll read from the letter what they said.
 Taking into consideration the city appraisals from 2014 and the most recent sale of 2634 old wire for 111 thousand five hundred dollars as well as the pending sale of 2648 old wire for 200,000 We believe the value of this property will show an increase and he should be able to sell his remaining house For a lot more than what he has been asking Thank you Anyone else? Okay. I will bring it back to the council. I
 I have a question. Sure. This is actually for Kit, for the city attorney. Do you have a legal concern here if we were to, or is there any legal concerns since we've already approved something and they've already set things in motion if we were to do this? Not saying we're going to, but if we do, does that pose a legal problem that we'd get the city into? There's a minor concern there, but they have not actually gone to closing yet. They have not purchased the property.
 And I, even though you all approved the lease of the two acres, I would imagine that that has not happened yet. Either we haven't signed the lease agreement, because if, if the mayor had already signed the lease agreement, then we really couldn't go back on that. Right. I wasn't sure. So I think everything at this point is, is still tentative. It is, um.
 It's kind of unusual that we would, or that you would, excuse me, approve a sale knowing the conditions are, one of them is a conditional use request, which then gets approved by the Planning Commission and then comes back here if it was disapproved by the City Council. I would have some concerns there, but not giant ones. Okay. Thank you very much. I think it's Alan and then John, you can ask questions.
 Okay, so I have a question for Jeremy about I think it was about eight months ago We as a council approved an ordinance that changed it to where? Residential properties could have small-scale Businesses run out of them didn't we? Basically, so would it be unfair to not allow it in this case and allow it in all other cases? I mean if basically any residential leaves own property in the city of Fayetteville can have a small-scale business run out of it and
 How could we prevent it here? Those are still conditional use permits. So it goes through the same process as this went through, a conditional use permit, unless it's zoned for small-scale retail commercial uses. So it would still go through this similar process. So we're treating this property the same as we would any property. We're not picking on it one way or the other. Well, I'm just making sure that we're looking at things evenly. That's a good point. We have a difference of opinion between neighbors.
 And if we as a city are going to lease two acres to Appleseed, maybe we could make, well, not maybe, we certainly can, if it's our will, make it a condition to that lease that they erect some sort of petition between them and the neighbor to improve the chances that there won't be bad feelings or difficulty or closings that get canceled. I think we have the opportunity to accommodate both interests here.
 so i'd like for us to consider that proposal that we add a lease stipulation that says you put in some sort of can't be bamboo but it could be something else well i think the city council has actually already approved the lease and authorized mayor jordan to sign it and uh we haven't actually entered into it but it was at least that was negotiated i believe i wasn't the one that i'll be cunning or or someone else did
 But once you have an agreement, as you're aware, you don't, one side of the agreement can't just change it because they want to. However, if you wanted to have that kind of power, to exercise that kind of power, you potentially could do it as a condition to this conditional use, keeping in mind that
 You could be requiring a very large expenditure of funds by Appleseeds in order to build a fence around or to separate their two-acre farm parcel from this other land. I think you've seen stuff within your packet, the size of where that land would lie. And so that could be a very expensive fence if you all were wanting to do that.
 Maybe we can just think about it and come up with a solution that wouldn't be cost prohibitive. And have we already executed that lease? I don't think we have. I hope not. I signed something along the lines of selling the property, but I'm not sure. I don't think I signed the lease. So then it wouldn't be too late to change the terms of the lease if it's not been executed. We're still in the negotiation stage. Thank you.
 Well, the lease has been approved by the City Council. I guess you could, I guess, try to do a motion to reconsider if it hadn't been signed yet. One thing we keep, need to keep in mind is that there's a closing date that we have with Appleseeds that will be, occur prior to your next meeting and so it's, uh, would be extremely awkward if not impossible to start negotiating again with Appleseeds and come to a, you know,
 a new agreement before the closing date. So I would think that maybe Appleseeds could comment on that, their representative,
 But that's the whole reason we had to move this forward so quickly is so that it would be done prior to the scheduled closing time. Yeah, I think, John, what it is, everything's contingent on them getting the financing and then the lease kind of kicks in and everything else. But I think I've signed documents along the sale. I was just looking for something that would accommodate both interests, Mayor. I understand. I understand. But maybe it can't be done.
 With the property, the Phillips property that's for sale, if the house is burned out and someone is intending to build a new house, they can always keep in mind the existing or the site context when planning that house and the privacy needs that they would have as well as erect a fence. But I was looking at,
 looking for data on the impact of community gardens on adjacent properties. I found a study, Real Estate Economics, published in 2008, the effect of community gardens on neighborhood property values and
 They are citing a study by Trannell and Handlin that uses census data in St. Louis, Missouri to evaluate the effects of 54 community gardens. And they found that across the board, median rent, housing costs for owner-occupied housing, as well as home ownership rates, increased in the immediate vicinity of gardens relative to the surrounding census tracts following the garden opening. So there's...
 They're studying this, they're finding that it actually improves the property value, and they're also finding that the impact is greatest on those directly adjacent to the community gardens.
 So, while the current prospective buyer may not be interested in living next door to this type of a garden facility, I think the data shows that a lot of people are. And so, I don't think that we should let this one individual's concerns prevent us from opening this facility that is really needed and is greatly beneficial to our community.
 yeah yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 everybody is that standard procedure yes that's required by the ordinance is there a reason that the city doesn't do it um we used to it was a matter of cost we would charge the applicants essentially to do certified mail and so we we were brought this item back like I said I think it was 2005 for applicants to notify all property owners and place that accountability in their hands
 and the biggest reason i remember marty i was on the council at that time they would have a letter that they had to go down to the post office and sign so they were saying well i wasn't properly notified because i had to go down to the post office and i didn't have time to get the post office so we decided to go the other direction so i mean i'm not saying it's right or wrong or in between but that's why we did it yeah yes um
 I can't understand and appreciate the reasons for bringing an appeal forward with regards to the requirements we have for notification. I can appreciate the, in the, holding ourselves to a high standard whenever it comes to being diligent about making these decisions. All that said, my decision hasn't changed. It truly is a heartbreaking story that we've heard.
 and I have compassion for what's happened. But I believe we made the right decision and I'll stick by it and I think we should stick by it. I think that the public good at Appleseeds has really been demonstrated to the point that it can't be called into question effectively. And I think that there are a lot of reasons, prototyping, things like this is important for the city.
 You know, lots of times we don't realize just how broad the impact of food is on our city. You know, there are probably more jobs in the food industry than there are in any other sector. We have a Department of Water and Solid Waste and Department of Transportation, but we never stop to think about food as a municipal utility.
 That's really, I think, what we're starting to do here. And I think that's very important that we stick by our decision because it's going to have generational impacts on how we're able to address a lot of the pressures we should be anticipating in terms of our local food markets over the next half century or so.
 So all that's to say I appreciate the reasons this is we've been asked to vote on this again But I'm not going to change my vote and I move that we deny the appeal well, let me ask you this if you vote yes for the I
 appeal then it passes if a no would not I think it's better actually the requirement is that the majority must pass the resolution the burden is on the the appellants not on you okay the proper motion would be to move to pass the resolution and if that fails and the resolution has failed and the appeal has not been approved yeah
 And then it would just stay like it is? Yes. If we vote no. If you vote no. That's what I was trying to get in my head. That's correct. I was confused. Thank you, sir. And I have one comment. When you're ready. Sure. Any, yes, Mark. I also understand the situation that the homeowner has faced and the frustration that they must have felt whenever they did not have the opportunity to move forward with the closing. What we're faced also here.
 in front of us is the opportunity to manage a piece of property that the city was unable to sell. We were fortunate enough to have an offer on this property and to get it sold with some conditions that I think were commendable.
 Overall package that we were presented. I do believe offers the opportunity to enhance this area of our city I think it enhances the overall Impact of the awareness of garden to table with a lot of individuals and
 the bottom line what i know here is this is the opportunity for us to move property forward and we've agreed to do that that we otherwise were not able to move so from a responsible point of moving this property to an organization that is a commendable organization i think that i would have to say that we made the right decision initially and i'm sorry that we didn't uh
 have more input from the neighbor, but again, this is not a bad decision that we made initially, so I'm going to stand by it on the initial concerns and the initial values that were used to support the initial opportunity we had to sell the property.
 Well, I'll just say I thank the Council for listening to this. I think one of the things that excited me about this being a Ward 3 resident was the improvements that we're doing and will continue to do to Old Wire, which are going to make that area of town really walkable for the first time ever since I lived here, really.
 and access to the park and access to the park area was something that people always wanted. And I think that this will be something that the public and school children will enjoy and
 But I still think we did the right thing here to listen to Mr. Phillips and I think that had this happened two weeks ago, the decision would have ended probably the same as it's going to end in my opinion. So even though I brought this forward, it was again the intent was so that he could speak his mind and talk to us about it and maybe start a conversation with the folks at Appleseeds and I hope that they will
 to Alderman Latour's point, maybe work together, maybe have an intention here later of helping, if it's even needed. It may not be needed. Alderman Marsh's points were very valid as well, that in many cases, this might improve the property or enhance the property's sellability or who knows what might want that property, who might want that property. So I'll agree with everyone that spoke so far, I think, and I'll agree with you.
 in continuing to to stick with our original plan here, but I do thank the applicant for coming forward and I wish
 that in the future we could address how we notify the public because I don't like this really, I mean FedEx, UPS, I don't know, there's ways of delivering to people's homes and getting signatures without leaving a note and having to go down to the post office. It's 2015 and I think we can do better even through emails and things like that. So anyway, that's for another time. But for now I appreciate everyone listening to this.
 I will say that the motion made by Alderman Petty to deny the appeal and seconded by Alderman Marsh is appropriate, but if your motion failed, that would not grant the appeal. Then there would have to be a motion to pass the resolution. It's a proper motion to deny the appeal if that's what you want to do. Okay. We've got a motion and a second. I'd like to second.
 Don't we have to go ahead and decide one way or the other on that? Well, there's some— I mean, they can withdraw it, but if they don't withdraw— Or they can go forward if they want to have a motion to deny them until they can do that. Yeah. Is that your parliamentary advice, that we would draw the motion? No, go ahead. If it was a close vote, I don't anticipate it being a close vote. It's a close vote, I would certainly say somebody needs to move—somebody in support of the resolution needs to move in favor of it, but that might not happen. So vote yes is a vote to deny.
 vote yes now is a vote to deny. To deny the appeal. Right. Deny the appeal. Yes, John. Good. I've got to get that straight in my head, too. Okay. Everybody got that? All right. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Was that a yes? Yes, it was. Luture. No. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. The appeal has been denied, then. Okay. Now.
 What announcements do we have? Mayor, a couple of announcements for the public. The ribbon-cutting groundbreaking for the spiral sculpture, which was originally scheduled for Monday, was rescheduled due to weather for the 19th.
 at 1 p.m. It's a location on Frisco Trail. If you can enter it from Prospect and walk to Maple or from Maple and walk towards Prospect, that's the location. It's one o'clock on the 19th. And then I wanna remind citizens that City Hall will be closed.
 next Thursday and Friday for the Thanksgiving holiday. That's right. I have one announcement, too. I'm happy to report that we now only have a single condemnation case pending on Rupert Road. The other condemnation case, which involved about three and a half acres of right-of-way that we needed, plus temporary construction easement,
 We were able to resolve that for under $35,000, which I thought was very fair. And so we now have a single condemnation pending. We've had, we're still waiting for an appraisal from the owners of that property for them to make their demand. And we have yet to hear from that. And I'll keep you advised how that progresses. Okay. Anything else? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.