I'm going to call to order the November 15th City Council meeting. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Higgins. Peer. Luton. Hare. Marsh. Here. Mayer. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 All right, the first order of business we have tonight is under the, we have a City Council presentation of the 2015 annual audit report presented by Paul Becker. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is the presentation, and to inform you that the 2015 audit has in fact been completed. We received an unqualified or clean opinion on the report.
 No scope limitations. There were no unresolved issues with the auditor. No significant issues in the management report. And no inconsistencies or material deficiencies. That has already been reported to you by the audit committee. However, the report is here. It is posted on the website and I'll just hit a couple of highlights.
 Assets exceed liabilities for the city by $561 million. Now before we get too excited, I want to point out that $492 million of that are fixed assets. So that is not available cash or something that can turn into cash readily.
 However, we do have $39.5 million in unrestricted position. That's everything together. One thing I do want to point out to you in the financial statements is this year, the
 Gatsby 68 and 69 took effect which in essence means that the full pension liability of Loppy had to be disclosed and included on our statements that increased our total liabilities by 20 million dollars so those 39 million dollars in in Unrestricted fund assets are all over in the business type entities
 That's water and sewer, trash and recycling, airport and shop.
 Remember, shop has a fund balance for future purposes of equipment. We know we have quite a few capital expenditures to be required in water and sewer. So it's good that we have that amount of unrestricted assets. If we look at the governmental funds, which the general fund would be one, that's a negative $10 million difference.
 in unrestricted assets. Now that's not unusual for governmental statements across the United States. This was a great change, but for us this really had minimal impact. So the total pension liabilities, when we include the old pension funds administered here, plus what's at Lochte, that liability is in the $40 million range, however it's long term.
 That's where we stand on assets and liabilities. Now as far as the net position, net position for the year and that's performance for the year, was positive $24.9 million in 2015.
 Of this, $21 million is an increase in fixed assets. So the surplus, as we'll name it, was roughly $3.9 million. Most of it was in the form of fixed assets, either capital grants, donations from developers, things of that nature.
 And the governmental funds, the fund balance was $81.8 million. That's down $7 million, but that's $7 million spent from the bond project funds, the old funds we have to improve roads and things of that nature. So that's to be expected. Very, very good news is that city debt was reduced by $9.3 million in 2015.
 So Citi debt ended up there at about $105 million. We'll reduce it again this year, and I expect the debt to be about $92 million at the end of this fiscal year. So just to summarize a bit, I'd say it was a very, very good year. One, our assets are growing. Two, revenues were over expenditures.
 Three were paying down debt. So I'm very happy to make this report to the council. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Anything? Everybody good? All right. Thank you, Paul. The next order of business is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the November 1, 2016, City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution authorized the purchase of a John Deere 310L backhoe from John Deere Company of Moline, Illinois, in the amount of $90,316.56, pursuant to a National Joint Powers Alliance cooperative purchasing agreement for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a 50-50 cost share agreement with UA Properties LLC for construction of a water main along a portion of Smith Avenue between West Markham Road and North Thomas Avenue at a total cost of $13,912.68.
 Number four, resolution authorize acceptance of a 2016 Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality grant through the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District in the amount of $10,000 to continue the e-waste coupon redemption program to approve budget adjustment. Number five.
 A resolution authorizes the destruction of certain records shown on the attached affidavits pursuant to relevant code sections of the Arkansas Code annotated related to the maintenance and destruction of accounting and other city records. Number six, a resolution to approve...
 Change order number two, the contract with JBZ Incorporated DBA Ellington contracting in the amount of $17,455 for site and drainage improvements related to the Federal Senior Center Kitchen Expansion Project and to approve a budget adjustment recognizing community development block grant funds for the project in the amount of $95,000. Thank you.
 And number seven, a resolution to authorize the acceptance of a 50% matching grant award from the 2016 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program in the amount of $13,237.
 for the replacement of body armor vests for the federal police officers and to approve a budget adjustment. I'll entertain a motion. Sarah? I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Adela? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Under unfinished business number one,
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5550 for approximately 70 acres located east and west of Rupert Road and south of Mount Comfort Road from RSF 1 residential single family one unit per acre, RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre, and RA residential agricultural to CS community services and RA residential agricultural kit.
 be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and a legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf1 residential single family one unit per acre rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and r.a residential agricultural to cs community services and r.a residential agricultural
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are actually hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. I should note, Mayor, that I got an email from Alderman Long, who had to be out of state in a family emergency and asked that this not be actually acted on tonight, but be tabled. And I think that Chief of Staff Moore has some information about the other aldermen that are not here. Okay, Don? Okay.
 The other requests, Mother Alderman, do not relate to this particular item, but I got the same request as the city attorney from Alderman Ma. Okay. All right. Does staff have anything to add? No, sir, we do not. I do want to advise, if I can, Mayor, of the fact that to pass any ordinance or resolution requires five affirmative votes.
 In other words, tonight it would actually require a unanimous vote from the four council members and a vote from the mayor to pass any resolution or ordinance. Now we passed the consent agenda, but I just want you to know that. And the other thing is that we cannot suspend the rules and go to a second reading or third reading on an ordinance because that requires six votes, and we only have five people here.
 I just, you might not want your issue voted on necessarily tonight with such a small number of people here. I just wanted the applicants to realize that. Okay. Would the applicants like to address this on this? No? Okay. What's the council's...
 i'm sorry sarah i would recommend that we uh follow alderman long's request and hold this until the next meeting okay does everybody agreeable to that yes sir okay now if there's anybody from the public that would like to address this here they won't be back in two weeks this would be the time to do that but we're going to hold it two weeks and come back to it so you'll have plenty of time to address this okay
 Anybody all right and mayor we need actually official motion to table okay because we're on the third and final reading Sarah I mean that we table this for two weeks. Okay, we have a second Okay All right, we have a motion in second to table this for two weeks correct Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mayor Jordan. Mayor Jordan. Yes. So the motion table passed. All right. Number two, an ordinance to approve vacation 16-55, setting one submitted by Jordanson Associates, incorporated to vacate a portion of Jupiter Drive from McGuire Street to AEP substation.
 Mr. Mayor, last month I sent to the City Council a revised, proposed revised ordinance, and rather than reading the old one, I would like you to amend to the revision that I sent you that is also on the table in front of you tonight before I read the third and final reading. Okay. Okay.
 Has everybody had a chance to read the amendment? And as you know from when I sent it to you, basically it just explains the four conditions of approval in a little bit more detail to try to make them a little bit more clear. They're really the same four conditions, but they're just more clearly and strictly stated for this potential road vacation.
 adela i move that we amend this to include these uh points that our attorney has asked us to okay do we have a second no second you're trying to say justin is second i second yes we'll do it the old-fashioned way yeah let's do it sometimes it's more comfortable i still have that skill set yes we have a motion a second to amend
 Is there any public comment on the amendment? Yes, Aubrey. Well, I don't know if you haven't read the amendment, but I'll say this before you vote on this, and then I won't talk about it when you vote on passing or failing or whatever. Jupiter Road, is that what we're talking about? Mm-hmm.
 Okay, I'll break you might want to wait until we actually are talking about whether or not to pass the ordinance as opposed to just a Minute to change the conditions and make them more clear. Okay. Well, is that all right? This is just on the amendment the other people in the audience want to hear the amendment. Well, I'm gonna read it. Yeah Well, if you want to read it, well, they haven't voted have to have a vote first. I'm sorry. Sure. I
 So under item 4, it says that all the owners of the vacated property right away shall contractually agree in writing that upon or before 50% or more of the property they now own north of Van Asch, etc., etc. What happens if the property is sold before it is developed? Right.
 Well, that's why the contract is for people of property they now own, because once they have signed that contract, then their sale will be conditioned upon this requirement. That will be a requirement of the contract that I draft, but I can only make it with the people that actually now own the property. I don't know who might own it in the future. And so part of the agreement will be that if they sell, that they have to sell contingent upon this agreement.
 And what if they sell to multiple property owners and then who does it fall upon to fulfill the terms of this agreement? If they break it into say eight members? The property owner that signed the contract will have that duty on them. And so they will need to be very careful as they sell the property to make sure that they don't end up selling the property, having nothing left, and all of a sudden they have to pay for the money, pay for the road.
 That's why I structured it this way. I don't know who's going to own it in the future, but it's the current property owners are the ones that must sign it, not the developer, proposed developer, or anybody else, but the actual property owners.
 okay i would anticipate that the agreement would have a deed restriction on it that would uh that would be required to be placed upon their deeds to obey this particular part of the agreement okay so if this um current owner were to go bankrupt after selling off these parcels um and then i guess
 Do we have the mechanism to enforce them to build the road, or do we prohibit future development of those parcels? No, I think with the deed restriction, it would go with the land too, so that they would have to put a restriction upon their deed to fulfill this agreement. That would be, I think, the way I will try to structure it. And as you see, this has to be an agreement that will be to the city's,
 satisfaction so that we can try to be assured as best as possible that in fact this will happen I should also point out that even if we didn't have any agreement like this when the property develops
 There's going to be additional roads. This is a major piece of property, and there are going to be additional roads that will have to be and would be required to be placed and built in there by the developers anyway. And I invite Jeremy to comment on that because he's been in this development business a long time. But even without this agreement, there are going to be an additional road built here. This is just kind of an extra protection.
 and i don't know jeremy if you want to comment what happens in development when you have a large parcel like this i would agree with mr williams this is a safeguard essentially for before the existing road is closed
 We'll have an understanding through this contract that there will be future construction. As you all know, the Planning Commission reviews large-scale developments in Pomeroy Plats all the time. It requires connectivity and streets to access those local lots, smaller lots, and so that would be the same process we would go through here. Thank you. Any other questions from the council? Okay. Do you want to? There needs to be a vote, and then I'll read the amended version. Okay. Okay.
 Any other comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Janet? Yes. Shelton Mark? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Mayer? Jordan? Yes.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described street is not required for corporate purposes, and whereas Van Asch Drive has recently been built to four-lane boulevard standards to replace Jupiter Drive and to connect McGuire Street and Ball Street,
 and whereas all property owners along Jupiter Drive have requested that Jupiter Drive be vacated from McGuire Street to the AEP substation. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates Jupiter Drive from McGuire Street to the AEP substation, as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo subject to the conditions in Section 3.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions of approval, which all must be completed by the applicant to the satisfaction of the City prior to this vacation becoming final and prior to any damage or removal of the portion of Jupiter Drive to be vacated. Section 4, Section 5, Section 6, Section 7, Section 8, Section 9, Section 10, Section 11, Section 12, Section 13, Section 14, Section 14, Section 15, Section 16, Section 17, Section 18, Section 19, Section 20, Section 21, Section 22, Section 23, Section 23, Section 24, Section 24, Section 24, Section 24, Section 25, Section 26, Section 27, Section 28, Section 29, Section 29, Section 29, Section 30, Section 31, Section 31, Section 31, Section 31, Section 32, Section
 Any relocation or damage to utilities that could be caused by the removal or relocation of Jupiter Drive shall be at the owner-developer applicant's expense. Any relocation of utilities shall be placed into a new easement satisfactory to the City. Owner-developer applicants shall dedicate to the City any such new easement at the owner-developer applicant's expense. Number two, the existing water main within or near Jupiter Drive
 Jupiter drives right away must be maintained in good operational order until the owner developer applicant has at its expense properly constructed a replacement water main acceptable to the city with a properly dedicated easement and received formal acceptance of such fully functional and operational water main by the city.
 The owner-developer applicant may not grade, excavate, or do other activities near the existing water main that could damage the water main until the City has accepted the replacement water main. 3. The Cox fiber line within or near Jupiter Drive's right-of-way shall be relocated at the owner-developer's expense and to Cox's satisfaction prior to any work being done on or near Jupiter Drive that could damage this fiber line. 4.
 All owners of the vacated right-of-way property shall contractually agree in writing that upon or before 50% or more of the property they now own north of Van Ness Drive that is within the city limits of Fayetteville is approved by final plat or large-scale development. They will construct at their expense and dedicate to the city a public street connection between Ball Street and McGuire Street north of Van Ness Drive.
 Such contract, acceptable by the city, must be signed by all owners or authorized representatives of the owners of all land adjoining the current Jupiter Drive section to be vacated before this vacation can be final. Okay. Jeremy, you want to add anything to that or anything? All right. Any questions from the council on this or comments or anything? I think these were the terms of what you put together, right? They've agreed to all of those.
 Yes, I believe they have, although I think they have a representative here. Okay. So why don't you come up and address the city council. Good evening. Yeah, the applicant, Blake Jorgensen, my student clerk here.
 We agree with the new language adopted and we understand there's an absence of votes here tonight for further action on some items, but for this particular item, yes, these are the terms that we'd like and the city agrees to and we're happy to meet where we're at. So if you have any questions, we'll try to answer them. Do we have any questions for the applicant? Okay. Thanks. All right. What public comment do we have on this?
 Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. We're on the third and final reading. Jeremy, I believe Planning Department did recommend in favor of this. And go ahead. Yes, and the Planning Commission did as well. We feel comfortable with the conditions as more clarified by Mr. Williams and appreciate that. I feel a little more comfortable that they've agreed to get recommendations to hide some issues with this as well. All right.
 Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? David? Yes. John Marr? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Fair? Jordan? Yes. All right. Number three, a resolution to grant the appeal to Tim Rizal of Legacy Ventures and to approve a large-scale development, 16-5488 Macy Drive Town Homes. I understand that Council Member...
 long wants to hold this one as well actually I spoke to the applicant today they've requested it be tabled they're working on some potential solutions to reduce the density for the project and they've been speaking with alderman longs and neighbors as well so Mr brazil who's here representing the applicant development team last or two weeks ago has requested this item be table for two weeks
 Mayor, Alderman Long asked me to read that regarding Macy Drive Townhouse. Would you please ask this to be held on the current reading for two weeks? I've had meetings with the builder and constituents together. There's been some progress made. I'd like to be there for the vote and discussion. Okay. All right. Justin? I would like to make a motion to table. Adela? I second that motion. We have a motion and second to table for two weeks.
 Okay, all right Sandra would you please call the roll? Yes Yes, yes Yes Okay, number four an order to rezone that property scribe resume petition RZN 16-5589 for approximately 0.37 acres located
 located at 714 West Martin Luther King Boulevard and 511 Hill Avenue from RMF 40 Residential Multifamily 40 Units Per Acre to C1 Neighborhood Commercial.
 This is on the second reading. Yes. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 40 Residential Multifamily 40 Units per Acre to C1 Neighborhood Commercial.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. And I read this because we cannot suspend the rule, so we can't go to the third and final reading, but we can certainly discuss this if you want to. Okay. Jeremy, you got anything you want to add to it? No further comments, no, sir. Okay. All right. What discussion do we have from the Council? Any questions or questions?
 All right. And is there any public comment? We'll take some public comment, but we're going to hold this for two weeks. Okay. All right. On we go. Number five, in order to rezone that property, describe the zoning petition RZN 16-55-90 for approximately 23 acres located northeast of McGuire Street and Van Ash Drive from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to C3 Central Commercial to C3 Central Commercial.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from C2, third-fair commercial, and C3, central commercial, to C3, central commercial. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Same situation as before, Mayor. We can't suspend the rules and go to the final reading. Jeremy, you got anything you want to add to it? The applicant want to add anything? Okay. Any discussion from the council? All right. We'll see everybody in two weeks on that one. All right. Moving right along to new business, such as that is this evening. A resolution to award bid number 16-59 to authorize the purchase of three freight liner dump trucks from
 Truck Centers of Arkansas on the total amount of $404,865 for use by the Transportation Services Department. Council Member Latour asked that this be pulled from the consent agenda, but he is absent tonight. So here it's on new business, so we've got someone here to explain it, I guess. Good evening, Mayor and Council. We're here to look over these three trucks, the replacement vehicles. We took bids. We're taking the lowest bid.
 They're at the end of their life for us, and we need some new trucks. Okay. Do we have any questions for Joey on this? Is there any public comment on this? Okay. Seeing none, I will bring it back to the council. Don? Mayor, I just want to remind the council this went to the equipment committee and was passed. Okay. Sarah? I move we approve the resolution.
 uh della all right we have a motion and second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council saundra would you please call her up yes yes yes mayor jordan yes number two
 A resolution to award bid number 16-62 to authorize the purchase of a mobile fire training simulator from American Fire Training Services Incorporated of Lockhorn, Illinois, in the amount of $609,000 plus applicable sales taxes used by the fire department. And Council Member Latour asked that this one be pulled, but in his absence, Chief, do you want to give your presentation to the council that's here?
 I'll try to keep it under 45 minutes if I can. All right. Give a presentation. Thank you, Mayor. The fire department was awarded a FEMA grant for a fire training simulator in May of this year. In June, the City Council authorized acceptance of the grant for up to $613,000 and paying the 10% match of $61,000 and a project contingency of $27,000.
 The research was done, the specifications were written, and the bidding process completed. And tonight we're requesting that the council approve the purchase of the mobile fire training simulator that won the bid at a cost of $609,000 plus associated sales tax for a total of $668,377.50.
 The federal funds will contribute $601,539 of that amount, and the city match is $66,838.50 that will come out of impact fees that we have. And that's a total of $668,000, well, $668,377.50. This mobile fire training unit will allow the fire department to train in all the
 complicated aspects of the fire ground. We can do ventilation, confined space, forceful entry, stand pipes. It's six stories tall, so we can do rope rescues off of it. It has three different burn rooms. It's got a...
 LPG fire simulator so we can train in a safe condition. It's much safer than like we used to do, burn down houses and have real fire situations, which firefighters get killed in every year. So this is one of the best things that's happened to the fire department. In the last several years, the city has provided many improvements to the fire service, even adding an additional fire company this year.
 However, the purchase of this training tower will have the greatest, most far-reaching impact that the Mayor and City Council have done for the fire department in the history of the city of Fayetteville. As a result, Fayetteville firefighters will be better trained and safer than ever before and will be for generations to come. So thank you. Can I answer any questions? Oh, but thank you, Chief. Thank you.
 I'd like to thank you for obtaining that grant so that we could have this almost totally at FEMA's cost with very little bit put in by us.
 As you said, a very good improvement. So thanks for your work on that. Absolutely. Thanks. Okay. Don, you have? I was just going to add that we have lobbied for this type of funding from the federal government quarterly for the last year and a half in an effort so that our citizens did not have to pay the bulk of this.
 It's also the reason why we come to you before we request going for these types of grants. So once we get your approval to apply for it, we're in hopes of your approval when we land them. Okay. Justin? Yes.
 I think one of the reasons it gets overlooked of why Fayetteville is such a recognized nationally and globally wonderful place to live is because of our fire department and because of the job they do. And I think that something like this only improves the safety of not only our firefighters but our citizens at large. So this particular dollar amount, especially since we don't have to come up with it, is even better. But I can tell you that that's a bargain in the lives that this is going to save. So thank you, Chief, and everybody at the fire department.
 thank you all right okay what public comment do we have on this well i agree that it's a wonderful smart thing to do in 1958 i went to coast guard boot camp on the west coast and one of the first things we had to do when we went to the firefighting school before we could ever be on a boat or ship a coast guard go in that room with all that smoke and stuff and take off our masks
 i don't remember what the count was before you could get out of there that was the first thing and that still might be a useful thing but this kind of training program is much safer thank you thank you albert anybody else like to address us on this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council sarah i mean if we pass the resolution hey della i second the motion we have a motion in a second to pass the resolution don't know some past
 yes yes yes yes thank you all very much number three in order to resolve that property describing rezoning petition rzn 16-5609 for approximately 26.83 acres located at 1764 north star road from rsf1 residential single family one unit per acre to rsf4 residential single family four units per acre kip
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF 1, Residential Single Family, 1 unit per acre, to RSF 4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the city of fail ark saw hereby amends the official zoning map for the city of favor To reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Okay, Jim, it's a piece of property located on the east side of fable It's south of Mission Boulevard highway 45 east of Star Drive. It's adjacent to the st. Joseph's Catholic school and church The properties near the city limits you can tell on the map is
 On the screen just a second, the city limits do not extend very far south of Mission Boulevard in this particular location. It's about 21 acres, currently owned and maintained with a couple of single-family homes, some mature trees and a large pond on the property. It's not in the floodplain. If you look at some of the maps in the map,
 the review packet, it's not in the floodplain, although there is a small tributary that goes from pond to pond in this area, draining those ponds, eventually heading north into Mud Creek drainage area.
 The city plan 2030 designates this site as a residential neighborhood area. It's surrounded on three sides by residential neighborhoods already developed, as well as a small conservation easement natural area to the east, called Madison, I think, conservation area or natural area. The request is to rezone it from RSF 1, which is what it was zoned when it was annexed, to RSF 4, residential single-family, four units per acre.
 So while this would quadruple the density that's allowed on the property now, staff feels it is consistent with the future land use plan in this area, particularly when you look at and review infrastructure in this area, which we don't believe could support higher density development at this time.
 There is very little discussed in the actual meeting. There is one member of the Planning Commission who voted against the item, Commissioner Quinlan. Her dissent essentially discussed that there was a mention that RSF4 may not be dense enough, but in staff's perspective we feel like we have to balance that with obviously compatibility of surrounding properties and land uses and as I mentioned before the infrastructure available to support future development in the area.
 So staff and the Planning Commission, do you recommend approval of this rezoning to RSF4? Okay, what questions do we have? Oh, is the applicant here? Yes, would you like to approach us, please? I'm Brett Watts with Bates & Associates. The client wants to rezone this property to RSF4. In talking with him, he would like to keep the ponds as is.
 and the existing trees, trying to not take those out and put this in as cluster housing, maximize the green space and minimize infrastructure. Okay, what questions do we have for the applicant or the staff? Anybody? Okay, thank you. Do we have any public comment on this? Well, speaking as a green nut, I think this is a pretty good sounding change.
 with the things he mentioned. So, thank you. Thank you, Aubrey. Anyone else? Okay. Bring it back to the council. I suppose we'll be leaving this right here. There's nothing we can do. Since we can't suspend the rules, we can't take any further action on this unless you all have any comments. Yeah. Do we have any comments? Okay. All right, moving along to number four.
 the order to rezone that property described resounding petition rzn 16-5633 for approximately
 Point 80 acres located 2350 West Weddington Drive from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to NS Neighborhood Services Kitt. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change as a zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and a legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo.
 from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre to NS neighborhood services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 okay Jeremy this is a property located along Weddington Drive it's one lot east of Porter Road here located here on your map it's constructed there's a structure on the property constructed in 1955 before many of the homes in this area were constructed it was constructed as a commercial structure at that time and then subsequently the next year was annexed into the city
 There's about 1,800 square feet on the first floor, and then there's also a second floor apartment on the structure as well. It's currently zoned RSF-4, as are all the properties within this area. You can tell here almost fully RSF-4 until you get over to...
 a little further to the west or to the north the building has been consistently utilized for commercial purposes however it recently had a period of vacancy and our ordinances require that when there is a non-conforming use of a property and that that non-conforming use ceases for a certain period of time then it cannot another non-conforming use or that same use cannot begin again without some sort of action by other planning commission or City Council
 Rather than go through numerous conditional use permit processes, we recommend to the applicant apply for rezoning. We luckily have tools in our toolbox now for small impact, small scale commercial development.
 that it can be compatible with the neighborhood and neighborhood services one of those zoning districts so this applicant is requesting that the lot be rezoned to neighborhood services from the rsf4 zoning district as i mentioned it's long been utilized and grown up in this neighborhood as a non-residential structure so we feel like that the use of the structure that the applicant intends will be compatible with the neighborhood as you all know with the rezoning we also look to the future so what if that structure goes away and there's a new development there
 This particular zoning district limits structure non-residential uses from 1,500 to 3,000 square feet max. So we have a 2,800 square foot structure now. It's relatively at the maximum impact in terms of uses that could occur on the property now as it would in the future. So we feel very comfortable recommending approval. Even though sometimes you don't see commercial zones smack dab in the middle of a block, we feel comfortable with this one, particularly also because it's along Weddington Drive, which is a five-lane block.
 Road in this area, so we're supportive of the request the Planning Commission unanimously supported it as well as the applicant here. Yes, please Bought the building as a commercial building and then found out it was residential zone In hopes of moving my locksmith shop there is a permanent home for it I answer any questions you have or like that do we have any questions for that kind of staff? Okay? Thank you Do we have any public comment on this? I?
 Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. I assume we will be leaving it right here. Yeah, hopefully next meeting we will have enough so we probably could go to the third and final reading because I know you're trying to move your business, but at this point we can't do anything further. Okay. All right, number five. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5598 for a process of 3.74 acres located at 1777 South Smokehouse Trail.
 from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Kip? Kip Thorne, R-A Residential Agricultural, UT Urban Thoroughfare, Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description in Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jeremy? Thank you.
 three and three quarters acres south of Martin Luther King Jr Boulevard and west of Smokehouse Trail at the southwest corner. It's currently zoned RA as you can tell by the zoning maps. There's a number of different zoning districts within the area. Residential office to the west, community services, urban thoroughfare to the north, C1, RSF4, RA, so a number of different zoning districts within this area.
 is close to the edge of the city limits as you're heading west into farmington as most of you realize this is also the location of the ozark mountain smokehouse so that was constructed many years ago with the extension of ruple road adjacent to the north of this site a signalized intersection will be created at the first of this year this new street infrastructure makes the property we feel an ideal location for more intensive and dense land use under the urban thoroughfare zoning which is what is requested here today
 In the near term, it will also allow the applicant to utilize the existing property and existing structure for the various commercial uses, nonprofit, office-type uses that currently have been permitted under conditional use permit. Rather than continue having to bring those forward every time something changes out, again, we feel like this is the most proper zoning district for this particular property. So we are recommending approval as to the Planning Commission with a vote of 6-0. Okay. Say African here. Frank. Okay.
 I'm Frank Sharp, 2062 South Smokehouse Trail. We built that building in 1976. It wasn't Martin Luther King. It was Highway 62 West. Smokehouse Trail was a gravel street. Then the city kept moving out. If you've been out there the last few weeks, you can see it ain't rural anymore. I'll be happy to answer any questions you have. Do we have any questions for the applicant or staff on this?
 No, but I'd like to acknowledge that not only did Frank be one of the leading proponents of the Walton Arts Center on Dixon Street for its first incarnation before this latest renovation, but also he led many hikes from this very spot up over Kessler Mountain and was the first and primary champion of our new regional park at Mount Kessler. So we owe you a debt of gratitude for what you've done to our city.
 I remember that hike right before your knee operation. I think that's what caused it.
 okay just well i just this is a great thing i uh grew up uh went to school with with tom sharp and uh spent a lot of time uh most of it you probably knew about some of it you might not have been back in the building and in the surrounding area um my question though to city staff is so if we do this and then in the future um the land is is marketed for sale can
 Can it be financial? Can it be – I mean, what can't go in there, I guess? So Urban Thoroughfare is one of our more comprehensive districts. It's a full mixed-use zone, so there are a number of commercial uses that are permitted as well as residential uses. So anything from single-family all the way through the gamut of multifamily uses. Okay.
 Urban Thoroughfare has been utilized primarily along our primary major corridors. I believe the most recent one was two weeks ago. You rezoned the corner north in College as Urban Thoroughfare across from the UAMS campus there, Northwest Campus. So it does allow, it also allows for a higher height limit, and there's no density limitation. So it does allow for a number of uses, office, financial, restaurant, restaurant.
 commercial, retail, all those types of uses. And that's what I was hoping, just because this has now become an extremely important corner with what we've done there. So I just wanted to make sure that we were planning for the future and didn't get caught up on something later on with a good development type idea that couldn't fit in there. But it sounds like we're pretty...
 we're pretty much covered for anything i failed to mention if this map kind of shows a little bit of it but you'll recall last year we brought forward staff brought forward initiated a rezoning request along ripple road a little over 600 acres essentially doing the same thing planning for our future growth
 uh and not just residential housetops but also future commercial services that would serve this neighborhood in this West Side of Fayetteville so this would be a natural extension of the urban thoroughfare directly across the street and Community Services that extends along Ripple Road that we've constructed okay great thank you very much Jeremy all right any other questions any public comment on this well I think uh Mr Sharp knows how to
 put in good things so we're not worried about what he does there i think i heard it but i didn't get it straight when does the stoplight sometime in january in january somewhere around the first year chris isn't that correct we're hoping yep okay well that's what a lot of people are concerned about yes i understand that i'm hearing from a lot of people any other public comment
 Okay, bring it back to the council, hold it right here. Yes. Mayor, I just might add for Aubrey Shepherd and the people who are actually watching tonight that the city requested this stoplight some time ago. Yes, we did. Prior to, so it could potentially be in place prior to the road opening, but that didn't happen. No, it did not. I want to thank our commissioner who actually allowed us to get that, at least on the timeframe that we're on today. Yes, absolutely. Thank you.
 Okay, all right. Let's move on to number six. An ordinance to amend 31.18 District Judge Compensation because the District Judge of Washington County District Department will, on January 1, 2017, become a full-time state employee. Kit? Whereas ACA 16-17-1112 mandates that on January 1, 2017...
 Fayetteville and other cities in the second district, which is primarily Washington County, will have their current local district courts reorganized as state district courts. And whereas ACA 16-17-1106A mandates that, quote, the state shall pay the salary and benefits of the state district judges created under this subchapter, unquote,
 And whereas Chief District Court Clerk Dena Stalkalper has notified the City Administration of this upcoming change, including the renaming of the District Court in her memo of October 19, 2016. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals in its entirety Section 31.18, District Judge Compensation,
 and an act of replacement, Section 31.18, as shown below. Section 31.18, Washington County District Court, Fayetteville Department. Pursuant to state law, the former Fayetteville District Court will be renamed the Washington County District Court, Fayetteville Department, effective January 1, 2017.
 The Washington County State District Judges will become full-time state employees on January 1, 2017. The state will pay all the Washington County State District salaries and benefits on or after January 1, 2017. Mr. Mayor, I brought this forward just to recognize the state law change. We used to set the compensation in this particular section of the code, and of course we don't do that now. The state is.
 And even though the state is paying all of the money, in fact, half of all the district judges' salary will still be paid by the citizens of Washington County in various degrees. I think Paul might already be gone, but I think that we have agreed with the other cities and county that will be on a pro rata basis so that all the citizens will pay the same amount to Washington.
 pay their share of which is half of the district judge's salary but i brought this forward because our old code section simply was no longer relevant okay do we have any questions for kit on this okay saying none do we have any public comment on this okie dokie we'll hold it right here all right number seven an ordinance to amend 33.350 purpose and establishment and 33.351 composition of article
 23 active transportation advisory committee the federal city code to expand the scope of the committee's duties to recommend that the City Council appointees should also serve on the Transportation Committee and to establish a time for the election of the committee chair Yeah
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 33.350, Purpose and Establishment of Article 23, Active Transportation Advisory Committee, and enacts a new Section 33.350 as follows, quote, there is hereby established, as a continuance of the former Sidewalk and Trails Advisory Board, the Active Transportation Advisory Committee.
 This Committee shall make recommendations to the Transportation Committee on Active Transportation Projects and issues that may arise, including but not limited to a. Yearly trail, sidewalk, and paving overlay construction program plans. Review of overlay plans will be focused on incorporation of active transportation facilities. b.
 5-year Trail Construction Prioritization Plan C. Proposed trail, sidewalk, and bikeway-related improvement plans for major projects to be partially or fully funded by the City. Said review will be at the preliminary stage and will include typical cross-sections and preliminary horizontal and vertical alignments.
 Said projects will be at the discretion of the City Administration, but generally will include major sidewalk projects, trails, and the active transportation component of the projects where major changes to existing street cross sections are planned. D. Changes, additions, or deletions to the active transportation plan and the sidewalk master plan. Section 2.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 33.351 composition of Article 23 Active Transportation Advisory Committee by repealing the first sentence after the heading and subsection a and replacing them with the following the Active Transportation Advisory Committee shall be composed of eight voting members and seven non-voting staff support members as listed below the member shall elect a chair at his first annual meeting subsection a
 One voting member of the committee shall be a member of the City Council. It is recommended that this person also serve on the Transportation Committee. And, Mayor, this was brought forward by Alderman Marsh. All right, sir. So...
 Thank you. The Active Transportation Advisory Committee has noticed a trend in seeing – we felt like we were seeing a lot of the transportation plans too late for us to make meaningful improvements without generating –
 costly redesigns or change orders. So this is designed to get us information sooner so that we can optimize the design process and reduce the amount of back and forth as well as improve our active transportation network to the greatest extent possible.
 We also felt like there was a lack of continuity between the active transportation advisory committee and the transportation committee. And so we are recommending but not requiring that the same representative or at least one of the representatives on the transportation committee is also the representative on the active transportation committee just to have that continuity. But I didn't know if Matt did you have anything to add to that as our staff member on the
 I don't really have much to add, just like you said, the continuity and the current language was a little bit dated on the purview of what the committee was doing, and so we were kind of running into some issues there. Just helps clarify what they're doing really currently on the committee, just kind of helps clarify that. Don?
 Mayor, Councilmember Petty asked for me to ask the council to hold item C7, active transportation advisory committee. As the chair of the transportation committee, he would like to weigh in on the discussion. Well, we have no choice. It's an ordinance, so we cannot suspend the rules. So it's going to remain right here on the first reading. Yes, it is. Do we have any questions for Sarah on this?
 Any public comment on this? Okay, bring it back to the council. Hold it right here. All righty. Well, resolution. Number eight, a resolution to approve federal police department policies 1.2.1, limits of authority 1.2.2, warrantless detention, search and seizure 1.3.1, use of force 1.3.4.
 Less lethal weapons and defensive tactics, 1.3.6. Officer-involved shooting and 22.3, secondary employment. Chief? Thank you, Mayor. As you know, all of our policies have to be approved by the City Council. You have previously approved five of these six, so five of those...
 only have minor changes that mostly have to do with changes in CALEA standards or some court ruling that we had to change some little thing. The sixth one that you have not seen before is our officer-involved shooting policy. Basically what this does, it puts down on paper what our practice has been for several years so in the unfortunate case that we have an officer-involved shooting, both the officer and the public would know what to expect and how we're going to investigate that shooting. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for the Chief on this?
 Okay. What public comment do we have on this? All right. Now I'll bring it back to the council. Justin. I'll say the same thing, the same theme that I said for the fire department.
 One of the main reasons that this city is looked at as one of the top places to live in this country is not only because of our fire department, but also our police department. I think they're the best in this nation, and I'm very, very proud of what they do. And this is the sort of thing that I think even puts people at ease more and involves all the information to the citizens that they want and deserve. And it helps keep us safe, so I thank the police department for their actions here.
 Okay, Adela. Yes, I just wanted to say the same thing. I feel very fortunate to have an excellent police department as we have, and I'm happy to make any adjustments that clarify the policies. Thank you so much. Okay, Adela. Adela?
 I mean are we ready are we ready for a motion well you can make one for sure I'd sure like to make a motion that we pass this Sarah seconds we have a motion and second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council
 all right Sandra would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes well this meeting was certainly easy enough I can't believe it's so unanimous out there yeah next week should be a little part in two weeks from now it should be a little more challenging is it two or three
 Three weeks. Three weeks. Well, whatever. That's right. It's not a Tuesday. Yes, we do. You'll need three weeks of rest before we get into that. Don, what announcements do we have? Yes, Mayor, we have many announcements tonight. First, the...
 Next Thursday, November the 24th and Friday, November the 26th, city offices will be closed for the Thanksgiving holiday. So please do your business at City Hall, Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday next week prior to that closing. The city will be...
 Or we are currently still taking a survey input for our Fayetteville mobility plan that can be found on the City's website, www.fayetteville-ar.gov. Take the survey and give us the latest information you have regarding participation in the second phase of the Fayetteville mobility plan.
 We want to remind citizens that proper leaf disposal and impacts on our flooding and water quality, we encourage citizens not to put leaves in the storm drains or gutters. It results in a
 potential flooding and high water events. It also adds added nutrients and phosphorus and nitrogen that impact our water quality, providing clean drinking water and a higher cost to do that. So it ultimately saves them as ratepayers by properly disposing of them. We have a yard waste program where they can bag their leaves at the curb, and we have
 take them for you weekly. So please utilize that service and do not put them in the waterways or the storm drains. I also want to remind the council and citizens that the last fall bulky waste cleanup is this Saturday, November the 19th.
 From 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., the two locations are the Church of Christ Church on 310 West Center Street. This is the Ward 2 designated cleanup, as well as the recycling and trash facility at 1560 South Happy Hollow Road. What can be taken is on the website. What cannot be taken is in the same item, so please check that out.
 THE NEXT ITEM IS WE ARE GOING TO BE TESTING TOMORROW OUR NEW CODE RED EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION SYSTEM. IT WILL BE CONDUCTED WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER THE 16TH AT 10 A.M. THIS TEST IS DESIGNED TO TEST THE CAPACITY OF THE SYSTEM TO SEE THAT OUR INFRASTRUCTURE CAN HANDLE THE NUMBER OF CALLS TO CALL ALL CITIZEN LAND LINES SHOULD WE HAVE A CATASTROPHIC
 This is a change in our system. We used to use our notification system Everbridge for both emergency and non-emergency notifications. We have changed to Co-RED. It's the same system that the county uses for the non-incorporated areas or unincorporated areas. But it will only be used for emergency situations. And so it does not allow citizens to opt out. It is our 911 database.
 It would be used in situations of catastrophic weather, an actual tornado impact, not a warning, ice storm, contamination of drinking water, explosions, terrorism activities, governor-approved state emergencies. And so...
 To not be finding out that the system can't handle the call volume during an event, we are required to do a test on the front end. That will be tomorrow at 10 a.m. So just if you get calls about that, know if people want to know how we got their data, it's the 911 data and they will not be removed even if they request to be so because it's used for emergency situations.
 Saturday, I want to remind you that 8sharp is your budget meeting for 2017 budget.
 You also will then have a ribbon cutting at 9.50 at the Walton Arts Center in the grand reopening celebration that takes place on Saturday. Free parking will be at the West Avenue lot and the Spring Street parking deck for the Saturday grand reopening event. And the Walton Arts Center has planned numerous free events
 events for citizens throughout the entire day of Saturday and into the evening. You can get those on a link to the city's website or go to the Walton Arts Center site directly. There's lots and lots going on. It's free for families. There's tours. There's makeup
 designed for theater for children so lots of things to engage the family in the opening of the art center and we want to remind the council that we hope that you will be there not only for the budget meeting at 8 but able to walk down and attend the ribbon cutting at 9 50 and the festivities for the grand reopening begin at 9 50 and through the rest of the day
 And you can part for free all day Saturday through 2 p.m. Sunday. Okay? And Friday is our lighting of the Square for Lights of the Ozarks. So if you'll come out, it'll be nice and cold and feel Christmassy or wintry or holiday, whatever item you want to feel, will be on Friday evening. And we hope you'll join us for that as well.
 Okay, any other announcements? Okay. Thank you all. We're adjourned.