I would like to call to order the City Council meeting November the 20th 2018 Sorry, would you please call the roll here? Here here here here here here would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay, I believe the first order business we have tonight under Reports, I believe mark you have something for some from the nominating committee. Yes We need to add a nominating committee report so we can complete the slate on your second here I'm sorry. I'll second we have a motion in a second to Put the nominating committee report on the agenda, correct? All right
 Sondra, would you please call the roll? I'm sorry, Mark made the motion and Kyle seconded it. Kay? Yes. Yes. Bench? Material? Yes. Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes. Okay. All right, Mark? Yes.
 The nominating committee met and we discussed the town and gown committee and it was decided to move forward with the nomination of Marcia Scott for the town and gown committee that had the open vacancy currently. And I move we accept this nomination. Justin. I second that. All right. What discussion do we have?
 Sarah. I'm uncomfortable with Marsha Scott's appointment to this committee. She directly contracts with the university and I'm afraid that we are ceding too much power to the university. Both of our at-large representatives on the committee are employed by the university or direct contractors to the university so I will be voting no. Okay. All right. Any other discussion on it? John.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'd like for someone, Mark, maybe that would be you, just tell us why you think she should be on it. She should have an advocate here. Certainly. She does have a contractual agreement of some sort with the university, but she's not like a full-time university employee. She had a very good and well-informed interview with the committee.
 Her personal experience and her professional experience are those that are well respected and good leadership qualities. And I think that it's this type of leadership that we can use on the committee. And I don't think that it's an imbalance because she's not going to bring that into the committee. She has a contract with the Fulbright College doing something, and it's like leadership
 So the skill set that she brings is going to be valuable. She has an impressive work history as a professional consultant as well as in government. And she is a person that really has moved to Fayetteville and has embraced it as her home. And I think that that makes it valid that she's an at-large member looking out for
 for the out large position in the city of Fayetteville. So she had an impressive application and an impressive interview. Educational background? Does she have a master's in business administration or education administration, something like that? How long has she lived here? I don't know that. A while, eight years, 10 years. I don't think that we asked that, did we?
 You asserted that she moved here and she's embraced it. Embracing it 20 years ago or 10 years ago might be better than embracing it six months ago. Recently, for instance, she loaned her Arkansas art collection to the Art Gallery on the Square, formerly known as the Underground. It was very much a celebration of Arkansas and especially Fayetteville.
 So she was very generous to do that, and it was a pretty impressive collection of Arkansas folk artists. That was just...
 to show that I mean I don't know she's very dedicated to Arkansas into the city this is her home thank you yes mayor I'm an acquaintance of Marsha's not a dear friend not a longtime friend but I'm very impressed with her knowledge I personally think she's a perfect
 person for this town and gown because I think I think she has a perspective of both The town and the gowns she has a long long devotion to the city of Fayetteville and to the University of Arkansas But she's also a resident She's moved here and she plans to move her mother here and accessory unit so I think she's a
 Personally, I think she's the perfect candidate to work on the town of Gown, so I feel very supportive of her. Her leadership skills, as we know, she's involved in the Fulbright College and in leadership at the university, and I think that's important. Thank you. Thank you. Don? Yes.
 Mayor and Council, I'm one of the co-chairs of this committee with Laura Jacobs, who is the Chief of Staff for the Chancellor of the University. It doesn't matter to us who you appoint. I think that obviously is this debate, but I just wanted to say to you that it has been my experience as chair that Ms. Daniels, who is an employee of the University of Arkansas, has numerous times cited differently than the University of Arkansas in debates where we have seen...
 votes on various discussions, be along the lines of the city or the university. And so I truly believe that all of our
 members our prior ward representatives and our at-large representatives have tried to weigh listening to the two sides and have been so far very diligent and not necessarily affected by who they might be most closely associated with we have people who have served in those roles who've also been on committee appointments of the city and so the argument could
 be made in some cases that they might side with the city on an opinion simply because of their advisory nature And we haven't seen that either sometimes they are on the other side, so I just wanted to make that comment that I Truly believe that the at-large has been at-large or the ward representatives have truly been citizens looking at these issues that have been debated Okay All right Adele
 I think I'll take some public comments. I know there are some folks waiting on this. Made some public comments last time. Does anyone want to say anything? OK, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to accept the nomination of Marcia Scott for town of Gown, correct? That is correct. And any final comments? I seconded. I was the. Mark made the motion. I seconded. Oh, I thought I did. Sorry. Sorry.
 and then gets there anyway okay any final comments sir i would just like to note that three members in good standing reapplied to continue service on this committee um and that we are passing those over in favor of a new individual mark that is the case but it's also we have a restructure of this committee and so i think with the restructure of the committee and the way it's set up that this is valid and fair
 Anybody else? Everybody good? All right. Senator, please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Next order of business is consent. Number one, approval of the November 8th, 2018 City Council Meeting of Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve the...
 quote by air air crypts to llc dba elite building solutions any amount of eighty two thousand two hundred sixty dollars per second to resolution number 164-16 for replacement of the great field terminal boiler to authorize the facilities management division to construct improvements for
 for the project at the cost of $5,200 to approve the project contingency in the amount of $8,746 to authorize acceptance of an Arkansas Department of Aeronautics 5050 matching grant in the amount of $43,730 and to approve the budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $189,000 to appropriate additional funding for the purchase of jet fuel through the end of 2018.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,120,000 in the purchased water account due to increased water usage. Number five, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $64,924, recognizing revenue associated with federal and state law enforcement forfeitures and reimbursement payments from the United States Department of Homeland Security.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a renewal of the contract with Community Access Television Incorporated, DBA, your media in the amount of $165,779 for the provision of public access television services and the operation of public access television channel through 2019 contingent upon.
 on approval of the 2019 annual city budget and work program number seven a resolution to approve budget adjustment total amount of 941 dollars representing donation to rangers pantry and community development block grant program income received from the Walton family foundation for a travel and training reimbursement number eight
 a resolution to approve the contract with kutok rock and llp pursuant to rfq 18-14 for bond council services as needed through december 31st 2023 number nine a resolution to approve a contract was stevens incorporated pursuant to rfq 18-15 for bond underwriting and related services as needed through december 31st 2023 i will entertain a motion except consent agenda is read
 Justin John we have a motion in a second to accept the consent agenda as read Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Okay, thank you all very much your unfinished business number one
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6341 for approximately 0.24 acres located at 1248 South Washington Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU residential intermediate, Erdman. John. Thank you, Mayor. We have no new information on this request. However, it was shared with planning staff that a member of the council had requested and
 Hang on. Kit's got to read this or the council's got to make a motion so they can go to the second reading. Yes, go ahead and read it, Kit. I'll turn on the mic and just read it.
 Be it ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one that the City Council the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas Hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on a map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit B Both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from NC neighborhood conservation to RI dash you residential intermediate urban Section two that the City Council the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville Reflected zoning change provided in section one. Okay I
 Thank you Mr. Mayor. Again, staff has no update to offer. It was requested by a council member that staff provide some sort of bulk area diagrams for consideration with this.
 These you see before you, this was associated with the creation of the RAU zoning district. It basically shows a transect through the lower density residential single family four units breaker zoning that you see in large portions of Fayetteville through what was called RT12 at the time, but is now RI12 into RAU and then to our more dense downtown general zoning district.
 uh this is more specific to this piece of property uh staff did draw this up with the intention of what was the uh the most intense use that could be done with the property that typical hypothetical the two diagrams on the left hand side you can see is a bird's eye view the upper one shows a single family dwelling with one attached accessory dwelling unit one detached accessory dwelling unit which would allow three units on the property
 under the R.I.U. zoning district, the property could potentially be subdivided into three properties, each with its own
 dwelling and associated accessory dwelling units. If you consider the right side of the slide there, you'll see the staff put together. So I'm gonna give a 3D image of this. Under the NC zoning district, you can build up to three stories and this can be done right up to the front property line. Whereas the RU zoning district does require a stair step back from the street. Once you get beyond 10 feet from the front property line, it can go from two stories to three stories.
 That's all staff has to add. However, I'd be happy to take any questions the council might have. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this?
 Sure. Thanks, Jonathan. Will you clarify for us, under neighborhood conservation, would a single-family residence have to abide by our tree preservation ordinance or our drainage requirements? It would not. What about under RIU? If it's being developed as single or two-family, it would not. If it was developed as three or four, it would. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to?
 So, some of the council. Good evening, Mayor, Council. Thank you for your time tonight. It's always good to see you. First, I just want to remind everyone. Would you introduce yourself? Sorry, yes. My name is Michael Ward. I represent the property owner at 1248 South Washington. Thank you.
 Firstly, I just want to remind everyone that Planning staff did in fact recommend approval of the rezoned request and Planning Commission approved it unanimously. Some of the reasons for their support include the following and I am quoting directly from the staff report here. Land uses and immediate and general adjacency to the subject property are diverse and staff finds the proposed rezoning is generally compatible with adjacent land uses.
 The Walker Park Neighborhood Plan encourages a variety of housing types. City Council has approved multiple rezonings over the last two years, allowing two, three, and four family dwellings in mid-block locations amidst single family dwellings in the neighborhood. And the requested rezoning is justified and needed at this time to increase options for the developer and increase the number of units possible for construction. Now, increased options is a
 A little vague, a little unusual, but I think the better way of thinking about it is a need for flexibility. And RAU creates this flexibility to meet market demands and meet the goals of infill and opportunities for attainable housing. So specifically in this property, though of course it's just a rezone, there are no plans in place,
 The property owner's ideal project is, in fact, to split the lot into three and to build three smaller houses of two stories. That is ideal and that's why the RAU is actually being proposed because we can have narrow lot widths in this case.
 I understand that the concern of the three-story house is a big factor. I acknowledge that concern. He and I both agree that a three-story house in this neighborhood is a bad idea. It wouldn't work from an aesthetic standpoint and probably wouldn't work from an economic standpoint. It would be hard to sell, maybe rent too. And again, without this rezone, the only option really is to build one larger, more expensive house.
 But there are a couple larger issues too that I'd like to address, I think we should acknowledge. For each resident or group of residents, it may make sense to oppose an individual rezone request. After all, they live there, they feel the effect, I understand that. But the question is, what happens to a city when every neighborhood has the same response? When every neighborhood opposes density or opposes new infill projects or opposes diverse building options?
 the city doesn't change. The urban form doesn't evolve, and the demands of the market, demands of the city aren't met, the housing demand specifically. And then the other issue, well, as we know, Enterprise Community Partners has been conducting a regional housing study. Obviously, they're not complete yet, but I found this particularly interesting. Their preliminary findings in public meetings in Fayetteville specifically included four or five people
 Four or five items that Fayetteville residents identified and the two that are most relevant in this case are and again this is coming from Fayetteville residents a greater diversity of housing options or types and accounting for housing plus transportation costs or the H plus T metric with relation to you know proximity to amenities in this case and RAU in general you have an option to meet a
 that you know desire those issues that are being put forth by the residents of this town um and in addition to that of course it aligns perfectly with the goals of City Plan 2030. um I'm happy to answer any questions the property owner is in fact here tonight if you have specific questions um and that's all I have thank you okay what questions do we have for the advocate
 Everybody good? Yep, sure. Actually, I have one more question for staff. Jonathan, can you clarify what is the height limit of the existing lot as it stands right now under the neighborhood conservation? Three stories. And what is the height limit under the proposed R.I.U.?
 It's two stories within 10 feet of the front property line and three stories beyond that. Thank you. So actually, I just want to clarify that you can already build a three-story structure on it by right right now, and we receive additional height protections if we go to RIU. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Okay, let's take some public comment. Here's the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone unless the council wants to ask you questions.
 You have a five minute time limit, unless by vote of the majority of the council, they want to give you more time. Your comments to be kept to me, don't engage anybody in the council or anybody in the public. Stay on topic. So if you get off topic, I'll get you back on topic. If you don't get on topic, then you'll have to sit down. So who would like to be first? Give us your name and address, please.
 Hi, my name is Nancy Allen. I live in Ward 2, and good evening to Mayor and Council. I note that affordable housing is still one of the city's goals. It was something that I lobbied for, along with some others of you, when I was a member of this esteemed body once. Main change is that apparently no one can charge the podium anymore. That's a new game, isn't it? But it opens.
 It opens. We have an open gate policy. Oh, OK. Anyhow, it's disappointing to me that a lot of what we're talking about for affordable housing is the same as what we're talking about tonight. A large contingent of the folks, people that are opposed,
 Excuse me, a large contingent of the folks in the area proposed for rezoning are here tonight and have written to you asking you not to rezone. It was my understanding when I was an elected official that it was my mission to listen to them and to represent their points of view.
 At the first reading, one of you said that if the rezoning caused a current homeowner to no longer be able to live in this area in their neighborhood, they might have to move to an apartment. What would make you think you have the right to make this call?
 They are here before you asking you to include them in their decision. We're talking about their homes, not their infill or their spot zoning or aesthetics or new urbanism. These are their homes and their neighborhoods. I am proud of Fayetteville for so many reasons. One of them is diversity.
 And that's what we want for all of our citizens. Do all of you? Are you listening to them? Thank you. Thank you, Nancy. All right, who would like to be next? Good evening. My name is Karen Bly, and I own property at 1067 South Washington. At the first reading of this rezoning request, several of you mentioned the need to go back and look at the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan. I did the same.
 And to me, the case against spot rezoning could not be more obvious. Page 2 states, quote, this document provides implementation for the short-term, 0 to 5 years, mid-term, 6 to 10 years, and long-term, 10 plus years. That's where we are. This is restated on page 40 under implementation.
 As Councilmember Kenyon stated at that meeting, the growth of Fayetteville was anticipated and these long-term goals were included. This plan is still relevant. I would be personally interested in knowing if Fayetteville has hit the population projections that were made when this plan was developed. Page 19 under single family dwelling units, quote,
 Adding single-family homes that reflect the current lot and home sizes will add to the fabric of the neighborhood and increase owner-occupied housing, unquote. That's opposed to rentals, which they referred to earlier on the page. It then goes on to describe the areas of the neighborhood where it would be appropriate to have additional single-family homes.
 Same page, under multi-family dwelling units, quote, the development of these units in strategic areas such as neighborhood commercial areas or major thoroughfares puts additional eyes on the street, enables residents to live in the same neighborhood during different phases of their lives, and retains the balance of housing that currently exists in the neighborhood. Again, multi-family in commercial areas or major thoroughfares.
 Page 41, implementation section, short-term projects. Number one, rezone the neighborhood to encourage an appropriate mix of uses and protect established neighborhoods. It goes on to state, quote, adopting the alternative zoning will ensure that the area preserves established single-family neighborhoods.
 while encouraging additional housing types and a mix of uses. The proposed rezoning will change the vision for the neighborhood, as demonstrated in the maps below, reflecting the community's desires.
 The rezoning that was done did give this neighborhood the mixed uses that the plan refers to, a mix of neighborhood conservation, Main Street Center, and downtown general. I don't see how anyone who reads the master plan could not come to the conclusion that spot rezoning lot by lot is undermining this plan. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Please. Thank you.
 good evening everyone uh my name is jesse milwey and i'm here to speak in favor of the rezoning my family currently owns a house about two blocks from this location my mother resides there and both her and i are in favor of the rezoning i really think it'll add to the uh
 the housing needs of that area and I Think in the end once it does settles the results will be tasteful and it'll be a good addition to the neighborhood And that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you to
 Hello, my name is Lisa Meeks. I live directly south and adjacent to 1248 South Washington. I have an electronic presentation. I don't know if that can be pulled up or if it was going to be pulled up today. That would have to be a vote of the council to allow the presentation of any sort of presentation. So, Adele. I move that we allow her to show her presentation. Mark. I will second. Thank you.
 Will second that I'll make it last five minutes Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes
 Okay, let's see if I can operate it. I don't think that's a presentation, but I'll go with it. This is the house located at 1248 South Washington that was bought by Sherrilyn Properties and bulldozed in 2018 and is now being proposed for rezoning from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban.
 The Walker plan in no way suggested tearing down older homes and replacing them with multiple rental units. Enfield was to be concentrated in wooded areas with no pre-existing homes, that area that is now the houses at Willow Bend. The Walker Park neighborhood currently has a sufficient variety of housing types and densities, and RIU is not compatible with South Washington Avenue. It's called Neighborhood Conservation for a reason.
 If we go back to the Walker Park Plan, which is not part of this presentation, the Walker Park Plan won two awards. One from the Arkansas State American Planning Association Award for Comprehensive Planning, and the SketchUp model won the 2008 State Award for Achievement in Technology.
 The majority, there was little infill proposed for South Washington Avenue between 7th and 15th Street. The majority of the proposed infill from the 2008 Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan consisted of what is now the houses that well have been, which is over 77 houses. 1248 South Washington rezoning is a spot zoning, interrupts the fabric of the Walker Park Neighborhood against the plan development in 2008.
 As an individual lot is rezoned out of context with existing zoning, other lots will follow and request rezoning. I might even request my lot to be rezoned downtown general and open a bar in my garage. Rezoning requests place a financial and emotional burden on city planning staff, city council, and especially the neighbors. And these have been going on, as we've seen, for the last three months. Every neighborhood is against the rezoning in their neighborhood.
 This rezoning would remove a single-family home lot and replace it with multiple rentals, which are out of character with the adjacent group of small single-family homes. And if I remember correctly, reading the code, zoning can be done on a block-by-block basis. Okay.
 Small lot widths under RIEU would create an out-of-scale development pattern when compared with immediately surrounding homes. Rezoning of this lot condemns South Fayetteville as a rental-based neighborhood, not an owner-occupied neighborhood. Rezoning of this lot would decrease natural habitat because every time they come in and do building, they remove the trees and the bushes.
 The rezoning of this lot would reduce sustainability by decreasing land. There's a thing called family food security where you can have a vegetable garden if you've got enough lot. Multiple buildings on two small lots with no yards do not provide anywhere for vegetable gardens. Single family homes maintain the stability of South Washington Avenue. And I can tell you, living by the two quadplexes,
 In my neighborhood, there's drama every weekend, every week, every day. Some of the drug dealing has gone down, but it's a problem. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay.
 Thank you Mayor Jordan and Council Members for this opportunity to speak. My name is Kathleen Conway. I've lived for 40 years on Morningside Drive, which is in the boundary of the Walker Park neighborhood. My husband was one of the 200 citizens involved in developing the master plan with the city.
 I'm asking that the request for a zoning variance at 1248 South Washington be denied because the variance does not meet the standards set by the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan. First, in regard to multifamily dwellings, the plan states that, quote, duplexes, triplexes, and row houses should be built in strategic areas such as neighborhood commercial areas or major thoroughfares.
 South Washington Street is a narrow residential street which does not fit this requirement.
 Second, the intention stated in the plan to, quote, preserve established single-family neighborhoods, we want to see South Washington preserved as a single-family neighborhood. And the Willow Bend development, which will be low- and moderate-income single-family homes, fits this description. But the variance could allow a multiplex up to three stories with possibly four units.
 Third, the Walker Park neighborhood is one of the oldest neighborhoods in the city. And as the plan states, much of the core of the neighborhood will likely remain single family, which, quote, reflects the current lot and home sizes and will add to the fabric of the neighborhood and increase owner-occupied housing, unquote.
 I would like to see the council make a commitment to continue to increase the number of owner-occupied homes on South Washington and in the neighborhood. Finally, the citizens who gathered with the City of Fayetteville to create the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan developed a collective vision of what was possible.
 Quote, success depends on the willingness and capacity of all stakeholder groups to implement the vision. So far, good progress has been made in achieving some of the plan goals. Right now, we are in the long-term phase of the plan, and we must recommit to implement the plan in order to continue to make a positive difference in our neighborhood.
 I ask council members to make that commitment tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? My name is Deborah Kalisa-Kitts, and I appreciate the opportunity to get to speak. I live at 1127 South Washington, a few doors from the proposed variance. I am of the opinion that I...
 I don't think that this is a good idea. I am a gardener. I moved into the area because one of the things that's important to me is a sense of green space. The area just south of Sequoia Mountain, Mount Sequoia, is a very rich piece of property. I have five neighbors within three or four blocks that I've known for over 35 years.
 It's important to me to maintain this sense. It's an intangible thing, but there's a sense of neighborhood. I'm getting older. I'm surrounded by people who are much younger than me in my neighborhood. I often get phone calls. Someone's in your driveway. Someone's in your backyard. I appreciate that. One of the things that's important to me is to maintain the single-family buildings on my street.
 Neighbors being neighbors can build long-term relationships and that's something that I believe is a healthy thing in our in our City I was one of the inaugural members of the garden that was put together next to the senior center
 I understand that we have a need for infill, but between 7th Street and 9th Street, we have already too much. It's narrow. It's difficult to drive. When there's a lot of traffic there, people have to slow down and wait. On 13th Street, we have a large number of rentals available.
 the east towards the east between South Washington and Morningside Drive, there's a very large number of rental units already there I'm asking that you not grant the variance to add another rental unit to our home And I'm not against rental places because there are people that live at 13th Street in a four-unit rental They have been there for years and I've been there for
 Almost nine years in every single one of the people in that unit has been there that long so there are people that are my neighbors and that I appreciate I One of the things that's really important to me about the green space I grow food and I have one of my hobbies is providing in my backyard and in my garden perennial edibles when
 I formerly was a co-owner of a property in Rose Hill Addition, 919 Lindell Avenue, just south of the, no, actually just north of the university. It was the oldest home on that street on Lindell Avenue right at Hughes. A three-story building was built just directly to the south of it.
 And that garden in the backyard, which is 100 years old, is unusable for growing vegetables because of the shade. This is the kind of thing that would happen if we continue to allow three-story and very high two-story buildings to be built next to
 owners and people who garden. To me, that's something that I would like to preserve. There's two lots just to my south, two doors and three doors away from me. I'm not sure what's gonna happen, but I really would like to see them preserved as single family units.
 So I'd like to ask that you not approve this variance, that you allow this to go on as a neighborhood conservation to remain. I'm passionate about my neighborhood. I'm passionate about South Fayetteville, and I appreciate your time. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Thank you for your time tonight. My name is John Rimmers. Recently purchased a lot at 1067 South Washington. I'll be brief. Others before me have spoken more eloquently than I and provided you with a lot of detail about the Walker Park neighborhood master plan. And it does present a very definite pattern of development for that neighborhood.
 My wife and I are like others that are newer to the neighborhood and we have invested a huge amount of our personal life savings to begin this phase of our life in that neighborhood.
 When others speak of investments or increased options for the developer, what about those of us who bought land there with the understanding that this master plan was in place and that that was what the city recommended? And it is just that, a plan for the future of the neighborhood. If you're going to depart from the plan, right,
 which I hope is not the case, then at some point in the future, I hope that there's some mechanism to assure a high compatibility with the rest of the existing neighborhood. I know that that's not the issue for tonight, but I do hope that that is something that can be considered in the future, not only for this rezoning request, but also for others that are zoning neighborhood conservation throughout the city. Thank you.
 um the city does need guidelines for infill development rather than just spot zoning from time to time thank you for your time thank you who else would like to address us okay I'm going to bring it back to the council all right who wants to go first Mark well
 I was very much involved in the Walker Park neighborhood plan, and I'm glad that it was referred to tonight because it was to set a vision. And we accepted that plan in good faith, and this lot is in the neighborhood conservation area of that plan because we need to conserve the identity of this neighborhood as we promised in the plan. So...
 One thing that's been brought up is spot zoning and we have done some spot zoning, but this always should be the exception and not the rule. And to use spot zoning that has already been through the city council as an argument is an invalid argument because what we have before us tonight is the consideration of changing a plan that we promised to respect. We also had, of course, a lot of activity with the neighborhood during the plan.
 And it has continued, and we have seen some really nice development in this neighborhood that I believe unfolds exactly as the plan had promised. I think that we really must seriously consider in the future the impact of spot zoning because tonight we did hear the argument, well, you've done it somewhere else, why don't you do it here? That's not valid here.
 With due respect of the elements of the Walker Plan, until it's revised with the same amount of enthusiasm and the same amount of participation,
 Cannot vote against that plan and I cannot disrespect the neighbors that spent over there was over 200 neighbors that Participated in that program someone asked about the population projections the population Projections that we were given are right in line with what we anticipated when we talked about the development of the neighborhood so that's another valid argument and
 that this is for the short-term, the mid-term, and the long-term. Now that we're in the long-term phase, maybe it's time to reconsider. But until we have a reconsideration that has equal participation, then I do think that we should follow this plan. That was the reason we did the plan. A lot of hours, a lot of time. And so I will be voting against this rezoning. Okay. Sarah? Okay.
 Thank you. I would like to start by reading the definition of or the purpose behind the residential intermediate urban zoning and I would like to remind the council that this was not a tool that we had available at the time of the development of the Walker Park master plan.
 So the purpose of residential intermediate urban residential district is designed to permit and encourage the development of detached and attached dwellings in suitable environments to provide a range of housing types compatible in scale with single family homes and to encourage a diversity of housing types to meet demand for walkable urban living. You know, when we think about making that we will... Where did our number one...
 Goal go on our 2030 city plan is that we would Make appropriate infill our highest priority that is not showing up on our screen But that is the number one goal of our 2030 city plan and when you think about what is appropriate infill And where we should thank you there it is It changed. Yeah So when we think about where we should be having appropriate infill that would be
 Within walking distance of our commercial centers, which this lot is It would be in close proximity to our parks to our trails to our transit system Which this lot is you know if there is a place where a pro infill is appropriate This is a neighborhood where infill is appropriate and
 You know, the other thing is in terms of neighborhood conservation, there is nothing, there is no single family house here to conserve. This is an empty lot. This is an empty lot that is joined immediately on the north by multifamily lots. There are four plexes developed all along the lot that touches this on the northern boundary. Okay.
 And then the lot with the garden is to the south, which if you know, the sunlight comes from the south. So this, no matter how tall this property is developed, it will not shade the garden of the homeowner to the south. In regards to...
 rental properties. I hear a need to go to single-family owner-occupied units. Well, over 60% of our households in our entire city are rentals, and that is a trend that is growing because of the economic reality and the change in family structures that we're seeing in our demographics. So we need to be providing more rental properties. And historically, South Fayetteville has been a working-class neighborhood.
 And if you think about the average worker, say somebody making $10 an hour, they cannot afford a large single family home. That's a $400 housing budget that they have. And so that's generally going to translate to an apartment. We need to provide that diversity of housing types so that people can live in their neighborhoods throughout their lives, whether they're a student, an entry level worker, a young professional,
 an empty nester, a senior citizen, and providing that diversity of housing types allows people to age in their neighborhoods without having to relocate as their family status or their economic status changes. And then I would just finally like to remind everyone that both the Planning Commission and the Planning Staff have recommended unanimously to approve this. So with that, I will be voting to approve this. Okay, Kyle.
 There's a big assumption that these are going to be rentals And it may be accurate. I'm not sure but that's not really the the topic of a zoning decision So I'm gonna steer clear of that one. I Do have a question neither for Jonathan Maybe maybe mark has the answer to this since he was involved in it How specific was the neighborhood plan with regards to zoning Sarah mentioned that this zone didn't exist then but but what does the plan say? on that topic
 I'm not entirely sure exactly what you're asking. It did very specifically rezone almost the entirety of the area. I believe it was until that time of that plan it had all been blanket zoned for multifamily development. And this plan was a big step to try and redress that issue and the concerns associated with that. So, yeah, it was very deliberately rezoned to NC at that time. As Council Member Marsh did note, there were several zoning districts that are currently available now that were not at that time. Okay, thanks. I can answer.
 part of that if you look at the walker park plan there is a diversity of housing in that plan and it was specifically taken into the vision as they were developing it and as was mentioned it was a lot of this property was rezoned at that time to meet the diversity of housing needs that will develop as the population grows in this area
 This was rezoned to this neighborhood conservation for a specific reason. And one of the things that I think is bothersome is this spot zoning, because in the plan, it was taken as a whole, and there was a lot of arguments, and there was a lot of discussion, and in the end, they came up with a very solid plan where we do meet needs.
 the needs of multifamily and single family and retail and commercial, and you can find that in the plan in the map. So it was very specific and very well planned at the time to come up with these different zones. Thanks, Mark.
 The reason I ask is because we have our zoning map and we also have our future land use, and sometimes we get those questions
 those two interacting back and forth in interesting ways because the future land use is not nearly as precise. It kind of gives a big idea and I wanted to make sure I understood the intent of the plan along those lines. As I listen to the comments on this one and many other rezonings we've had recently where RAU has come up.
 There's some talk about density, but most of the objections seem to fall along style and height. In style, decades change, and architectural styles do too, and we can find examples all over the city of buildings from different time periods, but I don't think we can use that as a grounds to...
 to argue against how we draw the little boxes on the map. And that leaves height as the other big, very reasonable concern. But that's the difference between, I guess, land use and air use here, the way we've got it defined. I'm not sure that the conversation we're having necessarily addresses the biggest problems. Council Member Marsh pointed out that we're not –
 not decreasing the height limits here at all. In fact, we're not increasing the height limits, we may actually be decreasing them in the front parts of the property. So I think it would probably be wise of us to start looking at our height limits since that seems to be the major point of friction on a lot of these, whether it's daylight planes so that we make sure that we have
 avoid the shade issues i think the uh the the visual that we saw at the very beginning in the presentation actually jonathan do you have that conveniently available yeah that one were those were those drawn to the maximum building envelope just kind of give the the worst case bulk scenario is that what we're looking at here yes the neighborhood conservation example the bigger block could have been wider but
 would have been exceptionally unrealistic. Gotcha, okay. As I drive down the street and look at some of the other houses that have been built on the spot zoned R.I.U. parcels, they don't look like this. They're not big flat roof boxes. They've got contextually appropriate roof lines that don't blot out the sun the way that we're usually afraid that they're going to when we hear three stories.
 So I'm less concerned about that because of the way that these practically get built. So I'm not entirely sure where I'm going to fall on this one because I have complained about the spot zoning in this neighborhood basically since the first week I got up here. And I think it's time to look at this plan and in the context of new zoning tools that we have that weren't there before, make some solid decisions about what does fit.
 But there's some of my thoughts on it. It seems like we talk more about height than we do about the actual footprints of the building, which is what the zoning seems to adjust. Thanks. Okay. Adele? Well, I think we have an interesting discussion here, and it's kind of like, you know, there are a lot of things printed, and, you know, are we going to follow those
 printed things very stringently or are we going to listen to the residents of the community? You know, when we did the Walker Home neighborhood plan, as Mark Kenyon said, we made some promises to some people and
 I don't want to be a part of any government that makes promises and then a few years later decide, oh well, I don't want to follow those promises. I want to be able to put in a whole bunch of whatever I think fits in that neighborhood.
 As I said the last time we discussed this, we have plenty and plenty of multifamily and rental in this city and I'm all for it. We do have need of it and that's great.
 but we do not have to impose it on every single neighborhood, especially when we as a city have made a promise to individuals. And we've heard some folks tonight say they've spent a lot of their money coming into this neighborhood because they saw how it was planned and they knew how it was planned.
 So I feel very strongly that we should not that we should not approve this Rezoning I will not be voting for it. I will be supporting the neighbors. Thank you. Okay Thank you mayor I Think for a lot of us it's really easy to scapegoat developers and kind of feels good whenever we do it and
 It's really easy to blame developers for all the bad things that are happening over years that we watch happen to our city and our neighborhoods. Certainly a lot of them deserve the blame. But I think we should be careful accepting that development looks like a black box and only thinking that it's got money and jerks in it.
 We should unblack box what happens with development and shed some light in there because I think whenever we do we realize that So much of what we're concerned about Isn't driven by people making a decision.
 So I think I'm the only developer up here and I built a three-story mixed-use building in an area that almost everybody I think would agree was appropriate. And the rent is way high for my liking. We charge about $1,000 for a one-bedroom unit and more than $800 of it goes to the bank before we even get to pay our utility bills.
 So we have to charge a certain amount of rent because of what happens. And most home builders who are out there and most people who are just trying to build units are forced into a particular rental model or sale figure by the cost of construction and the cost of their financing. Nobody out there is trying to say, you know, I'm trying to stick it to the neighborhood and that's why I'm making my decisions.
 So I think it's really important that we un-black box things and ask why stuff is happening. So on this particular site, we see that the house has been demolished. There's lots of reasons maybe we wish it could have been saved. I hope that we can pass some codes that will encourage the preservation of houses by allowing things to happen on a lot of people choose to preserve a house.
 You'll be sure you catch that series. I can start over. We don't have time limits up here. Let's see, where was I?
 I think lots of times whenever we do that and we look at this lot in particular, we see that the house is gone now and there really is a choice for the developer who has to make good on the property, even if they're not going to make any money on it, who just has to fulfill their obligations. And we heard it at the very beginning, it's one large house or a higher number of smaller houses.
 That to me is almost the whole thing, but not quite all the whole thing. It's most of the whole thing. One large house will be more expensive. If our concern is affordability, one large house is going to be more expensive. I know our concern is affordability and I should add to that any new house is going to be expensive. Even the houses that are being built in neighborhood conservation parcels are still expensive. It's because of how much construction costs. It's because we don't bring home the same amount of money, our dollars aren't worth as much. They feel so much more expensive.
 A lot of that stuff is way beyond our control. But it's a fact that right now people who are moving here that make more money than the people who already live here are outbidding people who are still here. They're moving here. They have more money. They're outbidding us. The only way to fix that is to increase the supply of housing. It's the only way. I'm not saying I like it. I'm just saying the math is relentless. It doesn't care if I like it. I mean, life is hard. Math is hard. We have to deal with it.
 And this is one of those things. I'm a little bit... I wouldn't say I'm surprised, but I do think that what Councilmember Smith has said is right. The opposition is mostly about style and height. I'm a little bit...
 I'm disappointed that there are some people, not everybody, and I do think there's a minority of people in Fayetteville, but some people equate renting with problem neighbors. I don't think anybody is involved in drug dealing or other issues just because they're a renter. I think those are management issues. Those are issues that are deeper in our community. Thank you.
 And I think saying that you have friends who rent, so even as you say single family is the best thing and it's definitely better than renting, saying I have friends who rent is like saying I have black friends. People who rent are still our neighbors. And hey, guess what? I'm a renter. I'm not leaving. I'm still going to be a Fayetteville citizen. And we should care for our citizens even if they're renters. And it's okay to rent. Renting doesn't make a bad neighborhood. Bad management makes a bad neighborhood.
 um i think the height issue is for me is is at least in this decision i'm interested in looking what we do with height long term uh and in a broader in a broader way but on the height issue on this particular decision it's it's equal and even if we do think gardens are more important than shelter and i don't like putting those things in a head-to-head i think that's a mistake but even if we do think that gardens are more important than shelter nobody is going to say you're not allowed to plant a tree in your property
 That might shade your neighbor's yard. So I think we have to be fair about that. I think what's more important and what's more dangerous in this discussion is the notion that first off that this is spot zoning. It's not. Spot zoning means doing something in an arbitrary way.
 That's not what we're doing. We are looking at the same documents you are and the same trajectory of the city as you are and coming to a different conclusion than you. That's because, that's not because we're unreasonable, it's because we disagree. And reasonable people, especially reasonable people who are making a good faith effort can disagree about things. That's okay. It doesn't mean we're not neighbors anymore.
 so i think sometimes we lose sight you know that disagreeing doesn't mean that um that that uh that people are doing things in bad faith which is what spot zoning requires so when we look at a plan and we say i'm reading it as well and i come to a different conclusion that that means that we're we're we're by definition that can't be spot zoning these kinds of plans they should they're not intended to be strictly interpreted forever like a law
 or like the Constitution. There's intended to be guidance for us in these decisions. Guidance that we need because we're required to exercise our discretion. If you want to know why we think we have discretion in these matters, it's because we're in a democracy and we were elected to use our discretion. That's how our system of government works. So in terms of my discretion, what I've seen is the house that's there is already gone.
 I would rather have three smaller houses which are relatively affordable compared to the one large house which is inevitable otherwise. That's just a decision based on the math. And in terms of the plan itself, when I read the plan, I see that it was blanket zoned before for multifamily. That was wrong. The pendulum was way over here. I don't know who did that. Probably happened in the 80s or the 90s. And then whenever we realized planning was a good thing,
 in the last decade, and we started doing planning in earnest. This was the first neighborhood master plan we did, and everybody knew that multifamily blanket zoning was wrong. And the pendulum swung all the way to the other side, and now it's blanket zone for single family only. There's a middle ground. It's not the case that there are only two kinds of developments. It is not the case that there is only single family on one side and multifamily on the other. There's a whole spectrum of stuff in between.
 and we can't be in a position this is bad for our community to say single family is okay you can put as many bedrooms as you want in it and you can all live together as long as you're related by blood but if for some reason you have to buddy up with a friend and share an apartment then it's not good for our neighborhood we've got real data now that shows the affordability problem is going to become a crisis if that's how we operate we've got real data that shows
 Farmland on the edge of town or in the next town over gets eaten up at an extraordinary rate when we have to build houses out there instead of inside the city. There are real concerns from a social perspective and from an environmental perspective with our conversation about infill. It's a mistake to call this proposal high density. It's a mistake to call it medium density. It's a single family proposal.
 And if they propose anything else that doesn't look like a house, they have to come to the planning commission and go through this whole dog and pony and probably not get it. It's very unlikely. Neighborhood conservation today allows multifamily biconditional use, and it never happens. It's not a real risk with RIU. And I don't think that it's a good enough reason to be against this just because it's going to put houses on lots that are barely skinnier than some of the other lots that are on the street. So I'm ready to support it. Okay. Sarah. Yeah.
 Thank you. I would also like to address the idea that narrow lots are inconsistent with the fabric of the neighborhood. All along MLK Avenue, there were recently some shotgun houses on very, very narrow lots that were just demolished. Those were probably built during the 20s or 30s. And if you look at the historic fabric of this neighborhood, very small, narrow lots were common.
 So that's not inconsistent with the history of the neighborhood. And I think we as city council have a responsibility to efficiently utilize valuable urban land. And that's what allowing a better utilization of this through a little bit more density, but at a scale that is still compatible with single family housing would do.
 And I would also like to point out that today's expensive new homes are tomorrow's affordable older homes. And that new homes and new construction is expensive because, you know, I think that we should be paying our construction workers living wages.
 Because there are a lot of people that work in the construction industry, whether that's the surveyors and engineers, the architects that design the houses, the land clearing people that go out there and do the debris, the people who lay the foundations, the framers, the drywallers, the painters, the real estate agents, and everyone who is involved in this. These are jobs created in our neighborhood by new construction.
 And also mixed income neighborhoods are more resilient neighborhoods. You know, we talk about we don't want to flood South Fayetteville with too many affordable housing units or we don't want to concentrate poverty because we want a diversity of incomes in our neighborhoods because those are stronger neighborhoods. But then I'd also like to point out something that's been happening in my neighborhood where we see the construction of, quote unquote, single family homes, but they're rented by the bedrooms.
 So if we were to leave this as neighborhood conservation, a developer could build a three-story house that would max out the lot and rent those by the bedroom. And average rent for a bedroom these days is about six hundred dollars a month. So if you were to have four bedroom home and
 At $600 a month, that's $2,400 in rent a month. That's a pretty good payback on that investment, and it would be hard. You know, I don't think that the $2,400 a month rent as a single-family house would really be sustainable in that neighborhood.
 And what happens when you build a single family home and you rent it by the bedroom, you're only required to build two parking spaces for that home. So that's when we start having overflow parking and some of the additional management challenges that come with moving rent-by-the-room tenants into homes that were allegedly built for single family. Okay.
 By rezoning this, we can create the opportunity to build appropriate housing types for these higher densities, or we could allow the developer to go in under the existing zoning and build a three-story house right by the room. Thank you. Okay. Who else? John. Dare I weigh in? It's been a good discussion, and I appreciate that. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I don't like the term spot zoning. I don't like the term blanket zoning.
 What we need to be looking at is, is it compatible with the neighborhood? I know that argument has been made, and it's a valid argument. But what the speakers at the podium didn't tell me was just to the north, there are quadruplexes. I feel like there was, you didn't give me all the information I needed. I like the idea. I agree that we need housing diversity. We need a variety of housing. And you may not want it right smack dab in your neighborhood, I understand.
 I have to back up and talk about renting. I have neighbors that are renters. They're some of the best folks I know. I know some rental neighborhoods, you know, you have drug deals going on and you have low morals and, as one speaker put it, drama. It doesn't have to be that way. And the millennials that are coming in, just like Council Member Marsh and Council Member Petty discussed,
 There are changing ways of doing business. A rental agreement is nothing more than a form of financing for paying for your housing. In accounting, we learn about operating leases and financing leases, and there are differences. And a financing lease is nothing more than a lease. It's just a way of financing housing. So I don't think we should be aligning or maligning people's character because they're renting.
 Some very nice people rent some very nice people own single-family houses Some very mean people rent some many mean people own single-family housing I mean, it's not a basis to evaluate a person on whether they're renting or their own etc. I Like the idea of more housing just what councilmember petty was discussing. I agree with we're gonna have people living in the streets if we don't build more housing and
 We need that. By the way, I disagree with Matthew Petty when he says we live in democracy. I believe we live in a republic. But anyway, I'll be supporting this, and I know that's going to disappoint some of you. We need housing. People need housing. I'm a gardener. It's the lady who was the gardener. I love growing vegetables. But I realize even on my property, there are places I can't grow vegetables. Not every place is good for vegetables.
 And I agree with Matthew Petty again. I mean, if we're going to weigh the value of shelter versus vegetable gardening, I'll come down in favor of shelter. I think there's no shortage of we have a lot of vegetables available at our farmers market. Vegetables are readily available in a lot of places. Housing is not so available. We need available housing. So again, I don't like the term spot zoning or blanket zoning.
 I mean, to say that a person buys a plot of land and if he's not going to just rezone that one plot of land, he has to go to get all of his neighbors to agree. I mean, it's hard to get three people to agree, much less a neighborhood pool, to agree on a zoning, just like we see the divergence of opinions here in this discussion. So please understand, we're trying to serve you, but we're trying to serve other people that are moving to our area. And to do that, we need housing, and that's what we're trying to accomplish. Thank you.
 Okay. All right. Anybody else? Sarah. Yes. I looked back over the Walker Park plan, and that was the one thing that really gives me hesitation about voting in favor of this.
 is I hate having a plan for an entire neighborhood that maybe needs to be revisited and reevaluated but that's our plan now and however you know I thought long and hard about this and I recognize and I agree that we need more housing in this community and that housing
 It might be end up being rental property, but that rental property whether it's rental or whether it ends up being You know owned by someone that that's a unit that can be that someone's mother can live in that someone's in-laws can live in that a single person maybe can live in that a young family can live in and and
 we need those we need those people in our neighborhoods every neighborhood needs to have those people in it or it is it is aging and it is kind of declining i think so i understand we need more units i do feel that at some point we are having these issues and the same complaints like councilman cook not cook smith said wrong kyle um
 wrong Kyle going back a few years there but the councilman Smith said is that we have keep having the same complaints it's the height and the the style that the consideration of the style I think we probably need to go back and review some of these issues throughout the city because I don't always vote in favor of rezoning sometimes I vote against it because I don't like the way it fits in with the neighborhood
 sometimes I vote against it because of the traffic and things like that and those are all things that I took into consideration here but I think I will be supporting this because I think it fits pretty well with with the other properties in the area thank you okay okay what we have before us is so we're not going to be
 than anything until we move from where we are to where you might want to go. Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adele? I second that motion. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the vote? Teddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6341 for approximately a quarter acre located at 1248 South Washington Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Okay.
 what i am seeing from this conversation tonight we don't do anything i mean however this vote goes we need to be looking at some sort of control over the height that needs to occur because if i hear one complaint more than any other complaints that i might hear is that and on these um resonances about the height and i got to tell you i've seen some stuff put in this town that it don't fit i mean sometimes we get to look at some really nice little pictures
 and then they don't build anywhere anything close to those pictures it's just looks like rick them rack them and stack them and so ever however this vote goes tonight i think uh i think we're going to have to look at looking at some sort of controls on height scalability whatever you want to call it and we're going to do this i mean there's too much of this going on
 So I've been talking to staff about that. I know the chief of staff and I have been talking about this. We're going to have to start looking at these hives and neighborhoods and make things scalable where they fit. Now, I will say this. In my neighborhood, I have my little house, and then I have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 rental houses all around me.
 I've got and just two houses up is two sets of duplexes and we've all lived there for ever and we all get along and we have a nice neighborhood. So I do agree that I don't think because people rent a house that makes them bad people. I've seen people that are very nice people that have single family homes.
 I want to make that clear as well. But this will not be the last time we're going to face this kind of situation, and we're going to have to start to address the concerns that we are seeing with some sort of ordinances. So with that, Senator, would you please call the roll? Katie? Yes. Emmett? No. Fetch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Gray? No. March? Yes. No. Dixon?
 it passes on a five to three vote okay all right thank you all i thank you all for the conversation all right okay we're number two sorry an order to rezone that property described as zoning petition rzn 18-6348 for approximately 136 acres located north of 2454 north dean solomon road
 from RSF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, and C2 thoroughfare commercial to C2 thoroughfare commercial. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading, if you wish. John. Adele. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sergeant, would you please call the roll? Eddie. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Latara. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6348 for approximately 1.36 acres located north of 2454 North Dean Solomon Road from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and C2 thoroughfare commercial to C2 thoroughfare commercial. Okay. Staff. Staff.
 thank you mayor the only additional piece of information is as of this afternoon city engineering staff advise that they are still awaiting paperwork before they can release the grading permit for the property i suppose it's not new information that is the most up-to-date information the city engineer is available for details if need be thank you rish you got anything you want to add
 Just as far as our process for the grading permit, they have to install the silt fence and other sedimentation control items. They do have that installed. We're just waiting on a signed permit
 signed paperwork for the for the ADEQ permitting So they have made progress. They've told us that They think it'll take a couple of weeks or less to actually do the work once the grading permit is issued Chris are you comfortable calling it a done deal? I would say the work that they've done so far indicates that they do intend to follow through they do have a contractor in place and
 And again, it's it's you know within a couple of weeks. We think it should be done matter of paperwork Well, it's a matter of paperwork issue the grading permit and then they have to finish the work So there's still some construction work to be done Well, maybe the app is that good yeah, yeah, it's African here they won't speak Alright Matthew
 Could you remind me how the grading permit is related to the rezoning request?
 I'll make an attempt at it because I don't think there's a relation to the zoning permit. I think we were asked by Councilmember Smith that there were citizen complaints and problems related to this issue. And so before we moved forward, he wanted to know if the proper items had been done before we advanced since there were three reading opportunities to try to resolve that issue as well. If I'm misspeaking that, you can correct me.
 My understanding was that there had been a zoning violation dating back to January that included some expansion of their business use that also created some or contributed to some runoff issues that were sending mud across City Street during the rain and that those were just the business expansion and the grading.
 and the zoning were all kind of wrapped up in one there and before saying it's okay to continue using the land for this business purpose, I want to make sure that we had settled the runoff requirements. Okay, thank you. So what are you all going to do? Anybody from the public want to weigh in on this? Yes.
 Okay, bring it back to the council. You want to hold it right here? Is there a reason to wait now that they've installed the self-protection measures that weren't in place before? Okay. That's what I was going to ask. Is there a reason to hold it?
 i'm just i'm just want to be sure everybody's okay with everything fully maybe maybe i should clarify the requirement to get their grading permit they have to have their temporary erosion control measures in place before they can actually start the work that they're required to do to address their grading violation so they still have more construction work to do to get the permanent erosion control measures in
 And again, that's right that the work is not complete and and again They think it'll take only a week or two of work to get that done And we do expect we thought maybe the the paperwork would be in so the grading permit could be issued today But it should be really just any day. It's a signed form that we need That's what we would expect if weather cooperates yes So it just be on the next week
 Is everybody okay with that? It's been ongoing since January. I don't see a reason to rush. Everybody good? All right. Let's move along to the next one. Let's see. Oh, yes. It takes us to a public hearing, right? That's correct. All right. All right. I want to open a public hearing. It reads, Resolution authorizes the city attorney to seek common donation in possession of
 certain lands owned by Hustle Holdings LLC needed for the extension of a 12-inch water line from Hot Strive to Maple Street.
 Staff yes, Tim. Thank you mayor the city engineering department has prepared a design for a 12-inch waterline project That runs west on a razorback road along Thomas Avenue Worsley Drive also Road and all of our Avenue the design is complete and when the project is ready to be bid out for construction I
 the owners of 1521 west hostel road have not agreed to grant the easement necessary for this water line is the only remaining easement the city hired region associates to provide an appraisal the city offered the appraised amount of twenty one thousand nine hundred dollars as compensation for this easement and the impact of the waterline construction
 To date, the owners have not granted an easement. So we'll continue to negotiate with the owners if we can communicate with them. However, it is imperative that the utility easement is acquired in timely manner so we don't delay this project any further. Okay, what questions do we have for Tim? Is the applicant here? Would they like to speak to the council?
 No? Okay. Mr. Mayor, I should probably inform the council that the attorney for the applicant did call me right before the start of this meeting, indicated that he did want to continue to negotiate. I informed him that my office does continue to negotiate even after we have to file the condemnation so we can get possession of the land. So it is our goal in this case, like in every case, to attempt to work out a reasonable settlement. Then I would be able to come back to the city council and present to you
 However, I think our water department will tell you we need to get this project underway. There is another easement for another water line I think that runs parallel to this. I wish we could just put it in that easement, but I don't think there's room. Is that right, Tim? We can't do that? Tim Gatlin, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management, Water Management,
 unfortunately we have to get the second easement and So that's where we're at right now We just I guess for construction reasons. We can't wait any longer. We must go forward and eventually be able to get a Possession an order of possession of this easement even if we haven't been able to come to the right price yet, okay What questions we have in the council? Okay What public comment do we have on this? I?
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Adele. So, Mayor, are we ready to pass the resolution? Yes, I believe we are. I move we pass the resolution. Okay. Mark? I will second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Kemp? Yes. McBride? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Keenan? Yes. Thanks, Council. This has been going on a while. All right. Under new business number one.
 A resolution to award bid number 18-51, an authorized contract with Electrical Resources Incorporated, any amount of $478,256.07 for the installation and lining along Cato Springs Trail to approve a project contingency in the amount of $15,000 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is for about 2.9 miles of lighting along the Cato Springs Trail.
 The total cost of the project, of the bid amount, as the Mayor mentioned, is $478,000. We have a $320,000 federal aid grant, so the city's share is about $158,000 on the project. Staff recommends approval of this contract. And I'll answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Chris on this?
 Not as much a question for Chris, but thanks to your staff. I know we caught him on a week when there's a lot of folks out of town for vacation, but Matt Mihaljevic has been awesome to work on the color of the lighting concern that –
 we've been talking about on the last few of these. And I know it seems like one of those minor spec sheet items that shouldn't make much difference. But one of the great things about the LED lighting that we're investing on in the trails is that it's going to last a long time. And so it's an opportunity to get it right, even on the little details. And Matt and I had a chance to go out and look
 and look at the test lighting on the Akaska. And there were some lights of a cooler temperature that produces a slightly redder hue, which there's some,
 Super technical research says it's just generally better for night vision and for the rhythms of Humans and wildlife and since we're going to be running these out in the woods all night long all the time I think I just want to thank y'all for paying attention to the details on that so that we can get this right and it does sound like like the park staff was a
 content with the results of the test lights and looking to change this out for the different color. Okay. Anything else for Chris? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. John. Mayor, I move we pass the motion. The resolution. Yeah, resolution. Sarah. I'll second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Okay.
 Councilman LaTorre, can you hit the motion button for us? Okay, we're good now. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Hit me. Hit her. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6386 for approximately 0.26 acres located west of 203 West Miller Street. From RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Yeah. Okay.
 Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF 4 residential single-family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single-family 18 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville Reflected zoning change provided in section 1 so
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is just south of the intersection of Poplar Street and Gregg Avenue, just about one lot in from the intersection of Miller and Gregg. It is currently undeveloped, although it is surrounded on three sides by single-family zoning and single-family uses. It is adjacent to some multifamily property to the west between Gregg and the property itself.
 The request itself, staff feels it's very compatible, not only with surrounding land uses, but with the adopted city plan and future land use map of the year, which designates it as residential neighborhood area.
 Under that designation, the widest variety of residential housing is encouraged and staff feels that the RSF 18 zoning district will accommodate that, but not to an extreme degree. This will create a gradual transition from Gregg Avenue towards the neighborhood with multifamily on Gregg, potentially two single family homes on this property and a larger lot single family property to the east.
 That said staff does not see any major issues with their quest and us in the Planning Commission are of like mind that recommended approval on This item it is worth noting that there was some public comment of the Planning Commission meeting in opposition to the higher density on this property There were also some concerns about drainage in the area. I have to take any questions the council has thank you All right. What questions do we have?
 Sarah? Yes, Jonathan, what kind of give me an idea you know just what would be the most you know I always try and figure out with our ADUs and you know with a with you know like if we had duplexes there what would be the most that someone could build on this property?
 Certainly. Given its existing street frontage, the most that can be done as far as subdivision and development would be to create two lots from the one lot. And under the RSF 18 zoning district, that would allow one single family home on each lot. Potentially under the new accessory dwelling unit ordinance, you could have two accessory dwelling units on each one, totaling 1,200 square feet altogether. So it could be two principal units and...
 i guess six overall units on the property for which would be pretty on the small side totaling 600 square feet each okay so we got lost count here so we've got so we've got two if we if it's split then it's got it could have two single family homes two detached adus and two attached to attached adus at the most okay thank you any other questions
 okay what public comment do we have on this all right John I move that we suspend the rules ago the second reading Adele I second that motion okay we have a motion in a second go to the second read thank you
 Yes. Senate. Yes. Batch. Yes. Affair. Yes. Right. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Union. Yes. And in order to rezone that property, describe your rezoning petition RZN 18-6386 for approximately 0.26 acres located west of 203 West Miller Street from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre.
 Mark? Jonathan, could we look at the future use plan again and see that it fits in what we have identified in the future use plan? I think it does. I just want to reassure some people that have contacted me about this. Certainly. The property in question is located just under the cursor there. It's classified as residential neighborhood area. So the rezoning is still going to fit in this?
 Yes, yes, sorry. I did not pick up that you want me to speak more to that. Yeah, another residential neighborhood area It is as you know with all our future land use map designations They cover a very broad you listen uses but the residential neighborhood area particularly in this location staff is comfortable that Two single-family homes is entirely appropriate and I think the confusion comes where there's that niche there that's blue and
 to the west and then it turns into yellow to the east or that lot that we are staying within what was recommended in the future land use map so and it is i just wanted to reaffirm that it is that is staff's finding okay thank you okay so what would y'all like to do
 Mark. I move we go to the third and final reading. Sure. To suspend the rules. Second. Thank you all. Second. Sandra, would you please come to the table? Anthony. Yes. Emmett. Yes. Dutch. Yes. LeTour. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes. And the ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6386.
 approximately a quarter acre located west of 203 West Miller Street from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to RSF 18 residential single-family 18 units per acre Okay
 What final comments do we have in council? Everybody good? Alright. Oh, sure. Just as we've been having the conversation about neighborhood compatibility all night long, this is one of those opportunities where we're looking at the edge of two zones on the map, like Mark pointed out, and I think
 This is a great way to blend those edges when we look at stepping up the density from the RSF 4 further up the hill or into the neighborhood out to the multifamily on the street. This is what should go in the middle. Any other final comments? Sorry, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, number three, a resolution to approve a lesser dedication of street right-of-way, reducing it by about 10 inches from the center line from what the master street plan recommends along the applicant's property at 310 East 7th Street. Who has that? Jonathan, is that you? I do, Mr. Mayor. Okay. Okay.
 This particular piece of property is on the northeast corner of 7th and Willow. It's about a block east of Jefferson School, if that helps orient you a bit more. It was developed with a single family dwelling in 2016. More recently in 2018, the applicant or the developer approached the city to subdivide the property into three lots as can be shown here.
 As a part of that, and part of staff's review, it is required that right-of-way dedication does occur. This is a standard requirement for all lot splits in the city of Fayetteville to ensure that they comply with the master street plan and allow the city the ability to fully improve our streets as the master street plan adopted by the city council allows.
 As a part of Stiles' review, it was determined that a deck was built into the massive street plan right away at that time, as noted, approximately 10 inches or so.
 Both Willow and 7th Street are designated as local streets with a 50-foot associated right-of-way width. This includes 28 feet of pavement for two driving lanes and a parking lane, 6 feet of green space for street trees and utilities, and a 5-foot sidewalk and back of curb. As you can see in the image in front of you, that's not necessarily how it's built today, but that is the Master Street Plan section intended for it.
 As far as the issues go, and staff has already touched on the major one here, is that the deck was built into the master street plan setback and the right of way dedication is required at the time of the lot split. Staff's concern is that with the granting of a lesser dedication of right of way future street improvements may be limited, while 10 inches may not sound like a lot, when you start looking at many of our street sections, things like utilities in particular start getting crammed and then you have to sacrifice things like your green space and your street trees.
 Additionally, the requirement that right-of-way be dedicated along here is consistent with properties further west along 7th Street. That said, staff is recommending denial of the requested less dedication of right-of-way. The Planning Commission did recommend this item be forwarded to the City Council with the minimum necessary reduced dedication. As it is, the applicant is requesting that 10-inch reduced dedication along the entire frontage of 7th Street, not just where the deck is.
 And the second portion of the Planning Commission's recommendation was that at the time of development, if it should come on 7th Street, the property owner will dedicate that right away. Staff offers an alternative set of...
 conditions. Our concern is that things like this would get lost in the mix and our preference would be that the right of way be dedicated at this time with the allowance that the porch be allowed to encroach for the time being and if and when the city does decide to improve 7th Street in the near or long term, that time the deck would be removed or modified to not encroach into the right of way. With that I'd be happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have? Has the applicant here?
 Thank you. This is actually my sister's property. She built the house there a couple years ago. And a couple things to note. Unfortunately, it was built in the Mastery Plan right away. I think that it may be, if any have been by there, it's a real narrow house. It's a tiny house. And it's...
 she wanted a big porch that could face the neighborhood and just be something that could be somewhat public because the house was very very narrow when the permit was submitted it actually had to be pushed forward to the street because of the uh build two zone so i think that the deck may have also gotten pushed slightly forward because of that um
 One thing I would also like for you to note is that this is a small lot. This is a downtown general, so it's meant to be dense as per the Walker Park master plan, which y'all referenced earlier. It wasn't rezoned to a higher zone. This is what the master plan was.
 said and if this were if this were built as a two-family, four-family unit it wouldn't be split. There would be no right-of-way dedication and so because the request to split the lot and not actually make it more dense than it would otherwise be then right-of-way dedication is required and again I think you've seen the right-of-way dedication is
 I can't remember offhand, but it's 10 feet on willow and 6 feet on...
 on 7th Street or something like that. So it's a very large portion of the property that is city's requesting. And I would also just like to highlight too, as we mentioned the Walker Park Plan, there were numerous infrastructure improvements that were in that plan that were on the short, medium and long-term plan. If we look at actually go down the list, as I've been here, mentioned to you all before,
 a lot of those haven't been done and I realize that there's budget issues and we need to you know provide infrastructure across the city but it just seems that if we're you know to make her remove part of her deck in order to split the lot for some long-term down the road plan to widen the road I just
 i think that that's uh a stretch so thank you okay what questions do we have from the council mr mayor i sent a memo to the city council and as well as yourself and planning concerning this because i was somewhat concerned from a constitutional point of view
 Certainly, our Unified Development Code allows us, in fact, kind of instructs the planning department that if there is a lot split that could cause an impact upon our infrastructure needs that something like a right-of-way dedication can certainly and is usually appropriate.
 In this particular case, if I read from Bates and Associates' letter, who is the engineer in this particular case, they were saying that the required right-of-way that we were trying to take was approximately one-sixth of this individual's property.
 which seems to be a large amount and potentially larger than what the Constitution would allow us to do. The owner has requested only a very minor reduction in this, 10 inches from the center line. So instead of 25 feet, it's 24 feet and 2 inches.
 I know that what this would do is keep the deck from intruding upon what the dedicated right-of-way will be. That's not what the right-of-way is now, but that's what the right-of-way is supposed to be under the Master Street Plan and that's what planning is asking for. So my recommendation to you would be to follow what the Planning Commission did in allowing a lesser dedication.
 But I would say that this should be without any kind of conditions because I believe that it is such a large amount of right-of-way dedication that we should not place or try to place any conditions upon it. Some of the conditions that have been suggested today
 I don't know how we could do it, actually. If we decide then to enlarge the street, then we say all of a sudden, well, you lose part of your deck. That's not the kind of action that allows us to do that. It's action by a developer that allows us to require a dedication of additional right-of-way, sometimes building a sidewalk, other things like that. In this particular case, I think...
 The request from the applicant is appropriate and reasonable and that I agree with the planning department that the lesser dedication should be agreed to by the city council. Planning commission can't do that. Only the city council can and that's why it's before you. Thank you, Keith. Matthew. Yeah, I have a question about not this particular project but my question is do we often allow buildings to be constructed in the right of way, the master street plan right of way?
 No, this was built not based on what was approved on the building permit. Based on staff's research, when this came through, we looked back at the approved building permit, and this was built outside of or into the Master Street plan right away, which was shown on the site plan with the building permit. Z, can I ask you a question? Did I hear you? I'm inferring from something you said earlier. Did you say that it looked like the whole plan just got shifted forward to meet the Build 2 zones? No.
 Well, yeah, honestly, it was a whirlwind when it went through. It happened real fast, and what I recall is that we had the plan, and at some point, I remember, we submitted it, and it had to be pushed forward.
 south towards Willow because the 25 foot build to Zone so we didn't have a setback. It's downtown general. There's no setback on the side or Front but because of the small and the and she wanted a large deck we had to push it closer to Willow Like I said, it's it's real unfortunate that was built
 built that way and I don't know why that wasn't noticed under construction. Okay, thanks. I offer a point of clarification.
 the built to zone for single family homes that does not require a minimum buildable street frontage there isn't a minimum amount of a house that must be in the built to zone for a single family home i don't know if it's very visible on your screens but the larger bulk of the house is well within the built to zone it was not necessary for it to be shifted southward for those purposes anyways i'm not i'm not saying the applicant is being disingenuous but that is not a requirement of of the zoning code
 Okay, any other questions from the council? Okay, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council, okay.
 I just want to clarify with our city attorney. Kit, you're saying that you recommend that we agree with the planning commission's ruling to go ahead and approve the lesser dedication of the street right-of-way but with no conditions? Is that what you're— Without conditions, but you would approve, I would hope, the lesser dedication by 10 inches of the right-of-way.
 This is especially important where the deck is because that would be such a major loss to the homeowner, the property owner. Whether or not you want to continue that along the other two lots that are being created or not, I'll leave that totally up to you. I think the Planning Commission recommended only by the deck, and I'll just leave that up to your judgment. It's not a giant reduction no matter what you do.
 Okay, so then that would be approving the resolution as it's written because the resolution does not impose the conditions. Is that correct? I'm sorry, say that again? Would that be we approve the resolution as it's written because the resolution doesn't have any? Okay, well, with that, I move that we approve the resolution. Okay. Justin? I think that just answered my question. A yes vote is to approve with no additional conditions. Thank you very much.
 yeah I started says that a second okay I have a motion in the second to pass the resolution yes yes yes yes yes yes okay
 number four in order to sway the crime form competitive bidding into approved cost share agreement with Zeta Gamma House Corporation of Kappa Delta sorority for street improvements along portion of Maple Street and vendor Avenue with the amount to be paid to the city of federal not to exceed twenty eight thousand four hundred seventy dollars yeah whereas the Zilta Gamma House Corporation of Kappa Delta sorority
 is constructing a new development at the northwest corner of Maple Street and Vanderbilt Avenue, and, based on the rough proportionality of the development's impact on city infrastructure and services, is required to construct limited street improvements along its property frontage on both streets.
 And whereas the engineering division has identified off-site street improvements, specifically a realignment of the curb and sidewalk to create a safe intersection with Vanderbilt Avenue, the cost of which would exceed the rough proportionality of the development's impact. And whereas waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on-site installing the street improvements for the developer's
 Now therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with Zeta Gamma House.
 and Corporation of Kappa Delta sorority for the installation of street improvements along a portion of Maple Street and Van De Venner Avenue as shown in the map attached to this resolution with the amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $28,470. Chris. Yes, thank you, Mayor. As part of the Kappa Delta project, the development was required to build sidewalk on their frontage
 however that intersection at Vandiver and Maple as we know is maple is excessively wide on the east side of end of enter that was not part of the requirement for the development but as part of this as this was was coming together staff identified that as an opportunity to work with the developer the engineer and the contractor to reduce
 reduce the size of that intersection take out some of the pavement make that intersection more walkable overall and so that's what's presented here before you that's uh 28 000 to the city to cost share on this part okay what questions do we have for chris good okay what public comment do we have on this okay bring it back to the council yeah mr mayor i would like to thank uh
 the city engineer for working with the sorority here following the constitution and Coming to the right decision on how this should be resolved. Okay, so what you want to do mark I'm movies have been the rules and go to the second reading. Okay, John second motion there We have a motion in a second to go to the second rate Please call the roll
 Yes. Tenant. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Loger. Yes. Yes. Rye. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. And in order to sway the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Zeta Gamma House Corporation of Kappa Delta Sorority for street improvements along a portion of Maple Street and Vandiver Avenue with the amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $28,470. Yes.
 and so adele i move that we go to the third and final reading okay mark i'll second that we have a motion in the second to go to the third and final reading so would you please call the roll
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And orders to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Zeta gamma house corporation of Kappa Delta sorority for street improvements along a portion of maple street and van de Venner avenue with the amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $28,470.
 Okay, hey final comments from the council good Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Okay, number five
 In order to waive competitive bidding and authorize Mayor Jordan to enter into agreements with Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation and Today's Power Incorporated for the development, construction, and operation of solar power generation and storage equipment and facilities at Pebbles Westside, Nolan, wastewater treatment facilities, and to approve
 a budget adjustment to provide funding in the amount of five hundred sixty thousand eight hundred eighteen dollars and thirty eight cents for side improvements necessary to connect to solar arrays whereas on january 2nd 2018 pursuant to resolution number 25-18 the city council adopted an energy action plan which includes a goal of 100 clean energy consumption by city facilities by 2030.
 And, whereas the City's two wastewater treatment facilities are the largest electricity-consuming accounts making up approximately 67% of the City's overall electricity consumption, and whereas installing solar panel generating and storage facilities meets the City's goal of converting to clean energy will lead to improved reliability for the wastewater treatment facilities, reduced dependence on backup generators,
 upgrade the electricity grid servicing the treatment plants, and should also result in cost savings to the city and taxpayers. And whereas Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation, Ozarks Electric, is the city's monopoly power provider where the wastewater treatment facilities are located and is a shareholder in Today's Power Incorporated,
 which will allow the city to obtain the benefits of a total package arrangement for solar power generation, storage, maintenance, electrical upgrades, energy management, and net metering that would not be possible otherwise. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the city council or the city of favor so hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirement formal competitive bidding for solar power facility installation and related services at the west side and nolan wastewater treatment facilities pursuant to the agreements described below
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign a trilateral agreement with Ozarks Electric and Today's Power for the development, construction, and operation of solar power generation and storage facilities and equipment at the Westside and Nolan wastewater treatment facilities. Section 3.
 That the City Council, City of Fayetteville, and Archer hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign two ownership and operations agreements with Today's Power for development, construction, and operation of solar power generation and storage facilities, which provide for 99% ownership of the solar power generating system by Today's Power,
 and one percent by the city and which requires today's power to finance the purchase of install and maintain the solar power facilities section four
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign two lease and easement agreements with today's power for approximately 48.95 acres at the Nolan plant and approximately 37.8 acres at the Westside plant for the installation and operation of solar power generating facilities section 5.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign two solar power services agreements with Today's Power for the purchase of solar power services at a cost of 4.7673 cents per kilowatt hour.
 Section 6 that the City Council of the City of Fairlarkshire hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign a facilities upgrade agreement with Ozarks Electric in the amount of five hundred and sixty thousand eight hundred and eighteen dollars for the construction and upgrade of the city's facilities to allow for the interconnection and storage of electrical energy at the Westside and Nolan plants. Section 7
 That the City Council of the City of Fable and Arksar hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign an energy management agreement with Ozarks Electric, which provides for the management by the city of backup generators at the west side and Nolan plants in order to reduce energy consumption during peak conditions, which will allow the city to remain on the large power off peak rate as long as the trilateral agreement remains in effect.
 Section 8 that City Council the city of Fable arcs are hereby approves a budget adjustment a Copy of which is attached to the City Council agenda memo in the amount of five hundred and sixty thousand eight hundred eighteen dollars Provide funding for the make ready site improvements authorized by section 5 of this ordinance. Thank you
 Mayor and council good evening. I'm very excited to present and recommend approval of a trilateral agreement between the city of Fayetteville Ozarks electric in today's power Inc for the development construction and operation of 10 megawatts of solar power generation and an associated 24 megawatt hours of battery storage at Fayetteville's to wastewater treatment facilities and
 If you will recall, on January 2nd of this year, City Council adopted the city's first energy action plan. That plan had four focus areas for reducing the community's overall greenhouse gas emissions. Those four areas were reduction in overall energy use, diverting waste from landfills, shifting towards clean energy supply, and
 and reducing transportation emissions. One of the specific goals in that plan related to city government operations and it was a goal of transitioning to 100% clean energy for city facilities by the year 2030. Currently the city government operations consumes electricity that is made up of 16% clean energy and Fayetteville's two wastewater treatment plants are our two largest energy consuming facilities consuming approximately 67% of the total electricity that the city uses.
 The plants have generous land resources, making them obvious targets for clean energy deployment. The city's east side plant, the Paul R. Noland Wastewater Treatment Facility, first came online in the 60s and served ably as Fayetteville's sole wastewater treatment plant until the mid-2000s. In 2008, the west side treatment plant came online and began serving much of the northern and western portions of the city of Fayetteville, while the Noland plant continues to serve the southern and eastern portions of the city. They're located in the...
 White River Basin. The east side plant is located at 1400 North Foxhunter Road and it sits on 515 acres on the west side of the White River. The city owns another 670 acres. It's on the other side of the White River. That land is home to the Fayetteville Biosolids Management Facility. There's hay fields there that are used for the spreading of water treatment residue and for the
 Locating solar on that property does result in the loss of revenue for the application of those biosolids and hay cutting. That loss is approximately $22,000 per year in revenue. The city's west side plant sits on 300 acres at 15 South Broyles Road near the headwaters of Goose Creek on the west side of Fayetteville off Persimmon Drive.
 Lands that the city owns that surround the plant are home to the beloved Woolsey Wet Prairie, the Woolsey Historic Farm, and some relic undeveloped wet prairie and oak savanna habitat and some additional lands that the city is considering developing as a working farm.
 Since coming online, both of the wastewater treatment plants have received electric service from Ozarks Electric as they're the sole electricity provider in both the outer eastern and outer western portions of our community. The city first established electric service with Ozarks Electric in 1964, and today we have 93 active electric accounts with Ozarks Electric.
 Ozarks Electric is a non-profit member-owned electric cooperative utility. They're headquartered at 3641 West Weddington Drive here in Fayetteville. They provide for the distribution of electricity to more than 70,000 customers in nine counties in northwest Arkansas and northeast Oklahoma.
 and they are a 117th owner of the Arkansas Electrics Cooperative, which provides wholesale power generation and transmission to Ozarks Electric and 16 other electric cooperatives across the state of Arkansas.
 Today's Power, Inc. is a fully owned subsidiary of the Arkansas Electric Cooperatives. They were developed by the Arkansas Electric Cooperatives to offer community solar to their nonprofit members, such as Ozarks Electric, because those nonprofit members are not able to take advantage of federal tax credits for solar development projects.
 The unique relationship between the city, Ozarks Electric, and today's Power Inc. has allowed for the three organizations to develop the trilateral agreements that are before you. Those agreements provide for the development, construction, and operation of
 10 megawatts AC of solar power generation, and I'm told that solar plants are typically rated in terms of their DC power production, their direct current power production, and when you make that conversion, we actually have an 11.5 megawatt direct current generation.
 solar facilities at the two plants. Associated with the power generation is the associated 24 megawatts of energy storage, 24 megawatt hours of energy storage at the two wastewater facilities. They'll be split in half so there's five megawatts of generation and 12 megawatts of storage at each plant.
 The solar panels will be installed on sun tracking system that allows for maximization of the sun's energy and increases the production of the panels by approximately 15% I did want to point out that the battery storage that is associated with it with the two projects is particularly unique in Arkansas and advantageous many renewable energy and
 pundits if you will will sometimes throw out that the Sun doesn't always shine or the wind doesn't always blow and so how can we Rely on wind and solar to help us make a clean energy transition as we move forward But battery storage offers the ability to store that energy when the wind is blowing and when the Sun is shining and then deploy it I'm in times of darkness and when the wind isn't blowing and it helps bridge the gap the reliability gap and
 in terms of power supply and it also saves Ozarks Electric money in terms of their cost of peak power purchase.
 As part of the agreement today's power Inc will lease approximately 87 acres of property from the city at the two Wastewater treatment plants they'll provide full ownership and operations of the facilities during the 20-year life of the agreement The city will agree to purchase power from today's power Inc at a rate of 4.8 cents per kilowatt hour for 20 years
 The current price that the city pays for electricity from Mozarks Electric is a little bit over 5.1 cents per kilowatt hour, so there's a price reduction there. I would note that that 5.1 cents per kilowatt hour is a number that's likely to increase over the next 20 years, while the 4.8 cents per kilowatt hour that we'll be buying power from from today's Power Inc. will remain flat for 20 years.
 the city will own 1% of the solar array and today's power Inc will own 99% as An additional part of the trilateral agreement Ozarks electric will pay the city to manage our backup generators at the two wastewater treatment plants That will help them minimize peak power purchases in addition to what the battery storage will provide Ozarks electric is also paying the city for load associated with
 cooling and lighting at the battery storage facilities and then there's a small storage loss amount associated with the battery storage that Ozarks electric Will be paying this city as well
 The 10 megawatts of solar panels will generate approximately 18,300,000 kilowatt hours of clean energy per year that will offset approximately 103% of the total electricity consumption at the two wastewater treatment plants. The excess 3% electricity generation will be net metered against other Ozarks Electric accounts that the city has.
 This project will change the amount of clean energy. I mentioned that currently we are at 16% clean energy This project will move us to 72 percent clean energy, which is a significant stride towards that city government operational goal of 100 percent clean energy by the year 2030 and
 The total savings associated with the project will be approximately $182,000 per year, with a return on investment of just a little bit over three years. The total savings of the project over the life of the project, which assumes that increase in cost of power if we weren't buying from the solar panels, that 20-year savings is estimated at nearly $6 million.
 There are some zoning and development considerations in the contract the package of agreements includes a requirement that today's power Inc submit their developments for the construction of the two solar arrays The west side property and plant will have to be submitted through the city's zoning and development review the east side plant Which is in the county will be submitted through the county's development review process for large-scale developments and
 Additionally, the contract requires that approximately 36.62 acres of property at the Westside plant be rezoned from RSF 8 to RA. That rezoning request has been submitted to the Planning Commission and will be brought back to City Council after their November 26th Planning Commission meeting.
 Some necessary site improvements at the two wastewater treatment plants will cost the city a little bit over $560,000. That money is coming out of the Water Tour Reserve Fund. And as was mentioned, the payback of $180,000 a year on savings pays that $560,000 back in just a little bit over three years. The ongoing cost of electricity that the city will purchase, as was mentioned, is $0.48 per kilowatt hour, and that's for the 20-year life of the agreement.
 That'll be glad to answer any questions you all might have At the end of the agreement who owns the hardware on our land the the equipment the city there's language in the Agreement that allows the city to buy the equipment at the depreciated cost of it if we choose not to then today's power Inc Would continue to be the owner of the equipment Oh, thank you, mr. Mayor
 Peter, I want you to know I've been researching you. I had lunch with a high executive of a power company in our area, and he agreed with your analysis. He's my energy consultant. I also want you to know I own one solar panel, and I'm excited about it. I like innovation, and if solar panels and wind turbines are the way to go in the future, apparently Ozark Electric believes it. Apparently AEP Swepco believes it.
 that a lot of people are moving in those directions. So I'm pleased to be part of a city that's looking ahead and seeing what's down the road. I think one day we'll all have solar panels on our roofs generating the power we need for our houses and our cars, maybe in my lifetime, but certainly in my children's lifetime. We'll see. So it's exciting to be a part of it. Thank you for your work. Thank you. Okay, anybody else? What public comment do we have?
 Hi, my name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Bradstreet. Can I get some questions answered? How is the solar array lot going to be done? Because there's a handful of ways people do it, and if we're just going to gravel lot it or pave it, that's kind of like switching your...
 smoking to going to snuff because what it's not really a trade-off because you're ruining a different part of the environment for That I'm in favor of these solar panels I like this but like we have a chance to do something forward-thinking and we could actually extend the Woolsey Prairie environment place which I kind of want to talk about in the next part too because these are kind of tied together but I
 If we're just going to pave and then have all that turbidity of the water go right back into the management thing, that's kind of, it kind of switches some of the, the,
 the pollution from energy to the pollution from the water runoff so we need to be careful about that so when we do this and we do that we need to be careful that we're making sure we're not just switching one pollution for a different kind of pollution and also when we do go ahead and i think we should do this but when we switch from rsf8 to rsf to rsfa or ra we need to
 make an adjustment somewhere else in the city, because as we've seen already tonight, like there's a housing crisis, because we don't have the right zones in our city. So if we're taking away some of our denser zones, then and making it a lighter zone, then we're gonna have to make a denser zone somewhere else. And I'm okay if that's over by where I live on Ruppel Road and Persimmon, it's in the same area, but let's be thinking about that, like our consequences, our actions here have actions elsewhere, thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Do you wanna address that, Pete?
 Mayor, if I could just address that real quick. I'm actually really glad he asked the question about what's going to be under the solar panels. We're not doing gravel. That has been done in a lot of other solar projects. We're working with the solar developer and Jacobs Engineering, who operates the two wastewater treatment facilities.
 and the Northwest Arkansas Regional Land Trust to develop plans for integrating native plants and native seed mixes under and around the arrays. As was mentioned, the proximity to the Woolsey Wet Prairie out at the west side plant and the proximity to the already amazing biodiversity that's there. We're really trying to create a project that is complementary to that in terms of the –
 the environmental impact and what goes back after the solar project is done. The fields are basically Johnson grass right now, which is an invasive grass. So the goal is to end up with something a lot more close to native restoration than what's there currently. Jess? Peter, so if you –
 and i would imagine that people do pavement or gravel because it eliminates maintenance needs this would create maintenance needs or it would be covered by the agreement that will be in place so there will be added cost for the maintenance of any plants or anything like that for it by the way
 So today's power is on the hook for the maintenance of the panels and the land that they're leasing. The goal is to develop a native planting plan that has as little maintenance as possible, but it is recognized that there's likely going to need to be some mowing and some level of vegetative maintenance to keep what is planted from becoming too tall and shading the arrays. But you're not worried about the maintenance overtaking the value of the...
 No, I think my understanding is currently they have figured into their pro forma a maximum of 12 mowings or maintenance applications per year on the site, and the goal is to get it reduced to something way less than 12. Okay, great. Thank you very much. Who else would like to address this on this one?
 Hi, Theresa Turk. I just want to say this is the best thing I've heard the City do in a very long time. I hope you'll support this action and maybe it will be the first step toward fulfilling the Energy Action Plan and actually moving beyond that. So way to go team. I think this is excellent. Thanks, Theresa. Who else would like to address us? Okay, we'll bring it back to the Council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 mark I'll second that yes yes yes yes yes
 in order to waive competitive bidding and authorize mayor jordan to enter into agreements with the ozarks electric cooperative corporation and today's power incorporation for the development construction and operation of solar power generation and storage equipment and facilities at fayetteville's west side and nolan wastewater treatment facilities and to approve a budget adjustment to provide funding in the amount of 560 818.38
 for site improvements necessary to connect to the solar arrays. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adela. I second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senators, please call the roll. Teddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Latour. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Smith. Yes.
 In order to waive competitive bidding and authorize Mayor Jordan to enter into agreements with the Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation and Today's Power Incorporated,
 For the development, construction, and operation of solar power generation and storage equipment and facilities at Fayetteville's Westside and Nolan wastewater treatment facilities, and to approve a budget adjustment to provide funding in the amount of $560,818.38 for site improvements necessary to connect to the solar arrays.
 Mr. Mayor, I'd like to take one second. Obviously you heard how many agreements there were. I'd like to acknowledge Assistant City Attorney Blake Pennington who worked long and hard with Peter so that if questions were raised, they got the answers, they made sure where the solar panels were going to be, what was going to be underneath them.
 we made sure that this was going to be in the financial interest of the city we avoided some of the complicated things they threw at us at one point to make it much more simple straightforward and i just think they did a great job here and and i want to appreciate i appreciate your work on this and also i wanted to acknowledge blake because he spent a lot of hours on this too sure go on i'm sorry i didn't hear you mayor
 I too want to thank, I have several thank yous. We don't often get the opportunity to celebrate fun things we get to work on. This was one of them. So first, the council for passing the energy action plan and giving us a big bold goal in areas that I think when we did it, people said, how in the world will you ever get even to half of what the council said? And we're getting to three quarters of it tonight. So that's the first thing. Secondly, for the mayor giving us the opportunity
 Um,
 charge and freedom to work on something exciting. I hope that a project like this shows the talent of the staff that you have working for the citizens. I think Peter and his team have done a stellar job. I wanna thank Ozark Electric and their team because the very first meeting we had, looking for creative solutions on how to help accomplish this goal. They've been a great partner for Jacobs Engineering and their staff and their advice that they've given us.
 numerous city teams you heard Kit talk about his team and we want to thank them they were critical on this Paul and the finance team as we looked at options Tim and his water and sewer team has touched a lot of departments and a lot of people to get to this point it's an exciting day
 Several years ago, a couple members on this council gave us charges of investing in energy efficiency improvement projects that resulted in savings for our taxpayer, our rate payers, and doing those in a payback period that...
 was acceptable and there was a concern about whether some of the projects that were talked about at that time Were too long at 8 and 10 and 12 years and so I want to highlight that we're talking slightly over 3 for the payback in this an opportunity for Us to utilize the dollars that are paid in this rate fund for other creative innovative ideas That will continue to make us more efficient. So I
 It's great to be the chief of staff of such talented people. And they've done a fantastic job, and I want to thank all of our team. Yeah, the final comments from the council. Well, I do want to say a couple of things. Of course, I want to thank the city council for having the vision to pass this energy action. That's what kick-started everything. So I got with Peter, and I said, well, they passed it, and we're going to do it. So we went down to Clarksville, and we looked that over, and I said, we're going to build one of these.
 So we didn't exactly know how, but in many things that we do, we don't always know how we're going to get there. You just know that you're going to start and you're going to get it done. And so when we saw the 10 years, we had to hit 100% of all of our city buildings. That was huge to look at. So we got with Ozark Electric, and I want to thank them, and today's power will thank them. And Peter and I, we spent a lot of hours meeting with people and
 Rooms of people and then more meetings and eight months and here we are so we have accomplished 76 percent of our energy goals Council in eight months I don't think this is a historic moment for us In the battery storage nobody's got that we got that and
 We got back up. I know that Marky looked at this on the Water and Sewer Committee. I just want to thank, I don't know who all to thank here. I know I want to thank Paul and Tim and Kit Williams, the city attorney. And it took a team effort, took all of us working together. You know, these are the kind of steps where we make not only a better city, we make a better world for everybody. And that's what this really is at the end of the day. So I want to thank you all.
 Thank you, everybody, for telling us. This is huge. Huge. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Teddy? Yes. Kenneth? Yes. Budge? Yes. Roger? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Thank you all. Let's see. Where am I? Okay. Here's another piece of important stuff here. A resolution to express the City Council's intent to
 to support the permanent preservation of approximately 44 acres of environmentally sensitive wet prairie and oak savannah habitat on city-owned property at the Westside Water Resource Recovery Facility. Peter.
 Mayor and Council, related to the trilateral agreements for solar power and storage that you all just proved, staff is recommending approval of a resolution supporting the permanent preservation of approximately 44 acres of environmentally sensitive wet prairie and oak savanna habitat owned by the city at the Westside Wastewater Treatment Plant.
 Some background at the Westside plant. The Woolsey Wet Prairie that is out there that is very much enjoyed by many of our citizens was constructed between 2005 and 2008. It's adjacent to the Westside Wastewater Treatment Plant, and it was built as wetlands mitigation for the Westside Wastewater Improvement System when that was built in the 2000s. The wetlands were required to be constructed to comply with Army Corps of Engineers for wetland mitigation.
 permits for wetlands that were damaged or destroyed in construction of sewer lines, pump stations, and the west side plant. A deed-restricted covenant currently is placed on the 43.8-acre Woolsey Wet Prairie site, and that is the area that many of our citizens know and enjoy today.
 November 2013 City Council passed a resolution which expressed support for the expansion of the Woolsey wet prairie to create an additional 80 acres of wetland mitigation bank Additionally a three hundred and fifty thousand dollar CIP was funded for the construction of the wetlands, but since that time Demand for wetland credits has decreased and none of that three hundred fifty thousand dollars CIP has been expended on the wetlands expansion and
 Since the construction of the originally from the of the original 43.8 acre Wetlands the Woolsey site has become quite popular with naturalists, especially the birding community It's also been designated as an important bird area by the Audubon Society with a reported number of 182 different species of birds on the site and surrounding lands owned by the city and
 As we began negotiating and siting for the 5 megawatts of solar power generation at the Westside plant, it was discovered that the preferred siting for the solar array was located which was to be located just to the northwest of the Woolsey Wet Prairie. That area potentially conflicted with some other environmentally sensitive wet prairie and oak savanna habitat that the city owned that was outside of the Woolsey Wet Prairie area.
 So the city worked with the land trust, the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust, and Jacobs Engineering who manages the plant to relocate the array into two different areas adjacent to the Woolsey Wet Prairie and adjacent to that sensitive area. In accordance with that 2013 resolution that I mentioned, the mayor is requesting that city council consider placing a permanent preservation easement on the 44 acres that's in the northwest corner.
 and protect that existing wet prairie and pristine oak savannah habitat. Additionally, the mayor is requesting that the unused CIP money that was originally intended for the wetland expansion be used to fund a management plan and for preservation of that additional 44 acres.
 the Bayer and staff feel that the ecological benefit of preserving and restoring the existing lands in its Habitat that exists now will provide superior long-term environmental benefit over the construction of additional constructed wetlands at the site
 If you all choose to support this resolution then staff would begin working to develop conservation easement documents and habitat management Plan that would be brought back to Council for approval at a later date. I should
 I should also note that during the initial siting work on the project, a master street plan conflict was identified with Persimmon Street along the northern portion of the property. So staff also worked with the solar developer to allow for adequate right of way of Persimmon Street so that it could be widened and improved in its existing location rather than locating it to the south.
 As I mentioned on the previous item, there's 36.62 acres of property along Persimmon Street that's currently zoned RSF 8, and it has a bill of assurance on it specifying that only single-family homes can be built in that area.
 So staff has requested and working to rezone that property to RA Which is what the balance of the property that the city owns at the west side wastewater plant I'm currently is owned as was mentioned that's going to Planning Commission on November 26th and will be brought back to you After that Planning Commission meeting there's a map in your packet that shows all the designations on the land. I
 As was also mentioned there's the request that the three hundred fifty thousand dollars in the CIP be transitioned from wetland expansion to management of the conservation site area and
 I know we do have at least one member of the public who has some pictures and some slides that she would like to share with you all to, I think, highlight some of the ecological benefit of the proposed 44 acres of preservation. So I'd hope that you all would be interested in taking a look at those. Yes, I believe Jennifer has a presentation. That will take a vote of the council. Okay.
 I need a yes. I'd like a motion to view the presentation. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to view the presentation. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Hinton? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Lutero? Yes. Smith? Yes. Wright? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Hinton? Yes. We're faster than the electronics. Yes.
 We've got our best ID staff on. Do I advance it here? All right, well, thank you for approving that. I'm Jennifer Ogle, chair of the Fayetteville Natural Heritage Association and a local botanist with Comprehensive Botanical Services. I would like to speak as a representative of FNHA in strong favor of this resolution to permanently protect this 44 acres of prairie in Oak Savannah, this remnant bordering Woolsey Wet Prairie.
 We're in support of this resolution for several reasons, including that it is very much in line with our mission to protect, to promote the conservation of natural areas in the greater Fayetteville area, to balance the needs of both people and wildlife for generations to come. This resolution to protect this property absolutely is in line with that mission.
 Primarily, the reason we support it is because of the rarity of this habitat type of grasslands in general. And it's been mentioned that we're looking at tall grass prairie and oak savanna remnants. And that's what these slides focus on primarily here. Prairies, one type of grassland, they once covered seven to 10 million acres in the Southeastern United States, and 99% of those have been destroyed. One percent remain.
 Savannahs, historically, were the most common and widespread of all grassland types in the southeast. They occupied more than 120 million acres in this region. Again, 99% of that has been destroyed.
 In the early 19th century, this map is showing surveys that took place by the General Land Office, the government office. They conducted surveys of public land in the 1800s. This survey was done in West Fayetteville in the early 1800s, around 1830. So the blue box that you see on this survey plat is the city-owned property, and the red box is Woolsey Wet Prairie, just for your reference.
 And you can see in the bottom center it says prairie. And so the surveyors would go through and they'd mark what they saw at one-mile squares. But then they also just took general notes as they walked along about what they saw, what the landscape was like. And they particularly paid attention to prairies.
 And so they mapped those pretty well with the technology they had at the time, which was very rudimentary, right? But from that, using our modern technology, there's a professor in Georgia who has been mining these old surveys for data, and he's been mapping prairies using GIS technology. And so from that map, this copy of this very old map, we have this.
 So the blue, well again the red box is Woolsey Wet Prairie and the blue blob there is the extent of historic contiguous prairie that was mapped by those GLO surveyors in the 1830s. And that account amounts to about 5,600 acres.
 of just that continuous prairie there. As you can see it moves south past Farmington into Prairie Grove, nearly to Prairie Grove, borders the mountains to the east, skirts Kessler to the west Milsaps Mountain, wraps around Markham Hill to the north, and it goes all the way to College Avenue. That's historic tallgrass prairie.
 Here's a little bit more of a close-up look of that. As you can see, we weren't able to quantify how much of this particular prairie has been destroyed but you know what this area is. We all know. There's a little bit of prairie just to the southeast of Woolsey.
 But it's under development or it's owned by developers and it will be developed. The complex of prairies, as it shows here, was about 21,000 acres that stretched from Fayetteville all the way to Lincoln. So it was pretty extensive. And we have stories like that all around northwest Arkansas. There's prairie in Benton County that has seen similar development.
 Here's a close-up of in February 2001. This is just a Google Earth image of Woolsey Wet Prairie. And all those circles on the map are what we look for when we're looking at aerial images of prairie. All those circles are prairie mounds.
 or nepcos, and so we're looking at a lot of prairie here, but the point of this is, this is this year, March of this year, I'll just go back and forth to show you how much development, you already know, how much development has taken place in these regions.
 And so we are very much in support of saving this particular prairie because, first of all, it's owned by you already. It's probably the only publicly owned piece of land in this continuous prairie in the city limits. I'm sure of it. Well, I'm sure of it.
 Another reason is because we can tell from the signature, from this aerial map, especially this old one in 2001, that this prairie, and the property in question is just west of Woolsey and north of Woolsey, it's never been plowed. So it's been heavily altered. It's being used as a hayfield right now, and it's been probably grazed in the past. Okay.
 But it's not been plowed and that's extremely important for restoration and for calling it a virgin prairie. And we can do that. We can call it a virgin prairie and a, and a, and savanna based on that. Another reason we, we think it's restorable and important to save is because we have the example of Woolsey itself, Woolsey wet prairie. It saw similar land use changes over time and when it was converted to wetland mitigation bank, a lot of those characteristics of the prairie were actually restored.
 And so botanists went through in I think from 2001 to 5 I think they found 47 species of plants on that property and then they applied fire to the landscape and other management practices And now we have ten times that many plants the majority of which are native In fact, they've found ten species of plants that are of conservation concern in the state so they're rare and they're tracked by the Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission and
 I'm convinced that if you approve this and agree to permanently protect this land, you're going to find the same exact thing happens on this property, except it'll be better because it won't be converted to a wetland mitigation bank.
 It will retain all of its original historic and prehistoric characteristics. This is an excellent and unique opportunity to work along with maybe the homestead that's there, maybe restoring or preserving the homestead and cemetery. It's an educational opportunity for students to tour that land and show them what the Woolseys saw when they settled in 1830.
 the habitat at least, of course the bison are gone and the elk are gone, but we can still look at that habitat and show them what it was like. It's also an excellent opportunity for research for university students to work in a tall grass prairie and oak savanna. Again, I don't want to overstate the quality of the remnants. They are degraded, but they have a lot of potential for restoration.
 So I just wanted to mention all those things. And if I have time, I'm not sure I've gone over time, but here's some pictures of it. This is the prairie remnant. I think that's Millsaps Mountain in the background. I think I was facing east when I took that picture. And there's the savanna remnant with some beautiful old growth trees.
 we found several i was there for about an hour with jeff hickle at jacobs and we found several species of native plants struggling to survive along the edges of the prairie along the fence row but they were they were making it and we know that that if we restore this it's just going to be amazing a lot of pollinators on these plants that were in flower and then we saw three native species of milkweed including swamp milkweed
 which is not known for mulzeum, which is also a rare plant. It's tracked as a species of conservation concern. And of course, a monarch had landed on the milkweed right before I took the picture, so that's perfect.
 So I just wanted to show you those pictures of what it is now and try to give you a picture of how rare and important it is of a habitat. And to also, Mayor, I would like to thank you personally because when you realized, you and Peter realized that you were working with such a unique habitat, you immediately said we have to do something about this. And so I want to thank you for bringing it to this point and bringing it to City Council for a vote.
 Thank you. Thanks. What questions do we have? I actually have one question for her. If it is all put in this conservation or there'd be like paths through it or something like that so people would be able to get out into it to see it, would that be damaging the,
 The prairie? There are paths in it now. There are main mode paths. And that's about the extent of a path that you would want to put through a prairie. You wouldn't want to put gravel down or bare soil. And that's acceptable. It's fine. It's a great opportunity for walking. And the more development that is around there, it's going to be a great opportunity for people to just walk across the street and walk in this prairie. So, yeah, that's definitely on the table to have walking paths. Yes.
 Soft surface. Thank you, Jennifer, very much. Okay, what public comment do we have? Good evening, Mayor Jordan, members of the council. My name is Marcin Nance. I'm the director of land protection and stewardship at the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust.
 The Northwest Arkansas Land Trust is excited to support the protection of this acreage near the Woolsey Wet Prairie. The Land Trust works with private landowners and municipalities such as Fayetteville to permanently protect open space and important natural and cultural sites around Northwest Arkansas. To date, the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust has permanently protected almost 4,000 acres in our area, and we've embarked on a campaign to protect another 5,000 by 2021.
 we are encouraged by the city of fable's commitment to protecting our natural resources our open spaces and scenic beauty while also giving citizens much needed access to our unique area of the natural state in what values our relationship with the city of fayetteville and together we have collaborated on successful conservation and recreation projects such as kessler mountain regional park and reserve
 is the hope of Northwest Arkansas Land Trust that through this new endeavor, we can again preserve a piece of our natural heritage and expand public access to an increasingly rare ecosystem.
 It's no secret that Woolsey Wetland and wet prairie has become a beacon for wildlife and wildlife enthusiasts from all over our area. It has been solidified as an important bird area in northwest Arkansas. It's beautiful, it's remarkable, but it's also engineered. What was once prairie is now an engineered wetland and much-needed water treatment plant.
 But what makes our region great is the mosaic of landscapes, wetlands, prairies, mountains, savannas, lakes, streams, and rivers. This diversity in ecosystems preserves and improves biodiversity in northwest Arkansas. Biodiversity that's being lost not just locally, but globally. And these varied systems provide valuable benefits for the people who call Northwest Arkansas home.
 According to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, prairies sequester more carbon through the roots of plants underground than forests of similar acreage. The sequestration of carbon fits with the city's sustainability initiatives. The site is habitat for pollinators, including the monarch butterfly, the preservation of which Mayor Jordan set as a priority by signing the mayor's monarch pledge.
 This area also has great potential as an educational site. Imagine 40 acres of prairie supporting monarchs, bees, other pollinators with native prairie grasses and flowers, capturing and sequestering carbon all right next to a renewable energy generation site.
 The Westside Prairie will not only be a mosaic of ecosystems, but it will become a mosaic of sustainability and a model from which generations of Arkansans can learn. And that's why we at the Land Trust support this effort and look forward to our continued partnership with the city of Bayville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening. I'm Bob Kalk, also a member of FNHA's board, but I'm not here tonight necessarily speaking. Jennifer has done an eloquent job of that.
 I just wanted to mention very briefly a couple of things. One is from the birding community point of view, some of the more interesting birds that have been seen out there actually have been seen in the Savannah area as opposed to the existing Woolsey wet prairie. That's a very, very important habitat for birding.
 Two examples that come to mind right away was in some of these trees that are over in the Savannah area. A couple of years ago had a great horned owl that nested over there and raised a family of three youngsters. It was quite exciting. And about the same time, we actually had a northern shrike come to town, which is very, very unusual for this part of the world. The other thing I wanted to mention that hasn't been mentioned yet is this area here.
 because of its unique habitat and the kinds of flora and fauna that are there, is already being used by the University of Arkansas as a research laboratory.
 There was a young lady that just recently got her master's degree studying birds in restored prairie areas. And Woolsey, Lake Fayetteville, Prairie Restoration, and Chesney up in Asylum Springs were her three research areas. And so this is very important, and I know that the herpetology people are over there already. And so there's a lot of research going on. And so this is a very, very important area. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi, I'm back. As I'm sure you figured out by now with my activism and volunteer capacities within the city of Fayetteville, I am among other things a naturalist and a conservationist.
 It will be no surprise then that I'm here to voice my support for this ordinance. There are multiple environmental reasons including saving precious vernal pools and virgin prairie habitat. Furthermore, there are economic reasons including a book into Centennial Park. The water from Millsaps Mountain flows down that way and parkland dedications are already planned that way for bike paths. It also has an ecotourism component with birders.
 There's actually bobwhites out there and you probably don't know this but when they did the first odd bond bird count The bobwhite was the most common bird they found 14 within like 30 minutes and the last odd bond bird count They didn't find any bobwhites as far as I know in this last one, but I have seen them. They are out there. Um
 And it also helps with our water management savings, which is a handy thing. So as Devin is so fondly of saying, this is a win-win-win. Everybody wins. It helps the bottom line, and it helps the environment, and it helps people. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Justin, do you have a question? No, I have a comment. There's been many times that I've wanted to scream over the years in these meetings, and that little girl didn't scream one time this entire meeting. Which I think needs to be very much mentioned and very well done by that family there. So thank you. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we approve the resolution.
 I second that motion.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Chester. And I'm absolutely in favor of this. I just want to say real quick, when I hear things like preservation and environmentally sensitive habitat and prairie and solar, a friend of mine lost his house in California recently. And you can debate what causes the fires and what makes them worse, but I think we have an obligation to do things that we think may prevent
 future issues like that and I think this is definitely one of them so my hats off to the mayor and the staff for for this sort of thought because I think it's very important so thank you thank you anybody else I want to thank everybody worked on this this is as you know land preservation is sort of one of my passions but uh
 This is just a win-win for everybody. I know that when we were looking at putting the solar panels out there, this was an area where they were going to go. And I know Terry Lane came in, Jennifer came in, and they told me that this was an area that had never been touched, never been plowed. And we had a chance here to preserve 44 acres forever, just like it's always been. And it was just, I couldn't pass that up.
 And I just thought, so this is, you know, I see, you know, we're looking at restoring the Woolsey Farm out there. And I see people come, kids coming, going through that farm and going on that, looking at that natural prairie. And, I mean, that's just, that just goes on and on and on. And that's something we can be very proud of tonight.
 I want to thank everybody that worked on this. This is another big deal that I think will be enjoyed for generations to come in this city. So having said that, Sean, would you please call the roll? Kennedy. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. Thank you, council, very much. Thank you all very much. Okay, number seven. Okay.
 resolution to adopt the 2019 annual budget and work program. Good evening, Mayor and Council. We had a very, I think, good working session Saturday where we discussed the budget in depth. Received your input.
 And I just want to make a couple of points. I don't know if any of you received a phone call, but there was an article in the newspaper that in essence said that we were raising salaries or increasing the personnel budget 34 percent in this particular budget.
 We had several phone calls asking why we would be doing something like that and I do want to correct the fact, I've been assured that that will be corrected, that we are not increasing 34%, we're increasing 5.9% in the overall budget for personnel. Those relate
 primarily the salary increases that were granted at the end of the first quarter of this year. But if we want to look at the overall budget, the overall budget is $168 million. This is a $7 million increase over the prior year. That's about 4.5%.
 The primary driver of that again, you know her personnel cost personnel costs are up three point six million dollars throughout Throughout the city if we want to talk about the general fund the general funds up about two and a half million dollars over Two million of that is driven by salary increases again granted at the end of the first quarter this year and
 I will point out that as we discussed, the general fund will show a deficit at this point in time, a deficit that I believe is manageable over time. But based on the discussion that we had at the meeting Saturday, I want to propose an amendment that the mayor has instructed me to do. And in essence, we're going to...
 Propose an amendment that we increase the general fund budget by $100,000 for a business recruitment specialist in the economic development department. Funding, again, is going to come from reserves. There will be some measurements put on this particular position.
 Also, based on the discussion that we had regarding the parking fund, we had a program that was titled Walton Arts Center Transfer to Walton Arts Center. We discussed that. We're going to change the name of that program to the Arts Funding Support Program. The destination of the funding last year, the consensus was we'll still go to the Arts Center. However, in the future.
 That money is going to be discussed for distribution throughout other programs. So that's the amendment that I have proposed at this point in time at the mayor's direction.
 I'll be happy to answer any questions again Saturday We discussed the budget in depth that I'll be happy to entertain any questions that we have at this point in time I would also like to encourage the public and the audience watching to view that Discussion. I think we covered everything in depth and I think it will provide some insight to the to the city budget for those viewers
 any questions for Paul a public comment do we have yeah bring back to the council I move that we amend to the proposed changes okay and that do I need to list those or I think we got it I mean do we you don't need to amend the resolution but
 you don't need to amend the resolution obviously because this is stopping the budget and i think the mayor has already now amended his budget to what you all requested on saturday so that would really be the budget in front of you right now okay well um then i move we pass the resolution to adopt the budget oh second okay
 The final comments we have, I want to thank you all for working with me on this budget. And I appreciate your input. It was very well received, and I thought it was a good, healthy discussion. But it was good. It really was good. Good give and take. So thank you all very much. With that, Sandra, any other final comments on it? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes. Lieutenant. Yes. Batch. Yes. Lieutenant. Yes. Lieutenant. Yes. Rice. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Indian. Yes. Thank you all.
 Okay, and the last item we have tonight is an ordinance to amend 166.04B3IV, be in lieu allocation of unified development code to increase the period of time from three years to five years for the city to expand parkland dedication fees. Okay.
 Whereas state law regulating impact fees requires that impact fees not expended within seven years must be refunded to the present owner of the property that was subject to the impact fee. And whereas Unified Development Code currently requires a city to expend the parkland fee within three calendar years or else it has to be refunded.
 and whereas the Parks and Recreation Department sometimes has difficulty accumulating and expending parkland fees equitably and efficiently within the current three-year period, and so requests that it be granted five years rather than three years to expend the parkland fees. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby repeal section 166.04 b3 l v fee in lieu allocation of the unified development code and an actual replacement section as follows quote subsection v fee in lieu allocation all parkland fees received under this subsection shall be deposited into an interest-bearing account
 This money together with its earned interest shall be expended within five calendar years of the last date of the calendar year in which it was received for the acquisition and or development of parkland that services the subdivision or development for which the contribution in lieu of dedication was made.
 If this money has not been expended within the allowed period, the unexpended money together with any of its remaining earned interest shall be refunded to the present owner of the property that was a subject of the new development and against which the parkland fee was assessed and collected.
 This was brought to you by myself and by Connie for parks. They came to me and said that they were having some difficulty sometimes being very efficient in spending the parkland fees that were received because of the relatively short time frame. So I suggested that we come to you and ask that we get a couple extra years, which is still well within the seven-year time limit of the impact fee statute.
 I note this is a different time period because this was done long before the impact fee statute. This was our first impact fee done 20, 30 years ago, and it has resulted in our wonderful park system. But I'll let Connie further explain why she wants or needs another two years. Okay. Okay.
 Connie Edmundson, Parks and Recreation Director. I do want to tell you all that tonight, when you walk outside, you're going to see lights of the Ozark. I know many of you were here last Friday, but it will be going until January 1 at midnight when we will turn the lights off. So it's a great show this year for you. So thank you for giving us the resources to be able to do that for our citizens. Thank you.
 The parkland dedication ordinance was created back in 1981, and it required residential developers to dedicate land or to pay a fee in lieu of land.
 For the past 36,000, 36,000, 36 years, it seems like 36,000, 36 years, this ordinance has served us well in that we have accumulated over 290 acres of park lands with it. And it has also funded over $7.3 million to help develop our park systems and to provide better parks and recreation for our citizens.
 Our city is divided into four park districts and the funds must be spent within the quadrant in which it is collected. And currently our ordinance states that it must be spent within three years of the last day of the calendar year in which it was received. Park staff is recommending that we extend the years from three to five.
 This is something that the state statute does allow us to do and they would allow us to do up to seven years. And I guess the bottom line is that three year time period presents some challenges for staff. One, in order to design, bid, and build the project, this is a very, a three year time period is a very short time period.
 And there are situations that we come in a certain park quadrant that there are not enough funds to do a significant project, so we have to kind of piecemeal or phase a project in. And the strict guideline also has forced us to...
 Well has delayed approved projects that we already have in our budget to be delayed a little bit because of lack of personnel and flexibility of the timeline of the parkland dedication that we have to have them completed and
 The extension of the five years would allow us to put it in the same years as our five-year capital improvement plan. So that would help us to do better planning on that. So in summary...
 Adding the two years to spend the money would provide staff with a solid planning tool to utilize our five-year capital improvement plan and to allow for better utilization of funds and overall planning of our park projects. Any questions that I may answer? What questions do we have for Connie on this? All right, what public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council.
 I should note that we rushed to get it to this meeting, even though we knew it was going to be a long meeting, because we needed to have this effective before the end of the year. So I would request, rather than putting emergency laws on it, you just suspend the rules so we can get to the third and final reading tonight so that, in fact, they're not faced with having to spend a bunch of money or they're not ready to spend before the end of the year. Okay. Adele? I move that we go to the second reading. John?
 Second the motion, Mayor. We have a motion to second to go to the second rating. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance amend section 166 oh 4b 3 LV fee and Lou allocation of the Unified Development Code to increase the period of time from three years to five years for the city to expand parkland dedication fees I move we go third and final reading
 I second that motion too. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance amends section 16604B3LV fee in lieu allocation of the Unified Development Code to increase the period of time from three years to five years for the city to expand parkland dedication fees.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Okay, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Timon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Mulder? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kimmon? Yes.
 Thank you all. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, we've got a couple of announcements. First of all, city offices will be closed on Thursday of this week for the Thanksgiving holiday as well as the Friday following Thanksgiving. That means all offices that the public can attend are closed. That means our city offices, our development services offices, our animal services, any
 Any place that you go that has city staff for the opening of that location. Our trash routes, I'm going to make a note for those folks who are used to us picking up trash on a holiday anyway. Thanksgiving and Christmas are the schedules where that changes. So there will be no residential trash routes run on Thursday, Thanksgiving Day. It will be delayed one day to Friday. So you can get rid of your carcass and all those other things who have trash on Thursday. Okay.
 Commercial routes will also be delayed and will resume on Friday. Our Marion Orton, our transfer station, and our compost site are closed to the public on those days. Additionally, I want to remind citizens about our senior giving tree. We are currently taking donations for our seniors. That information can be found on the city's website.
 website Community Resource Division is holding its 12th annual senior giving training there's a list on the site of possible gift ideas if you're looking to donate we're accepting gift and cash donations through December the 7th for that program Thank You mayor Donna's already mentioned it thirst will be Thanksgiving I was doing a little research on the history of Thanksgiving
 When the Pilgrims landed at Plymouth, they went through a very severe winter, and over half the people died in that colony. What I didn't know was the captain of the Mayflower ship was overwintering in the harbor. They didn't want to go across the North Atlantic during the winter months, very treacherous times. He offered the Pilgrims that were remaining to return to England with him, and to a person they all refused to.
 to stay and work on what we call the United States of America. That's the fortitude of the people whose footsteps we follow through. So I want us to remember this Thanksgiving. We'll eat a lot of turkey and we'll watch a lot of football, but it really is about giving thanks to the God who's in heaven for the great blessings he's given to us. It is the biggest economic miracle in the history of the world, what we call the United States.
 I put one I want to say thank you. Yes. Well, that's very well said, John. I've got something that I wanted to mention too. A friend of mine is the manager for the area for the waiter app. If you don't know what the waiter app is, it's a food delivery service basically. And this is not an advertisement, but I wanted to mention that they're delivering hot meals for their share Thanksgiving.
 program that they have every year and they're trying to feed around 200 people through in-app donations and the donations have already stopped for this particular period but he did tell me that if anyone knows of a family that is in need of a meal
 they will certainly take care of that so you can let me know you can email call just get a hold of me if you know anybody that might be struggling during the thanksgiving holiday a family that needs a meal and the waiter folks said they would take care of it so i wanted to mention that as we go into thanksgiving okay anybody else i would like to say this to the council i want to thank you all for your respect and your courtesy for one another and um
 I don't think I really appreciate you all and I know we have some contentious things here, but you're always respectful to one another and respectful of the people that come here and speak and I personally want to thank you for that. I am very proud of this council.
 and who they are, who you are, and what you stand for, and the respect. And we've had some contentious issues in here, but you all show a great deal of professionalism, and I want to thank you as the mayor of this city and have a happy Thanksgiving. We're adjourned.