I would like to call the order of the City Council meeting for November 21st. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Here. Bennett? Here. Latour? Present. Here. Marsh? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Do you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Amen.
 Don, did you have something? Yes, Mayor. Council Member Tennant just messaged me to let the council know that he is attempting to arrive at the meeting, but there's an accident on I-49, and he is currently in a standstill. He'll be here as soon as possible. Okay. All right. The first order of business we have tonight under agenda additions, we need to add the Ward 4 Position 2 Council Member Replacement item to the agenda mark.
 i move that we add to our agenda the replacement of the ward for position vacancy yes sir second we have a motion in a second to add the ward for position to council member replacement to the agenda in discussion on that yeah i would like to put it the last item after we finished all of our business tonight
 Mr. Mayor, I would say that this has to be on our agenda according to the state law. All righty then. I guess we won't have any discussion on that. Sandra, would you please call the roll? He was the mover and the seconder because I was busy adding in. Mark and Sarah is the seconder. Let me get the other one in there. Okay. Thank you, Sarah. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Patch? Latour? Yes. Price?
 yes yes and mayor Jordan you'd have to vote yes okay that passes okay I would like to put this at the end of the council meeting except all there everyone all right first order business we have tonight is the consent number one approval of November 7 2017 City Council meeting minutes
 Number two, a resolution to approve a contract with Paymentus Corporation in the amount of $5,000, expanding the scope of services to add a field-splitting customer pass due balances in the online utility billing system. Number three, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 50% matching grant award from the 2017 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program in the amount of $6,070 for the replacement of body armor vests,
 for federal police officers and to approve a budget adjustment. Number four, resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $81,516 recognizing revenue associated with the federal and state law enforcement forfeitures and insurance proceeds from a wrecked vehicle. Number five, a resolution to approve federal police department policies on grooming and uniform requirements and body-worn cameras.
 Number six the resolution toward bid number 17-65 and to authorize a contract with Mab Holtz Environmental Services LLC in the amount of $257,802 for asbestos abatement services at the Old City Hospital as part of the federal public library expansion project and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $40,000.
 And number seven, a resolution to approve a renewal of the contract with Community Access Television Incorporated, DBA, your media in the amount of $161,580 for the provision of public access television services and the operation of the public access television channel through 2018 contingent on approval of the 2018 annual city budget and work program. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read.
 Sarah? So moved. John? Seconded by the Mayor. We have a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Lutcher? Yes. Ray? Yes. Mar? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. On to unfinished business. Number one.
 In order to enact a 110.03 small cell facilities and networks into chapter 110 telecommunication franchise bill posting in small cell facilities and networks, that was, let's see, it was tables. So it comes off the table. Kit, do you need to read that? No, if it was automatically tabled this meeting, it's already off. And what reading are we on? It was left on the third reading.
 So it's already been read three times. It does not need to be read again. Okay like the evening mayor counsel You should have a copy this week. I promise of a memo I sent this morning along with a copy of the memo I sent last Tuesday and the administration's final recommendation of Exhibit a which contains six changes from what you adopted two weeks ago I think
 The only significant change between what you saw last Tuesday and tonight is the removal of the requirement for a non-franchise holder to provide four pairs of dark fiber for public purpose.
 I think we're in somewhat questionable legal territory by requiring that of some providers and not others. So I think at this time, I think we put that aside, study it for you know potential changes in the future and maybe down the road we find a way to reinsert this provision. Okay. What questions do we have for Blake? Anything? John?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Blake, this week I had a conversation with representatives from the industry, and as we're both attorneys, we understand that we look for reasonable causes of action, reasonable efforts on both parts, and I understand in conversations with the city, they were told that our administrator will be reasonable in his efforts.
 Well, if the administrator is reasonable in his efforts, when we say that they have to put forth all effort to achieve stealth or camouflage or whatever we want to call it, it seems like all is very exhaustive. Probably you mean reasonable or commercially reasonable practices. Don't you think?
 Probably. Let me comment on that just a bit. As you're aware, John, since you have been an attorney, at least in California, there is presumption of reasonableness in every contract. That's read into it by the courts. And so that's why you don't see contracts that are full of reasonableness within them, which normally you might.
 And so I think that probably we don't need to insert that now if you are concerned about all, you know, and, you know, maybe you could put insert it right there in one place. But normally contracts have a presumption of reasonableness throughout the contract. And that's the way it would be interpreted by the courts. I was just trying to head off a court challenge, which is we all know is expensive and time consuming and
 uses and spends our citizens' resources that can be spent in other areas to be more productive for our citizens. So I was just trying to tighten up the language to, you know, maybe just put one paragraph in the very beginning of it says, all efforts shall be reasonable on both sides, or something like that. And that is a presumption, I agree, but why presume it, why not state it overtly? And avoid the controversy.
 That would be my comment on it. But surely, I mean, would you agree with me we mean when we say all effort, we mean all reasonable effort? Sure. And I do think the administrator would be reasonable in applying this ordinance. And if a provider thought that it was unreasonable, then that provider has the ability to appeal to this body here. Sure. And you can be as reasonable or, I suppose, unreasonable as you want. Okay.
 All right, well, if we're very unreasonable, I'm sure the next body hearing would have a judge presiding. Correct. Et cetera. So we're just trying to avoid those legal entanglements and those legal controversies. You're now on record saying that you do mean by all effort, you mean all reasonable effort. Of course, yes. From the city attorney's office, we expect staff to apply the city code reasonably to all citizens and all businesses who do business in the city of Fayetteville. That's...
 Thank you. All right. Any other questions for Blake on this? All right. It takes us to public comment. Now, everybody gets one turn at the microphone on this. We're talking about small cell facilities. One turn at the microphone. There's a five-minute time limit. Keep your comments addressed to me. Don't engage anybody on the council or out in the public. And stay on topic.
 Who would like to comment on this tonight? Good evening, Mayor. John Scott, resident of Ward 3. I was here last meeting, and we've certainly appreciated all the work that the council has done. We appreciated taking the extra two weeks to allow the providers to make some technical type comments.
 and we certainly are come here respectful for the city's concerns for aesthetics and for the great community that we have here. To that end, this has been a great example of collaboration and working with the city and the citizens. To that end, I made my children come tonight for a civics lesson, so I have both my kids here. They've not been 20 years of practicing law. They've never seen me do anything, so they're somewhere, I think. But to that end...
 We do. We think that we understand and we appreciate the assurances that things will be done in a reasonable manner. I think as Council Member Latour pointed out, many statutes impart a certain standard of care, reasonable care. Some have strict liability where there's no standard. It doesn't matter if you're reasonable or not. You violate the speeding laws, you're guilty. We're not talking about penal statutes here, though. I understand, but there are standards. At this point, we love all the amendments that have been proposed.
 We like the ordinances written and the last issue of fairness is just that one word reasonable that we respectfully with our hat in hand ask For predictability and clarity to the providers is to insert it three places It was in there in our earlier draft the city the staff said we don't recommend it but we come to one last time and we would ask if one of the council members and inclined to make this one final amendment and the the four places it appears is in section and
 E1 little a second line where it says every effort shall be made. Well, that certainly is the only thing the planning commission has to do is be reasonable in determining did you make every effort. That's a different standard than saying I'll be reasonable and say did you make every reasonable effort. So to that end, we just ask that the word every reasonable effort be inserted there. E1B is the next place that we had suggested it.
 And in that case, it says, facilities which are side mounted on buildings shall be reasonably camouflaged. We ask for that in the second line of E1B. And finally, in F4, twice in that paragraph, we respectfully
 requested to be added again. Second line says designed to be camouflaged to the greatest extent possible. Well you know that the greatest extent possible could be a hundred thousand, two hundred thousand dollars. We say to the greatest extent reasonably possible. And one more time down at the bottom of that paragraph where it says camouflaged to the greatest extent possible. We say to the greatest extent reasonably possible. So those are the four places we just asked for that
 an amendment that would make that clarification. I think the potential ambiguity can be shown when you look back to E1A, where if it's not in there, if you look down lower below, it says, facilities can be mounted on a roof, step back to the front to the extent technically feasible. So perhaps we could use the word technically feasible instead of reasonable.
 I know this, anyone listening, this sounds like law minutiae, but to us it could be important. And with that idea that certain things have to be technically feasible, we think that the standard for clarification would be those four places. We add that one word, four places, and we appreciate your time. We do appreciate all the efforts, and we're confident that the ordinance is much better after the time that everybody has spent and the council members have spent listening to the concerns.
 Thank you. All right. Thank you. Mr. Scott, just a second. Sure. Mayor? Yeah. Could you list for us those code sections again? They're already saying E1A, E1B. What were the last two? F4. F4. Why is it an F4? I think it's the second line of F4 in the fourth section.
 And then the other one is in F4 down on my page. It's on page number five. It would be the third line from the bottom of page five. I'm not sure I'm looking at exactly the same pagination. But it would say camouflaging. Well, it's right before that. It says the zoning and development administrator may approve the installation of a standard utility pole in areas where such installation will not degrade the streetscape, but any facilities shall be camouflaged to the greatest extent reasonably possible.
 And so those are the four places that we think that clarification, I don't think it substantively changes the intent of the act at all. And after this effort and after we know the desires of the city, these providers are going to come with respect for the aesthetics of the city. I don't think you're going to find them submitting applications that turn anything on its head.
 But we think that that will give their planning people more comfort on certain areas to say we've done everything reasonably possible here and can represent that to the city. Thank you, Mr. Scott. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Scott or Ms. Council? All right. Thank you, Mr. Scott. All right. Who else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay.
 Mayor, obviously Blake has been working very hard on this and I think he's done a very good job. I think I will agree with Mr. Scott that that is no substantive changes that he has suggested. I think that's the way it has to be interpreted anyway.
 So I really, however you all want to do it, but I don't think our office has any objections to adding a couple reasonablies in there because that is the way it's going to be interpreted and we certainly require that of all of our code sections that they be reasonably interpreted and if that makes the industry
 more relaxed and happy and doesn't affect our ordinance, and I don't think it does, then I certainly don't think that there would be any objection that my office would have into placing those reasonably as requested. Mr. Mayor, I just urge my colleagues that, just like Mr. Williams has explained, there's no substantive change. And if it helps the industry sleep better at night,
 Businesses need predictability. They need to make decisions on future funding and future spending based on a predictable future. And when we leave things vaguely defined, it makes them uneasy and they can't sleep at night, okay? So we want AT&T to sleep well at night. Well, I'd like to sleep well at night. Would you like to make that motion to amend? I'll be glad to. All right. Adela. I will second that motion. All right. We have a vote.
 Motion and a second to amend two. Do you have the amendment? You all should have the Exhibit A, which is attached to that memo, so it would be that with the additional reasonables or reasonably from Council Member Latour. Okay. Good, John? Good. Stella, good? Yes. All right. I think that does. Everybody's good then. All right. Is there any comments on the amendment public opinion?
 public comments on the amendment okay bring back to the council let's vote on the amendment any final comments on that in the council all right so I'm just please go yes yes yes yes yes okay now we look at the ordinance as a whole and we're ready to vote on that any comments from the council
 on the ordinance as a whole. I want to thank the staff's work on this and the providers' work on this. Everybody working together. It took us a little while to trash this out, but at the end of the day, it's a pretty good-looking ordinance, so I'm very pleased with it. I want to thank everybody for their work. All right? And having said that, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Janet? Yes.
 munch mature yes gray marsh yes okay thank you all ordinance did pass all right thank you number two an ordinance to approve the application of sami amar hadaji on behalf of the vip club for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of devil at 326 northwest avenue number
 Number six, I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Before we do that, Mayor, I handed out to you an amended ordinance that the police chief worked out with the attorney representing Mr. Haddaji, Mr. Morton.
 And Mr. Morton has seen this. As you can see, the title is the same, but there are some changes in the whereas clauses. And most importantly, there's a new section two that places some conditions upon the approval. Do you believe that?
 You want to read the ordinance kit? Yeah, why don't I go ahead and just read the ordinance. Just for clarification. Okay, the proposed ordinance that has been approved and agreed to both by the chief and by Ken Morton and Mr. Haddaji says, In order to approve the application of Sami Hamar Haddaji on behalf of the VIP Club for Bruin to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 326 Northwest Avenue number 6,
 whereas Act 111.12 of 2017, which amended the permitting procedure set forth in Arkansas Code Annotated 3-9-222 for private clubs in the state of Arkansas, requires the city council to approve by ordinance an application for a permit to operate as a private club before the applicant can submit the application to the state alcoholic beverage control division.
 And whereas the applicant has voluntarily offered to close his VIP club no later than 1.30 a.m. to help avoid congestion caused by the next door bars all closing at 2 a.m. with patrons overflowing the narrow sidewalk near his location. And whereas the applicant has also volunteered to ensure that all of his employees will promptly attend and complete the Fayetteville Police Department's free fraudulent underage ID class.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves the application of Sami Hamar Haddaji on behalf of VIP Club, a copy of which is attached to the agenda request form for a permit to operate as a private club in the City of Fayetteville at 326 Northwest Avenue, Number 6, under the conditions set forth in Section 2.
 Section 2 says that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby accepts Sami Ammar Haddaji's voluntary offers to close his VIP club every day by 1.30 a.m. and to require his employees to promptly take and complete the Fayetteville Police Department's free fraudulent underage ID class as conditions for the City Council's approval of Mr. Haddaji's applications.
 And I do see Mr. Morton here, so I'd probably ask him to come forward and make sure that you do agree with what I've just read. Ladies and gentlemen of the council, Mr. Mayor, we've worked this out. My client was always intending to close at 1.30, and this is what we've agreed upon with the chief of police and the city attorney, and we've requested the council approve this ordinance. Okay. Any questions? Thank you. Chief?
 We met with the applicant and his attorney last Thursday. They were very receptive to anything we asked them about. Some of the things were not in this ordinance. We didn't think they were important enough to actually add to the ordinance. But with these two additions of the 130 closing and the agreement to attend our training, the police department has no objections to this ordinance now. Okay.
 So the procedure would be to add the amendments to the first thing would be yes to amend the previous ordinance to the one I just read All right There needs to be a motion Yes, I move that we add these and then these amendments to the previous motion, okay mark I
 I second that. All right. We have a motion to second to add the amendments to the previous ordinance. Right? Well, amend it to the one that obviously is in front of you. I took some stuff out too. So amend it to this version I just read. All right. To the new version. Do we have any public comment on this?
 Okay, bring it back to the council. Sarah, I believe you're... Yes. Do we require other bar operators and entertainment venue operators to take the same ID class? I don't know. And what was the impetus for including this provision in the ordinance? I think this is the first time we've ever...
 As for that requirement, most all bars and entertainment district and various other places in town do attend the training, but there's no requirement for them to. Obviously, as you've heard before, this is a new state law, this is all kind of new. I think this is only the second one of these that's been brought forward, so kind of a learning curve on the whole process. And we're working on getting the more formal process as these move forward in the future.
 Okay, because I don't recall us having this requirement in the last private club that we approved recently. That's correct. It was not in the last one that was approved. Thank you. But it seems like a good idea, and I would imagine you might be seeing that provision and all the rest of the ordinances that come through. Okay, Dell. All right. Any discussion on the amended ordinance, new amended ordinance? Am I good? No, not good. Sarah? Okay. All right. Sonnets, please call the roll.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay. All right, now we have the new ordinance. Do we go to the second reading or yes? I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Nella? I move we go to the second reading. Mark? I second that. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sundridge, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 yes yes yes yes yes in order to approve the application of sami hamar hadaji on behalf of the vip club for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of fayetteville at 326 northwest avenue number six another motion adela
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Mark? I will second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Latour? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Mayor Jordan? Yes. An ordinance approved the application of Sami Hamar Haddaji on behalf of the VIP Club for a permit to operate as a private club in the city of Fayetteville at 326 Northwest Avenue number 6. Okay.
 Any final comments from the council? All right. I want to thank everybody's work on this and working this out. Adagi and Ken and Chief appreciate that very much. All right. If there's no other final comments, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes.
 Under new business, we have a resolution to terminate the joint lease agreement between the City of Pebble and the Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas for the city's use of 27.5 acres on Lewis Avenue and the University's use of 10.02 acres on Razorback Road contingent upon approval by the Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas. Who has that on them? Mayor, I have that. All right, Don. Mayor?
 First, I want to let the council know that the Town and County Advisory Committee discussed this item at their meeting yesterday. There were 11 members present and there was a recommendation made by the committee.
 for the city to not terminate its lease early and to allow interested stakeholders such as the University of Arkansas Fayetteville, Agri, city, surrounding neighborhoods, or any other interested citizen who might want to talk about Lewis
 feels giving them a longer time period as opposed to the city just releasing the lease when that recommendation from the committee was discussed with the mayor and his briefing this morning the mayor has directed our staff to request that this item be tabled indefinitely and just allow the lease to run to its expiration date of June 30th 2018
 Any comments or questions? Mark, you're... I'd like to move that we table this indefinitely. Okay. Sarah? Second that motion. All right. All right. We have a motion and a second to table. Is there any discussion on that? Now, I know there's been a lot of public comment on this. I can assure you I've gotten a few emails on this. I hear the chuckling out there. But...
 But we try to work things out, but I want everybody to understand something and just to give you just a little bit of history about that piece of property. When I first came on the council, we were talking about that lease being up about 2018 and I was on started on the council in 2001. If I remember correctly, we were discussing that somewhat then we were talking about a new regional park because the university wanted the property back. I remember correctly. So, um.
 In the course of time, the University of St. Louis noticed that they was not going to renew our lease. Is that correct, staff? Yes, Mayor. Okay, so we proceeded to build the regional park. Now, I certainly am very supportive of preserving all the green space I can in this city. I think my record as a mayor would...
 would attest to that. But there's also so much money that I have to work with. And we built a new regional park to move the soccer fields out there. And now this piece of property is available. Right now, I don't see the finances to where we can buy another piece of property. But the whole point of this is just to give you a little history of that piece of property. I certainly want to see green space preserved.
 But also, this particular item tonight is not about whether we buy a piece of property or not. It's whether the lease is terminated tonight early. All we're going to do tonight by tabling this, we'll allow this to go until I think it's June of 2018, if I remember correctly. That is correct, Mayor. And so, then we'll see what occurs. All right? Any other discussion on that, Council? Yes. John. Thank you.
 This would be for you, Mayor, or for Don, your Chief of Staff. How much does this lease cost us per year? Is there any cost? There's no cost for the actual lease period. Obviously, the cost associated with the property is maintaining the property. Maintain. Okay. Thank you. All right.
 I will take some public comment on this, but I don't really want to get into buying the property now. This is simply that we're going to not terminate the lease early, okay? I know some of y'all are very passionate about this, but if we don't terminate the lease, then it'll go on until next June. And then you can be passionate again, or now. All right, anybody have any comments? Yes.
 Good evening, Mayor and the Council. I'm Matthew Ramsey. I've been the longest serving at-large member on the Town and Gown Committee. I'm actually the one who fielded this motion and got it passed. I just feel like the six months additional leeway time will give the concerned stakeholders...
 more time to cultivate relationships and talk about potential solutions that would be agreeable to all parties. Because you have to keep in mind that it's not the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville that is controlling this land. It's the Division of Agriculture. So I think we all have to understand that those people may be a little bit disconnected with the city of Fayetteville and what the interests are of the community. So that's what we were trying to advocate for yesterday was...
 to give everybody that has a place or a stake hold in this conversation an opportunity to talk to the division, talk to the school boards, talk to the university, anybody that's kind of interested in preserving this as a potential green space or some combination thereof of a green space slash graduate student housing, something that is going to move the community forward. As I look at the city plan 230.
 Number one, that we will make appropriate infill and rate of vitalization of our highest priorities. Number two, we will discourage urban sprawl. Number one, two, three, four, assemble an enduring green network, attainable housing. I think all those could be applicable to this situation if we find the right solutions. So I think six months in time could help if there's enough consensus to help us find that solution. Thank you.
 mayor council my name is will dockery i kind of started this movement and when we heard that the university board of trustees and the arkansas division of agriculture planned to sell that i know it kind of came as a shock to them and as a shock to you originally they had told you
 I even knew it as a citizen five years ago that they were planning on repossessing the land and we were disappointed with that but we understood that but now since within the past 40 days that they have Kind of changed their mind with what they want to do with that. We really appreciate you motioning to table this indefinitely so that we can hopefully work something out and we just ask you council members that you help us because I
 This has been definitely a baptism by fire of politics and local things going on, and
 I've done things like this with other nonprofits, not on this scale, but I've worked with nonprofits before in the D.C. metro area. And so I would like to, if I could get your help to do these things, to save this or to work out a solution, that would be greatly appreciated. And I feel like there are a lot of people in this audience who believe that same thing. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Will.
 Hello Mr. Mayor, Council. I've tweaked my statement since this has been tabled, but I'm going to go ahead and read it because I'm a little nervous and I did prepare something. My name is Dana Bassey and I currently live at 1649 North Timber Ridge Court, which is in Ward 4. I grew up in and will soon be moving back to 1525 Heffley Street.
 which is in Ward 2 and adjacent to this Lewis property. It's been my family home for over 60 years, and Heffley Street is where I intend to live for many years to come. What happens in Fayetteville is important to me, and what happens in this neighborhood is extremely important to me, and it will impact me and many other citizens and visitors directly. And I'm here to speak for allowing the lease on the Lewis property
 which the city has with the university system to continue to its original end date of June 30th, 2018. So I support tabling this item. Thank you. I understand after attending the Town and Gown Advisory Committee meeting yesterday that the university and its board of trustees have already decided that they want to sell this property.
 I also understand that the city with the fabulous development of the Kessler Regional Park feels that the open space at Lewis is now an added expense and therefore something the city should no longer care for. But many citizens, neighbors, students and visitors do care about this open space and the narrow strip of woods between Heffley Street and Mount Comfort.
 And we need as much time as possible to express our desires for this land. And I realize today's meeting agenda item is not about hearing those desires. But I do want to let you know that there is quite a movement to keep this area open for citizens and visitors to use. This space has always been a huge part of that neighborhood's identity and integrity.
 I don't need to remind you of the importance of available open green space. I also hope I don't need to remind you that once it's gone, it's gone. Thank you for what time you have allowed for us to work through this with all interested parties. Green space is in the city is important now and will be in the future.
 We only want a chance to preserve the integrity of this Fayetteville jewel. Thank you for listening to me and others on this issue because it's very important. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Hi. Good evening. My name is Ron Keoldy. I live on 1535 West Heffley Street. I've lived there for about 10 or 11 years. Thank you for listening to me. I'm not knowledgeable enough to know what should be there or if anything should be
 I do like the park and I mean I understand things change but I will say that I do think the neighborhood deserves whatever goes in there if something goes in there, something of quality. And I feel like the neighborhood has actually been neglected. The street of Lewis is actually falling apart. There are no sidewalks on Lewis. You can't walk from
 Mount Comfort to Weddington. You can't do that without getting on the road you did Did add sidewalks on Mount Comfort, but they end before they get to Garland. So you have to walk on the street There's no way to get the harps the trail access is not good on Garland the median strip where you put the plantings the new strip is kind of subpar compared to the rest of what's happening in Fayetteville and
 Honestly, so I'm just saying I just want to I know it's tabled but I just The people do care about that place and it's a kind of a mixed-use area. Of course. I mean there are a lot of students in there so moving forward after June Just please keep in mind that whatever you do If you do something that we would like to be of quality and good for the neighborhood. So thank you. Thank you. I
 Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and second to table this indefinitely until June, or at least June the 18th. Yes, Mayor, this item will actually fall off of the agenda at the end of the calendar year, and then the lease will just run for its period. Right. All right. Everybody good? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. All right, thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to amend Article 9 Telecommunications Board and Chapter 33 Department's Board's commissions and authorities of the city code to reduce the frequency of meetings from monthly to bimonthly. Kip? Yes.
 Whereas the Telecommunications Board and city staff agree that meeting at least once every two months rather than every month would allow the Telecommunications topics of discussions to be developed more fully and allow for better inclusion in cities Information technology department which will enhance the board's role as advisor to the City Council now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1 of the
 that the city council the city of favela are hereby repeal subsection a of section 33.2209 procedures in article 9 telecommunications board and an actual replacement section 33.209a as follows quote the telecommunications board shall meet at least once every other month and may meet more frequently if necessary to carry out its duties four members shall constitute a quorum
 Okay. Good evening. Doug Bankston, director of media services and the staff liaison to the telecommunications board. In October, the board met, discussed, and then voted on this request to come forward to you to change the frequency of their meeting to go from the required monthly meeting frequency to at least bimonthly and then to allow for any special meetings that may need to occur.
 The Telecommunications Board believes that this would allow for more fulfilling meetings to occur and to allow for items that are a little longer ranging or longer to develop to be able to be brought before the board and be discussed in a more fulfilling way and also would allow some of the Information Technology Department's telecommunications initiatives to also come before the Telecommunications Board.
 Originally the Telecommunications Board's responsibility was cable franchising and since the state has taken that, taken over control of that, the number of items that the Telecommunications Board deals with has dwindled. So this is the Telecommunications Board's response to continuing to have meetings but more fulfilling meetings. Okay, what questions do we have for Doug on this? Anything? Okay. Any public comment on this?
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Mark. I move we move forward on this. I don't have it in front of me. Second reading. The second reading. Move to spend rules and go to the second reading. Okay, I have it now. All right. Thank you. I wasn't there yet. Okay. Sarah. I'll second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. McKeer. Yes. McBride.
 Yes. Yes. And Mayor Jordan? Yes. And Orders to amend Article 9, Telecommunications Board and Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions and Authorities of the City Code to reduce the frequency of meetings from monthly to bimonthly. Mark? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes yes and your nissan in article 9 till you can't telecommunications board in chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the city code to reduce the frequency of meetings from monthly to bi-monthly all right any final comments several topics all right
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number three, an order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17S5950 for approximately 1.83 acres located at 4847 West Weddington Drive from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre.
 and NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 years per acre, for 1.27 acres, and NC Neighborhood Conservation for 0.56 acres. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, exhibit A, and the legal description, exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo
 From RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, and NC neighborhood conservation. For 1.27 acres to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. And for 1.56 acres to NC neighborhood conservation. Section 2, the City Council, City of Fayetteville, are hereby amends official zoning map to City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above. Okay, Andrew.
 This property is on the south side of Weddington Drive in between 46th and Broyles Avenue.
 It is a part of an overall 30-acre tract of land that was originally a part of a PZD that never happened. The property has been rezoned within recent years as it was acquired by a bank and there are applicants requesting to rezone two pockets of land within the overall site to kind of square up a proposed development site. The proposal is for RSF 18 and NC neighborhood conservation. These are both single-family zoning districts that are form-based.
 and we feel like this is in line with the neighborhood areas and also with our city plan 2030 where it talks about traditional town form and we feel like both of these districts would accommodate that. This is a part of the Weddington neighborhood plan, which went through to the West Broyles Avenue.
 You can see here, here's an exhibit showing the Weddington neighborhood plane, which didn't show that this area had potential for higher density and intensity, which is why the council rezoned it a few years ago. This proposal to rezone these two pockets to align with the developer's proposal matches up, I think, with the plan in general consistency. We are recommending approval of the rezoning. The Planning Commission also recommended approval of it. If you have any questions, please let me know. Thanks. Well, what questions do we have for Andrew on this?
 That's your neck of the woods, isn't it, John? Yeah. You hadn't heard anything? I hadn't heard anything and it seems very reasonable to me to go ahead and rezone these pockets. Okay. Is there any public comment on this? Sure. My name is Ferdy Forey with Civil Design Engineers. I'm the engineer working on this right now. And we've actually moved a little bit further with the design.
 and establish a new, a little bit better layout that would require two more areas to be rezoned neighborhood conservation. And so I guess I'm wondering if it's possible to add those to this request. I don't think so. No. We did have to go back to planning. Yeah, I think if they're adding additional land, Mayor, we would need to notify the neighbors adjacent to those areas. Right.
 Can we do that and then come back to city council and basically table it tonight? Yeah, but we can't do it tonight. Can we table it tonight then and then come back after we put out the notification? Yeah. If we did it today. You can go ahead and pass what you have here before us tonight and come back with the other one later if that's what you're asking. Can I do that? Just add to it? Yeah, sure. Yeah. Okay.
 That was great. Okay. I may want to be clear for the applicant. You can't add to this. So either you would approve tonight and then bring your additional property in as a second approval, or you would need to go back to the very beginning with re-notification, planning commission for all of it together. But you're saying you want to go ahead and pass this tonight and then bring the others later. No, what I'm saying is I want to –
 add to this one not tonight but in the future and then vote on the whole thing oh okay well then we need to table this or something table this it will be my notification I think what we should do is probably refer it back to the planning commission that is one option that the city council has and then you can complete your notification and then they can they'll have to review it and again speak on it and then it'll come back so we just need a motion referred back to the planning commission right
 I would like to be able to take because we're trying to get a preliminary plan in we can't do that until we have So you want to table? I would like you to table it and then I'll do my notifications and I'll be back on it Mayor
 Yes. The staff does not support that. And the reason why we wouldn't support it is we're changing conditions, pieces of property that have been publicly notified, not just the public notification, but we would not be receiving the planning commission's review and advice of that. It would be coming piecemeal to you, partly at the planning commission with a recommendation, the other part coming directly to the council through a tabled item. So from our perspective, it either needs to go directly to the council or it needs to
 back to planning and come as one item collected as a total package or approve the ones that are before you tonight and the additional ones come when they're ready. Otherwise, it feels like we're baiting and switching the public in terms of what was before them. Okay. So what you want to do? Let's just vote on this one tonight and then I'll just add to it. All righty then. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any public comment on this? It's been one of those evenings, hasn't it?
 All right, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. John? I second that motion, Mayor. Okie dokie. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? opinion? Yes. Eddie? Yes. O'Chara? Yes. Ryan? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, and ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5950 for approximately 1.83 acres located at 4847 West Weddington Drive from RSF 4 residential single-family 4 units per acre and NC neighborhood conservation to RSF 18 residential single-family 18 units per acre for 1.27 acres and to NC neighborhood conservation for .56 acres. Okay, John I
 I move that Senator Rhodes does third reading. Second. Second. We have a motion to second the governor's third and final reading. Senator please call the roll. Higgins. Yes. Eddy. Yes. McHarris. Yes. Marsh. Yes. In order to rezone that property ascribed in the rezoning petition RZN 17-5950
 for approximately 1.83 acres located at 4847 west weddington drive from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre and nc neighborhood conservation to rsf 18 residential single family 18 units per acre for 1.27 acres and to neighborhood conservation 4.56 acres okay any final comments from the council on this
 Okay. Son, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. McHugh? Yes. McRae? Yes. Yes. Okay, number four. Nordland's approved vacation 17-5960 for property located east of Barton Avenue and north of Huntsville Road to vacate a portion of a utility easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that about 2,178 square feet of the following described utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates about 2,178 square feet of utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2. That a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached to the Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 And section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following condition, that any costs associated with the relocation of or damage to utilities shall be at the owner developer's expense. OK. Andrew. This property is on the south side of Mount Sequoia. It has access to Walker Road and Barton Street, which are both narrow two-lane streets. The applicant is proposing to vacate an existing utility easement, as you can see on the drawing there, to facilitate future development of the property.
 There are no utilities in these easements, and all the utility companies have recommended approval, as well as the Planning Commission and staff. If you have questions, please let me know. What questions do we have for Andrew on this? You all heard anything? OK. All right. Any public comment on this? OK.
 right back to the council which is the council dylan i move we suspend the rose go to the second reading sarah second we have a motion second to go to the second reading son would you please tell the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Orders to approve the AC 17-59 60 for property located east of Barton Avenue and north of Huntsville Road to vacate a portion of a utility Sir, I mean we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading I second that motion. We have the motion is second to go to the third and final reading So under which please cover up Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes Yes
 In order to approve the AC 17-59 60 for property located east of Barton Avenue and north of Huntsville Road to vacate a portion of the utility easement Yes, yes, yes, yes Thank you all number five
 In ordinance to approve Vacation 17-5963, property located at Rock Street between West Avenue and School Street to vacate a portion of the Rock Street right-of-way. Kip? Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following ascribed Rock Street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes.
 Now, the report be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of the Rock Street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions, Number 1,
 Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Number two, a utility easement shall be retained with a width of 20 feet in association with the existing AEP SWEPCO facilities outlined above. Number three, the utility easement shall be dedicated with a width of 10 feet prior to the relocation of existing gas mains which will connect School and West Avenues.
 Section 4 condition number 4 a utility easement Retained with the width of 20 feet in association with the existing 6-inch sanitary sewer and 10-inch water and 12-inch water lines number 5 utility easement shall be dedicated for the existing fire hydrants and water lines that serve them and 6 future site design shall incorporate the minimum right-of-way for a two-way alley through the property between school and West Avenue's Andrew
 This property consists of Rock Street, which is just south of the library, in between School and West Avenues. You can see here on the aerial photo, this provides access into the south part of the library. The library is proposing to vacate this section of Rock Street to allow for them to expand the library to the south. The Rock Street would bisect the proposed site where they're proposing to expand the library.
 the main issues on this vacation of street has been discussion about connectivity between school and west if rock street is closed how would you get across these blocks of land and this was discussed at the planning commission meeting and the applicant brought this before the planning commission as a concept plat just discussed at one time then brought it back forward the planning commission ended up recommending unanimously to vacate the street all the utility companies recommend approval
 the planning commission did add a condition that an alley be constructed in between school and west avenue to provide connectivity and this is the approximate location of where that would be as written in the ordinance that the city attorney read to you and staff evaluated the condition uh
 And we do have concerns. We do recommend connectivity for pedestrians and cyclists through the area. We are concerned that if an alley was constructed through this area because of the steep grades along West Avenue, there would not be adequate sight distance. And so at this point, we don't have a design of the library. We don't have a design of the alley.
 I think it could be difficult and kind of put the library in a bad position on having to do something that they might not be able to do in the future. So we would, the staff does not recommend that, the Planning Commission does recommend the alley.
 So you have kind of a little bit different recommendation from staff and the Planning Commission on this. Thank you. So basically number six, which doesn't actually require the construction but it requires the dedication of the minimum right of way for an alley is what came from the Planning Commission and staff I think doesn't recommend that. They didn't recommend it before and just would assume I guess not have number six as
 as a condition. Is that correct or not? DAVID BURRAGE- So would we strike number six? Is that what you're saying? DAVID BURRAGE- Let me make sure I'm correct on that. DAVID BURRAGE- We would recommend that instead of striking it, that you modify it to say that pedestrian and cyclist connection be provided between school and West with the development of the library. And that was what we recommended to the Planning Commission initially.
 that there is connectivity would have to be provided, but instead of dictating that it has to be an alley, that it be provided for pedestrians and cyclists during the site design. OK, what questions do we have for Andrew on this? Matthew. Andrew, if that was your original suggestion, can you contextualize why the Planning Commission modified it?
 The Planning Commission, I think, was concerned with, I think, the term that was used, that this would create a super block, that you would have two long stretches, a stretch between the two adjacent streets. And so I think that was an attempt to mitigate the traffic speeds along here and just kind of create more opportunities for vehicles to go through there. So I think that was primarily from just the urban fabric trying to get another vehicular connection across school and west.
 Anybody else got any questions? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I'll let us continue along. We do have the applicant here who is applying to have the vacation. I don't know if the applicant wants to say anything.
 My name is David Johnson. I'm the executive director of the Fayetteville Public Library and I support the city's recommendations in regards to connectivity and everything that we can do for pedestrians and bicycles and vehicles when safe And it's just the determination on the safety of that alleyway at that particular location. I support the city's recommendation Any questions for David
 Yes, Sarah has a question for you, Meg. Yes, so if there is not going to be an alleyway, how would waste and recycling be handled, as well as the general services loading dock and that sort of thing? Where would that come from? So right now we're still in that preliminary massing design phase. We do have a service entry where a portion of rock would remain open off of west.
 that would allow access into our current loading dock. In two of the massing designs we're looking at, that still is there. So we recognize that we've got to solve for that at some point in our design phase, but we're still in sort of that massing phase, at least through January. So it's likely that there still would be some sort of a service alley, but not necessarily something open to the public? Correct. Thank you.
 anything else for today all right thank you uh public comment did i ask for public comment already all righty i'm gonna bring back to the council what's the wishes of the council thank you um well i guess i'd say i personally support even the planning commission recommendation it's the same um i'm of the opinion you know that if there's actually
 a concern or constructability issue whenever plans move to the next detailed phase, then I'm more than open to revisiting the issue. I also want to say pretty clearly that I don't have it necessarily in my mind that if you do construct an alley, and I put air quotes around this because
 When we say alley, we mean something very specifically in our street standards, and I am not concerned at all with you building an alley to the standards we currently have on the books. I think the standard alley is meant to serve a different purpose. My primary motivation here in making this statement is I think that the right-of-way is what's important, and if you wanted to design that to look different, if you wanted to design that to –
 fulfill some elevated functions in terms of parkland or in terms of plaza space or in terms of service entries peeling off from it I would support any of those solutions okay anybody else Sarah I mean we suspend the rules and go to the second reading mark but I'm still a little confused here you only have to
 huh we didn't we didn't admit it all right because i think what maggie said is what maybe was on the whole okay so we just want to leave it just like it is then they'll have the opportunity to they'll have the opportunity to design for safety as they move along and i i know that they will okay very good then all right something please call the road yes yes yes
 yes yes yes and your mr. food vac 17-59 63 for property located at Rock Street between West Avenue and school streets vacate a portion of the Rock Street right away I know the ways to spend the rules and go the third and final readings or second yes
 yes yes yes yes in orange VAC 17-59 63 for property located at Rock Street between West Avenue and a school street to vacate a portion of the Rock Street right-of-way okay any final comments from the council yeah all right Sandra would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes okay number six
 An ordinance to amend the Unified Development Code to change building height restriction measurements from feet to stories in Chapter 161 and to amend 151.01 definitions to define story. Whereas the Planning Department and Planning Commission recommend that all building height limitations be changed from feet to stories...
 And whereas the Planning Department has presented all such necessary amendments to chapters 151 and 161 to accomplish this change in measurement with exhibits A attached to the Planning Department's memo, now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the city council the city of favela are hereby amends those portions of chapter 161 as described in exhibit a attached to the planning department's memo in order to change all existing height restriction measurements of buildings from feet to stories within this chapter 161 of the unified development code section 2 that the city council the city of favela are hereby repeals section 151.01 definitions of building height and story and enacts a new definition of story as follows quote story
 for instance building height building height when measured in stories shall be as defined by the international building code unquote Okay, who has that? Mayor and members of the council of Garner Stowe development services director This is a text amendment to the unified development code that proposed us to change how we measure maximum building height it's It's very straightforward But it has broad implications
 It originated out of the discussions with the Planning Commission regarding zoning for the North College Avenue that's on for items 6 and 7. The item in front of you proposes to change how we measure building height. It doesn't propose to change the allowed building height, what I mean by that.
 For instance, most of our low density districts, RSF4, the common single family district, presently has a 45 foot building height limitation on it. With this amendment, that would change to three stories. Now if you look at Fayetteville, very rarely does it produce buildings that are taller than one, two, or two and a half stories.
 Very rarely in the single family districts are buildings even 35 foot tall. So even though this changes how we measure in practical effect, it probably would be minimal in our low density districts. Other districts such as the RO residential office district, which has a 56 foot height
 that would be translated to five stories. The C2 Highway Commercial District, which has a 75 foot limitation, would be translated to six stories. So why is this being proposed? This is a common change that is being made all over the country. And it's supposed to address unintended consequences. For instance,
 Sometimes when property owners try to maximize the building height, if you measure it in feet, it results in flat roofs. Or it might result in lower floor to ceiling heights. Or it actually might result in suppressing the building downward to maximize the building height.
 This amendment fixes all of those and I think it's a much easier Ordinance to administrate also Planning Commission and the staff recommend approval be happy to answer any questions John
 Garner, would you say most developers in town or in northwest Arkansas would view this as a positive change, that it would more definitely define things so they wouldn't have to have all this uncertainty? Will this help developers?
 I believe after they gain some experience with it, they will support it. Whether or not they're fully aware of what we're proposing or support it right off the bat, I don't know. But we haven't heard any negative feedback. Okay. Just we need to balance, you know, our UDC changes.
 We want to keep Fayetteville beautiful and we want to have design standards, but at the same time we don't want to run development up to Benton County. Absolutely. That's what I'm concerned with. Thank you. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to follow up on that question just a little bit. I couldn't be more supportive of this. I think that this is one of the few kinds of policy changes that can be made that is good for everybody.
 There are the reasons that Garner stated, including especially the tendency for building projects to bring habitable space all the way up to the height limit when it's defined in terms of feet, which incentivizes certain roof forms, so it depresses flexibility. But also this, this is I think the most subtle and most important aspect of it.
 You may not realize this but whether when you're talking to a bank or when you're talking to the city or when you're talking to different departments within the city or when you're talking to an architect the same terms can be defined differently by every single group and Building height is one of those examples that is often defined differently depending on which division or entity You're you're speaking with what this ordinance does is it? I?
 references the International Building Code, which is adopted everywhere and enforced nearly everywhere in the country. It references that for its definition of stories. And so what that means is, whether you're talking to an engineer or to the bank or to the building safety department or to the planning department, everyone is now on the same definition.
 for building height. So it greatly simplifies the administrative process from our side and also the design and due diligence process from the other side of the table. Another advantage I bring for the council's consideration, measuring building height is problematic if you measure it in feet.
 You always have to in your ordinance establish what your baseline is for measuring vertical space from the ground So some communities use the closest street some communities use the median of a slope I can go on but the point is it can get very complicated. This is much simpler and
 John. Sarah. I'll say thank you gentlemen. I need that clarification. Thank you. Sarah. Thank you. I've been advocating for this change for years and I'm glad to see that we're finally getting around to doing it.
 What this means from my perspective is more quality buildings and that are more consistent with the vernacular of the Ozarks. What this is going to allow is for taller spaces instead of the eight-foot floor heights so you get greater natural light penetration into the building. You get an opportunity for heat to rise so you can reduce your cooling costs. A lot of our older homes and buildings have taller ceilings for that reason.
 And one of the things that I learned when I was working in architecture is in order to cram all of these spaces in and maximize the floor area ratios in buildings, what was getting compressed was mechanical spaces. And that was resulting in the use of a lot more environmentally damaging refrigerants to avoid ducting mechanical systems. So from an environmental standpoint, this is a big win in that it gives, you know, it
 building space to operate efficiently and effectively. And then from a streetscape perspective, it allows for subtle variations in building height that really add visual interest to our public spaces. So I think it's going to be a good thing for our city and I strongly support it and I'm glad we're moving forward. Thank you. Okay. Any other comments from the council? Any public comments on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council.
 Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sarah. Second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. McTierney. Yes. Bryant. Yes. Warren. Yes. Yes.
 in order to amend the unified development code to change building height restriction measurements from feet to stories in chapter 161 and to amend section 151.01 definitions to define story i move we suspend the rules go to the third and final reading second that motion is saying we go to the third and final reading sondra would you please call the
 kenyon yes eddie yes yes yes yes yes yes and ordinance amend the unified development code to change building height restriction measurements from feet to stories in chapter 161 and to amend section 151.01 definitions to define story comments from council this is a good ordinance change thank you garner and the staff working on this and bringing this forward appreciate it very much all right
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Mr. Yes. Ray? Yes. Mark? Yes. Okay, number seven. In order to rezone all parcels within or near College Avenue, as shown in Exhibit C of the Planning Department's Agenda Memo comprising about 24.62 acres kit.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby rezone all parcels within an area boundary shown on exhibit C of the Planning Department's agenda memo comprising about twenty four point six two acres from their current zoning districts to the zoning districts shown on exhibit C
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner, you have that one? Yes, Mayor. With your permission, I'd like to do a combined staff report on 7 and 8 since they're related. Or I can... The county's separate right now. I don't know...
 Well, it's certainly just hit he can certainly comment on something we're not looking at right now if he wants to discuss them at the same time They just relate So mayor council this is a proposal to rezone both sides of North College Avenue from Maple to North Street and
 as depicted on the map. This is a section that is currently in the final stages for construction of a wider sidewalk, installation of street trees and pedestrian lighting. This is, as everyone is aware, a very important street and a very important section of an important street.
 So, it's received a lot of attention and a lot of review and deservedly so. Planning Commission, Council, 13 public meetings were held just this year. To make sure that everybody was aware of this item being considered by you tonight, we also formally re-notified the property owners and adjacent property owners a couple weeks ago.
 Before we get into the trenches of talking about zoning and alternatives for zoning, I thought it might be a good idea to talk about the vision for this stretch of College Avenue, which really creates a front door to downtown Fayetteville. So in the city plan 2030, the area is designated in blue, which is called city slash neighborhood.
 That designation means that we're looking to allow a variety of uses from retail to office to residential. We're wanting to make the area more walkable and we're wanting to take the highway and make a main street out of it. The application of that concept for this stretch of College Avenue in my mind means
 making the highway or taming the highway and bringing the adjacent neighborhoods more tightly into the city and adding value to those neighborhoods as well as to the properties along the highway.
 the plan has a number of buildings that were collected that are in fayetteville to illustrate and they are from two-story mixed-use buildings three-story mixed-use buildings and they're depicted on the side of this map so when the original city plan was under development 2025 city plan 2025
 This street was identified as an important street to talk about how properties that are in diverse ownership can incrementally develop and become a walkable street.
 This picture shows the sidewalk, it shows the street trees, very reminiscent to what's under construction just north of this. This is actually between College and Lafayette looking south. You can see the old courthouse tower in the background. Now, in the next slide, you start seeing a new building on the left. And you see an attempt to tame the highway by installing a median.
 Now people start showing up. More buildings are added on the right. Parallel parking is added again to try to address the issue of speeding traffic. And finally, as the street recovers economically, as it becomes more viable, more expensive buildings are shown. And it goes from a highway to a main street. It goes from a highway to a main street.
 frankly a road that too often repels to a road that attracts this isn't new to pay at bill uh block street between dixon and downtown this is looking south on block street city was farsighted added parallel parking added landscaping added a very nice sidewalk and we're now seeing new new buildings being built in that section
 Dixon Street, of course, has always been alive, and it's our premier pedestrian street at this time. So when the zoning was being discussed in the community, when the zoning was being discussed by the Planning Commission, earlier considerations were to create a custom-designed district for this area.
 And the Planning Commission felt that we had existing zoning tools and we needed to use those. Earlier proposals also proposed to add a density cap, a conventional 18 units per acre. Planning Commission and I think everybody is real concerned about the topography and the floodplain. Retail is so important on this street and it's important to balance our budget.
 And I think everybody wanted to maximize the retail potential for this street. And finally, compatibility with adjacent neighborhoods were important considerations. Taking all those considerations, the Planning Commission and staff decided that the best two districts, the best two existing districts available were the two form-based districts,
 that establish a common build to line for the entire street, both sides of the street. Generally, the UT Urban Thoroughfield District is the most intense district and it's applied to lots with deep lots. The other district is the Community Services District. It has a little shorter building height and it is applied to the lots that are shallower. So in a nutshell,
 The goal here is to make College Avenue more walkable while protecting adjacent neighborhoods. We did some sketches of buildings that have been built, similar buildings that have been built in Fayetteville recently as well as elsewhere. And we focused on four-story buildings. This could be four-story residential buildings.
 if residential is allowed for four stories or it could be one story retail or commercial space and three floors of residential above it. But this is College and North. I think the point here is that the building supports the street, the building creates a pedestrian environment, but it is a substantial building at four stories.
 Similarly at College in Cleburne, another four-story building, and you can kind of see how it creates a streetscape. So retail uses are still allowed. Under the present C2 zoning, a big box could be built on this corridor with a 50-foot required front yard setback,
 and parking all around it, and it would probably look something like this site plan. So since retail is still allowed in the proposed zoning districts, it would have to be pulled up to the street. This has many advantages. It supports the street, it supports the walkability of the street. It also makes it much easier to screen the impacts of
 a large retail development on the adjacent neighborhoods we can use fencing we can use landscaping cut off lighting and minimize the impact on the adjacent neighborhoods over the previous zoning so the key elements the building height essentially stays the same the conventional zoning districts are being translated to form based zoning districts
 The front yard setback is replaced with a build 2 line and the requirement is to be within 10 to 25 feet from the right of way. And finally it introduces residential uses. So the planning commission and the staff recommend the rezoning change as well as the design overlay district which is out of made.
 And the point of the Overland District is to add a requirement that new buildings in this stretch of College Avenue have to meet the downtown design architectural standards.
 the first floor uh floor to ceiling height has to be maintained at 12 feet this is to reserve it for a non-residential active use when the market reaches that point it doesn't require that but it reserves the space and gets the building construction constructed properly finally planning commission staff recommended the previous two conditions for the overlay district
 uh staff is also recommending that at this time we restrict the building height for residential uses to three stories this has uh i think two primary advantages um it it would create less imposing structures uh that would that might impact adjacent neighborhoods and i think it would
 encourage a greater possibility of mixed-use buildings if we allow three stories of residential and given the economics of this area giving given what has recently been constructed in Fayetteville it's probably not tall buildings but probably three to four story buildings I'd be happy to answer any questions
 Okay, what questions do we have for Garner on this? Alright. Sarah, let's see here. Yes, I was curious to know if there was any discussion about removing use unit 18, the drive-throughs and what is, fueling stations from this as a by-right and moving that to a conditional use? There recently has been some discussion about doing that, yes.
 I would ask Andrew when that discussion started. I just heard it in the past two or three weeks. There was one planning commissioner, I recall mentioning that, and I'm not sure if it was with this College Avenue, but has mentioned it on other items as well. When the commission did talk about this particular corridor,
 If I recall, there was not a consensus other than one commissioner that thought about removing the drive-throughs. And I think that one of the main things was realizing that the retail use and existing zoning allows drive-throughs and that's kind of an expectation on this portion of College Avenue that you could have a coffee shop where somebody could go through a window.
 this majority of the commission had those concerns but it was i think it was discussed i can't recall exactly how the conversations took place over this year but they did not remove it that's correct they did not feel like it needed to be removed i i think zoning is a snapshot in time and as this quarter evolves as it matures as it gets more attractive
 There's going to be less demand for the automobile single story buildings and uses. Whether those uses should be eliminated right now I think is a policy decision for the council to consider, but I think the economics of this corridor, if it's successful, will move away from those uses.
 Then the other concern I had was both of the form-based zoning districts that were recommended have built two lines of 10 to 25 feet. And so that would prohibit us from doing zero lot line builds like we see along Dixon Street or on Block Street and any along our square and any of the other much loved pedestrian oriented spaces in our community. What was, why are we restricted or why are we allowing buildings to set back up to 25 feet in this proposal? And that...
 That's what that both of those districts were drafted that way. Those are the districts that those are the requirements the setbacks the build to line in the present districts. They weren't crafted for this particular corridor. That is the build to line as established in these two districts. I would point out that in other communities that were tall buildings
 four stories or higher, were placed on the property owner on similar corridors. They ended up being too tight. I can show you South Lamar in Austin where the community wants to add parallel parking. The community wants to add dedicated separated bike lanes. They don't have anywhere to go. They're wonderful buildings but they're a little too close. Do we have any public comment on this?
 sorry you have something to go ahead on these i don't know if i really want to pass these tonight i want to i want to mull these around for sure i'm going to bring it back to councilman matthew yeah um well thank you mayor i agree with your sentiment i don't think we should pass it tonight especially given that we've got a couple of absences um
 And my thinking on that is all of this is in Ward 2, but I think any time you're talking about downtown or College Avenue, these are places that are owned a little bit by every person in the community regardless of where you live. So at the very least I think we should do our best to accommodate some of the absences tonight. I did want to express just kind of my thoughts and signal what I'm thinking.
 I'm not going to make a motion or anything. Firstly, I'd say I agree with Alder or Councilperson Marsh in terms of the questions about some of the more auto-oriented uses. I understand staff's concern that that would create some non-conforming buildings in this area, but I don't think that is much of a problem. I don't have any,
 beef at all with the businesses that are there, but I don't think that allowing those uses by right without any oversight is a wise move that is in alignment with the vision that's been cast. I think that's out of alignment with the vision that's been cast. And I think shifting those uses, including...
 Some of the other auto-oriented uses that we would look at in these two districts to conditional uses instead of by right uses is a wise move that would bring that more into alignment while allowing businesses that are there to have an avenue for expansion and also allowing prospective businesses that might fall in those categories today to have an avenue for application. So I think that's a great middle ground.
 And hopefully we'll consider that at a future meeting for a vote. The other thing that I am not, that I'm a little apprehensive about is the recommendation from staff that residential uses be limited to three stories out of a building regardless of how, of the total number of stories of the building. I'm concerned about that for a couple of reasons.
 I'd say first off the most simple reason is that the Planning Commission recommended explicitly against it unanimously with all members present. And that gives me great pause. The other reasons are we've talked a lot over the last decade even about the need for public transit in northwest Arkansas and in Fayetteville.
 The quality of life surveys put out by the Walton Family Foundation indicate that more than 60% of residents in Northwest Arkansas think that that should be our top priority. And I expect that the proportion of Fayetteville residents who believe it should be a high priority for us is even greater. We know that as the number of households in a particular area rises, the efficiency, the operational efficiency of transit increases.
 goes up to the point where it becomes viable and it even becomes productive and I think if we're looking at any area of town that should be transit ready or transit viable in Fayetteville this is this is one of those areas and so I'm deeply concerned about the long-term implications of the limitation as recommended by staff for that reason
 I'm also concerned about that for another reason, and that is housing affordability. We know that housing costs, both in terms of home ownership and in terms of rentership, are climbing in Fayetteville right now. And there are many complex reasons that they're going up, and one of those is very simple and foundational, and it's simply this. More people want to live here than we have households for.
 And so we have a supply issue that is, for which there are many reasons. There are many reasons there is a supply issue, but nevertheless we have one. And providing new housing options and a diversity of housing options for people for a diversity of incomes and backgrounds is the only way to solve or to address that looming crisis.
 and I fear that this limitation will inhibit our ability to address that looming crisis. And there's a third reason that I especially want to signal my concerns about for future discussions. And that's I understand that there is a genuine attempt to address the concerns that have been expressed by the neighbors.
 which I've heard and I've paid attention to from the very beginning of the first proposal to rezone this section of the road. And not all of those concerns, but some of those concerns have been rooted in an argument that expresses a fear of the sort of people that will live in these buildings if we allow them to be constructed.
 And that is an argument that I believe treads dangerously close and sometimes even crosses a line with respect to What is proper and appropriate to consider when we're making these decisions we know from studying our history that Conversations about what would happen to our neighborhoods that were fixed to our
 fears of the sorts of people who might relocate to our neighborhoods impacted many people in this country and even in Fayetteville not so long ago. Some of us might even be alive who can remember when we made decisions on bases that were frankly immoral. And though this is a genuine attempt to address
 Concerns from the neighbors some of which are certainly legitimate. I've also heard some concerns expressed by the neighbors that I would not consider legitimate and When and those are the kinds of concerns? Rooted in who might live there that I don't consider legitimate. So I haven't heard yet a a
 a clean argument for a limit on residential stories that doesn't rely on that sort of argument. I remain open-minded to it. I don't think the door is shut that there is a clean argument for it, but I'm waiting to hear it before I can support that kind of limit. And I hope I can hear an attempt at it in future discussions. Go on.
 Yes, Mayor, thank you. A couple of comments that I want to make in terms of the staff's recommendation on both of the items you're talking about. One on the use units. I think it's our belief that we've had 13 public meetings and in those meetings this discussion of changing the use unit has not been a prevalent, prominent, acknowledged topic with all of the...
 stakeholders that have been involved in this process in some ways it's been more at the committee level so we don't think that it's had the Outreach publicly to make sure that people are aware of it we remember a mayoral campaign when mayor Jordan ran and people made the accusations of doing away with uses and
 and then it ultimately had people feeling like we were trying to put them out of business simply because we were making a non-conforming use even though they would be allowed to be sustained sometimes making sure that the people who are going to be impacted by these changes from a non-conforming use perspective don't feel like they're being blindsided because we've done the public outreach that's needed to make them aware and understand why a positive of this district
 is that these uses don't really exist there today. So a way to address it, the staff is very supportive of talking about it within this boundary because it doesn't exist there today and we have that luxury, but we think it should be an open and transparent public process. That's the first point I want to make on the use unit. And we agree with it. We actually think that's a good proposal. In terms of why the staff has picked the
 the limit of three residential stories is not based on a bias to any group or student housing. There is a real reality, same thing, that we have neighborhoods who are concerned about their impact.
 It is our experience that the fear of the unknown kills ideas long before they get the chance to make it on the ground. We're talking about an area that has been defined as a healthy corridor to be developed, that we need a successful visual process. Our public outreach in the development of our 2025 plan, the pictures are shown. Go look at it yourself.
 don't show five and seven story buildings. They're showing two, three in most cases, in the page that the public was vetted. And again, it's about maintaining that credibility with what they think we presented and saw when these plans were constructed and developed.
 It's also, I think sometimes we get stuck on these items of the perfect versus the pilot. And the ability to change these things in the future are certainly something that you've talked about in very...
 big ordinances, I remember a discussion of the civil rights ordinance, there's nothing in here if it's got an unintended consequence, we can't come back and talk about and address. And I would say that this falls in that same type of bucket that if we see the market demand, the reality of it is today we don't see anybody building on it even though these heights and limits are allowed within it today. And so we're trying to encourage
 more in it. And I think if most of us looked at the economics of this, even if they were all three residential, three story buildings, it's still in keeping with the 2025 plan and the original discussion with the public.
 As staff, many times we're concerned about perception and transparency. And so just this week we received a message about why are you talking about this topic on Thanksgiving week when the school is closed and the university is out and my neighborhood and we're traveling and we don't have the opportunity to do that. That's not the intention of the council. We know that. It's not the intention of the planning commission and it's certainly not the intention of the staff.
 And so something like this being held on a reading for people to feel like they had the opportunity is why the mayor has directed the staff. I also want to say that this concept started with the staff.
 which means that the recommendations we're bringing to you are the recommendations that our boss, the mayor, has approved. And then it is getting additional advisory opinions from the Planning Commission, yourselves and others as you ultimately adopt this code.
 We don't have, I think, I give this speech every time, particularly in town and gown, we don't have an anti-student mentality at the city. We don't think everything is going to be student housing. There's advantages of office space in these heights with living space. It's about scale. It's also about getting something on the ground that is successful and works so that we can duplicate it over and over before we have one item go up
 and someone use it as the reason to defeat people with this very policy concept or the projects that would be coming afterwards. Thank you. I think what most disappoints me about this proposal is that I was hoping we were going to get more tools and that we were going to have new zoning designations that can help us do adjustments.
 address issues in our city with more a greater level of granularity and Instead we're using the same tools over and over again And I don't feel like they're the best fit that to really create this walkable vital urban revitalized space that we're seeking Most of what we're seeing the proposal to rezone its community services which builds up allows up to five stories and
 And urban thoroughfare, which even in the definition of what urban thoroughfare is, it says that it's predominantly an auto-oriented type development, which can go up to six stories and it can allow a setback of up to 25 feet, which is parking spaces in the front of the building, and that's really not what we desire here. I also have issues with the three-story limit on residential. Putting more homes down there, that's our consumer base.
 The residents down there, it's our consumer base, it's our workforce, it builds transit density, and it enables new housing typologies that are more appropriate for the changing demographics. We saw in our demographics information that was passed out with the budget that we're over 60% rental in this city, and over 75% of households have no children present.
 We have a growing number of senior citizens and you know it would be great if they could take an elevator up to an apartment That was within walking distance of a grocery store. That's the type of city I thought we were trying to build in the proposal on the table. I feel like falls far short of that So I hope that we hold it here tonight, and I think it needs a lot of revisiting. Thank you More work
 We've been discussing this a long time and certainly since I live in this neighborhood, I've got a lot of input from the neighborhood. And one of the things that is the concern is the preservation of the current integrity and the heritage of the neighborhoods that are connected between Wilson Park and the Washington Willow Historic District. The.
 experience and it is real experience that tall high density buildings can be not inviting to pedestrian right-of-ways, but they can be dividing within a neighborhood and that's the argument that we heard from the neighbors as It was being developed. We also have to be realistic and look at the topography here. It's not level. It's up and down It's we can say pedestrian all we want to and I hope that it becomes very pedestrian but
 The reality is there's a lot of people that because of the topography are not going to utilize this as a main street downtown square pedestrian right-of-way simply because of the topography or at least that's the concerns that we heard at the meetings that I attended The recommendation of the three stories doesn't say a building can't be more than three stories it says it can be mixed use with a maximum of three stories of a
 of residential. So you could still have your retail, you could still have your restaurant, but then you could have three stories of residential in addition to that, or an office, or a mixed use. And I think that that was more accommodating when you look at the integration of business into a very well established neighborhood that is an identity already that has been established. So as a neighborhood preservation point of view,
 i think that we have to be realistic and look at connecting the historic value between these two very beautiful neighborhoods and not having a line of division between the two and so that's i'm just i'm just repeating what we heard when we were in these charrettes and in these meetings and i think that if you're looking at the concern of a developer you have to get financing also so you have to show a need and you have to
 show the utility of the building in order to get the financing and move forward. So these were things that were discussed and I think that will be discussed as we move forward, and I think that we should...
 respect those discussions that have been in place to get to this point. I do agree that we haven't really put a new toolbox out, but we've done the best we can with what is provided, and I think it's a good start. I really do.
 There were some other things. I do think that we have to look at density to be transit ready. I understand that and I think that we have the opportunity to do that with more mixed use. So we're not prohibiting density to the point that it's going to be prohibitive of transportation development.
 So, in conclusion, I think that it wasn't just a concern of a demographic that we don't want living in our neighborhood. It was a concern of preserving the very thing that makes these neighborhoods so attractive. Not only preserving that, but enhancing it. And that's a real concern when you're looking at a historic neighborhood.
 neighborhood that has a heritage and that's a very connected heritage that sets Fayetteville apart from any other city And makes it unique so we want to protect that unique viability which one thing that we've done is by Going to stories instead of height is we will allow architecture that will be more integrated by having a
 The capacity to have more articulated roof lines that would fit into the character of the neighborhood There's a lot for us to consider here, and I'm not making any proposal, but I did want to clarify I understand where this came from by attending the meetings and seeing the elevations that were presented at the meetings and that's how come and
 It was presented in the way that we have it in front of us. So these are the arguments that we would expect to hear as we move forward. Thanks. Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay.
 I assume we're going to leave this on the first reading. I think there's quite a bit of discussion that we need to do on this. And I'm going to read number eight. I assume we will leave that on the first reading as well because they sort of come together. Mayor, may I clarify one point that I probably didn't clarify by presentation? The Bill 2 line is from 10 to 25 feet. Both districts prohibit parking in that space.
 So they would have to landscape it, create plazas. They can't use it for parking. Okay. All right. Let's hold this on the first reading. I'm going to read number eight. In ordinance to amend 166.21 downtown design overlay district by amending the applicability section to include college avenue overlay district and to enact 166.26 college avenue overlay district. Yes.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 166.21 B Applicability by adding quote and College Avenue overlay district unquote to the end of the first section Section 2 that the City Council the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby enacts section 166 .26 College Avenue overlay district as shown below subsection a purpose
 The intent of this ordinance is to encourage good architectural form through the use of quality design and materials. The goal of the code is to promote functional architecture that creates attractive and useful space while minimizing potential negative impacts of tall, single-use, multifamily buildings. Section B, Applicability. The College Avenue Overlay District applies to parcels of land located within the boundaries of the College Avenue Overlay District.
 Subsection C, general requirements. Number one, buildings shall be constructed in accordance with the downtown design overlay district architectural standards. Number two, the ground floor of any building shall have a minimum story height of 12 feet. And number three, residential use can occupy no more than three stories in a building. Okay. Garner, do you have anything you want to add more? No.
 So I assume we leave this on first reading and pick it up in two weeks. Okay? All right. Thank you all. Number nine.
 resolution to adopt the 2018 annual budget and work program Paul good evening mayor and council I think we had a very good discussion very productive discussion Saturday concerning the budget I'll just hit a couple highlights the budget for this year total budget for operations hundred and sixty point eight million dollars up from one hundred and fifty five point one million dollars that's everything combined that
 That's an increase of 5.6. If we look at where those increases are, they're for debt service for the new library bond issue, and they're in personnel costs. The combination of those two are about $5,600,000. If we look at the general fund,
 General fund is up 2.4 million dollars 2.1 million dollars of that is for increases granted in 2017 when you approve the mayor's recommended salary increase program Also health insurance increases and pension increases are related to that. So this is pretty bare-bones budget we addressed
 the salary increases that we did. It does not include salary increases for 2018, as we have been doing. Again, we'll discuss that in the first quarter of 2018 after we see how the year closes and we try to see what the revenue trends going forward are. That's my comments on the overall budget. But I do want to address something that I think is necessary that does relate to the budget as incorporated in the budget.
 I saw an article in a newspaper today that the library was talking about their budget. Yesterday I had a presentation and read the article and there was some confusion. We got some phone calls about it. One of the things it said was they did increase the budget by $700,000. Now part of that is due to the operational expansion. They're adding people, etc.
 The chief financial officer at the library indicated that partially the funding was cut back a bit by the city. In fact, that is true on a very, very minor level. We reduced the capital.
 plan for publications and books by $58,000. What wasn't related was we also increased equipment and technology by $45,000. So we had a net of about $13,000 in the CIP. I did not present that to the council. I considered that relatively insignificant.
 I make many many adjustments as I'm working on the budget so I felt that was insignificant point of time didn't point that out had discussed that work with the chief financial officer at the library and felt we could work that in now the head of the article talked about
 that we're using expansion, that we're using expansion funds for these increases. I want to make something perfectly clear, and I did talk to the library about this. There were two property tax millages passed by the voters. 1.5 mills was for operation, expansion operations. That is what they're talking about. They're using that money.
 Two, the other one was $1.2 million to assist with the construction of the library. We floated... 1.2 mils. Pardon? 1.2 mils. Oh, I'm sorry.
 1.2 mills for the debt service for the capital program. We issued $22.5 million worth of bonds. Now that 1.2 mills directed and approved by the voters for the construction is restricted by law to the capital construction period. They can't change that. I can't change that. That is where the trustee, and that's where it goes.
 I'm the compliance officer for this bond issue. And trust me, that is where it's going to go. If I did not do that, I would be violating the law. That's not going to happen. I'll assure you of that. So I want to make that perfectly clear. We're not taking money that the city voters
 allocated to construction for that building and diverting it in any method. Again, this was a small amount of change.
 Every year the budget includes 1.7 million dollars for operations That's what it had in it last year for the library 1.7 million dollars for operations this year. That's consistent did Request that the library help out a little bit I want to get as much money as I could for sidewalks and things of that nature for us, which is where I I
 put it in the budget and it was minor therefore I felt no need to discuss it fully with the council So I did that in my capacity as chief financial officer with that
 I'll be happy to answer any questions. I thought that was necessary to discuss because we had had some telephone calls in there on that. And it's very, very important that we clarify that we are not taking anything that the voter for in construction and diverting it any other way. We don't do that.
 I'll be happy to answer any questions on anything on a budget or anything on the On the library issue that I discussed with you
 Good evening, Paul. Good evening, John. You mentioned three or four times just now in your monologue that you were complying with the wishes of the voters. That's correct. From your emphasis on those points, I take it that you consider that to be very important that we do comply with the wishes of the voters? Absolutely. That's why we ask voters what they wish, yes. OK, good. So voters are important to the process, right? Voters are the process.
 I agree. Voters are in the process. They elect you, they elect the mayor, and they vote on these issues. I hope to quote you shortly. Thank you. You can do that, John. Any other questions? Any other questions for Paul on the budget? I do appreciate everybody that was there. That was a good discussion. Any public comment on the budget? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to council. John.
 all right adela i um wish that we would pass the resolution as it is do you make a motion to pass the resolution yes to adopt the budget okay sarah i'll second that we have a motion in a second to pass the budget stop the budget any final comments from council adele you're still on the floor do you have another comment no thank you okay all right there's no other final discussion and
 oh sorry sorry yeah i asked for public comment did i not you did okay let's check all right i do want to thank paul and all his work and the staff's work on this budget it takes i know we present this towards the end of the year but it's not just done in a week or two it takes a lot of work on that and we work very hard on the budget
 And I've said it before, we'll say it again, I think, I believe the most important job you do is an elected official's property. And it's the taxpayer's money. All right. And with that, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. LeCure? Yes. Wright? Yes. Barnes? Yes. All righty then. Well, I thought everybody stayed for the budget. All right. All right.
 First of all, does anybody want to break before we get into this? Didn't we have a handout that showed examples of... Okay. Yes, this is what I'm looking for. The next order of business that we have tonight, final order of business, is since there is a vacancy in Ward 4, Position 2,
 Tonight, the council has to make a decision of either appointing someone or putting it out for a special election. And first, we've got to discuss the process and what you want to do. Now, the way I would like to conduct this, I want it to be done orderly. I do not want it to look like the Marx Brothers movie. I'm going to ask first that we discuss the procedure in which you would like to do it.
 And then we will discuss it. We will take public comment on everything, okay, as we go. So the first order of business we have tonight is how you all would like to proceed with the process of replacing, appointing or replacing by either an appointment or special election the position in Ward 4, Position 2, Adele.
 Mayor, I would like to motion that we appoint a replacement for this alderman at this time. Okay, we have a motion to appoint instead of an election, correct? Yes. All right, Sarah. I'll second that motion. Okay, that brings it up for discussion. All right, let us begin to discuss that process. Who'd like to be first? John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 I'm going to get a little personal here. I'm going to tell you about my mother and father. My father fought in World War II in the Philippines. He was in the CB Corps. He built bridges and roads before the troops came in. He contracted malaria there and had failing health the rest of his life. He died when I was 14 years old. His wife, my mother,
 died six years later of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, better known as Lou Gehrig's disease. It may be hereditary, I may die of the same thing. I don't know and I don't care. My issue is not how I die, my issue is how I live, whatever days God gives me to live. For those of you who are not familiar with Lou Gehrig's disease, it's a crippling disease. Your mind still works, but the nerves that control your muscles deteriorate and they do not work anymore.
 So your brain might tell your arm muscle, lift my arm, but it can't do it because the muscles don't get that sensation. She was in a wheelchair, and she had myself and my older sister bring her to the polls to vote. She could not talk. She could not walk. She could not feed herself. But she considered the vote important. I cannot support a motion to appoint a representative
 for the people of Ward 4. I understand that we're going to incur a cost with the special election. If there were only a few weeks or months left in this term, I could see where appointment might be appropriate to save the cost of the election. But Mr. Long, whom we're replacing, served 11 months of a 48-month term. There's still 77 percent, more than 77 percent of that term left to fill. I consider it immoral
 I'm sorry Adele, I just disagree. I consider it immoral to take the vote away from the people of Ward 4 because my mother had me bring her to the voting booth when she was in a wheelchair and could not walk or talk because my father basically gave his life for our freedom to vote. I asked our CFO about the importance of voting and he explained how important he thought that was. I now quote him.
 I think we should not disenfranchise Ward 4 and tell the people of Ward 4, we know what's best for you, we're going to appoint somebody we like. I'm probably the most physical conservative on this council. I don't like government spending. But because the vote is such a compelling issue, I would be willing to spend the money for a special election, particularly in just one ward of our town. It would be much less expensive than doing an entire city vote.
 So I speak against the motion that's on the table. I ask you, as my colleagues on the council, please do not take the vote lightly. My father died so that Ward 4 could vote. My mother never quit fighting to exercise her right to vote. Please give the people of Ward 4 their opportunity to vote on the representative. Thank you. Okay. Adele. Adele.
 i believe did justin want to speak no i don't have him on that i have you oh i just wanted to uh remind um council member latour that on a couple of items like the civil rights and the library i believe you were very much against the vote on those two as i recall thank you okay um just yeah thank you um well i i don't really want to get into
 a morality debate or anything else, but I do have an issue with appointing someone to longer than a one year term. I've always sort of thought that if this ever happened here, that if it was less than one year left on a term, that was sort of my guiding timeline. I thought it was appropriate then to appoint because to go through a special election,
 the several special elections that we've had here just simply because I thought it may be not the best use of the people's money. But in this particular case, I haven't heard actually what the cost would be for this election. Do we know if we did a special election in February? It would be anywhere from $10,000 to $30,000.
 And I just have to go on what the citywide election cost and then logically assume that it might be less than that for a ward, although it may not be guaranteed.
 but my other problem with having just an appointment is again we're not talking one year we're talking well over 75 percent or as council member uh latour said 77 plus percent of one person's term so that is a long time for us to just appoint someone and um i mean i i got a flood of correspondence from some people i've heard of some people i haven't
 All of them may be really qualified good people, but to expect me in less than 24 hours to, because I know somebody or because I happen to have heard somebody say that someone's good or would be good,
 i'm not a voter in ward 4 i haven't seen a debate of those people i haven't vetted that out and so as a voter if i was in ward 4 and this was a special election and there were 10 people sitting at a table i'm not sure i would be able to vote for them on the basis of what i know here so how can i uh justify a decision to simply appoint them because of an assumption of
 this gentleman's picture. I mean, he looks qualified this lady's way with word. I don't know. I mean, I don't I don't know that we're in a huge hurry to do this. I thank Council Member Long for his service. This is not an easy thing to do. But regardless of who wants to be seated next to to to Council Member Latour for the next
 three years and two months. I don't feel comfortable appointing someone here. It would simply be me
 in a popularity contest or me because I've met somebody on the street and they seem nice. I think this position is a little more important than that. I don't know what's coming these next three years. I'm assuming just like every other year, we're going to have some controversy and we're going to have some debate and we're going to have some agreements and disagreements and that's what this is all about. But people need to make that decision. Again, if it was just a year or less,
 I could justify making an appointment or the mayor or however that would work if it was less than a year I don't remember the rules but
 But I certainly would feel better about that. So again, this has nothing to do with who the person or persons are that might line up at the door to want to be a member of Ward 4. But I think that needs to be left up to the people. And it sounds like the first possible time to do it would be February 13th. That's not ideal. I don't like going that long with one less person on the council. But I couldn't.
 My conscience wouldn't let me just appoint someone on the basis that I don't really know them I haven't talked to I think any but maybe two of these people in my life So it would be difficult for me to just a point purely on that basis. Thank you. Okay I
 Okay, I'm going to take public comment on, stay with the topic now, either appointment or election. I will take public comment on that because that's what the procedure is, what is before us right now, okay? So I will, I want everybody to stay on topic with this. I'm sure there'll be plenty of time for you to give plenty of speeches before this is all over, but right now we're going to stay with the procedure, okay? All right, who would like to talk, who would like to speak on the procedure? Okay.
 Please introduce yourself. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Good evening, Mr. Mayor. My name is Nathan Allen. I ran against Mr. Long last year for the position of Ward 4, Position 2. He beat me. It was my first foyer into politics. And it was a great time to experience democracy. And I feel that to be the person who...
 I didn't win the election, that's fine. And since then, I've moved out of Ward 4 and have gotten another job. But the idea that we would take away the rights of the people in Ward 4 to choose who represents them with such a long term I think is very important.
 And I think for the council to just appoint someone not based on what the ward, the citizens of Ward 4 want, I think is quite honestly detestable. And I think there needs to be a vote for the people of Ward 4 to choose who represents themselves. And so that's why I'm here this evening. Thank you. Thank you.
 Andrew Miles, Ward 4, 1884 North Caton Drive. And I'll preface this by saying I was one of the people that, I just flooded Mayor Jordan's inbox with a mic
 potential candidacy i chose not to give anyone else uh knowing that it would be a busy schedule today um but prefacing with that i i do agree with uh councilman lectura lieutenant that uh we should have a vote on this um and agree with mr allen as well um but in the the interests of actually fulfilling the duties of that seat and having someone represent
 myself and the ward four constituents, might I postulate that we appoint someone in the interim for a year or at least 11 months, maybe starting in January, and then putting it to a two-year term to fill out the rest of that at next year's election. I do realize that poses other problems with the staggered seat positions that we have between first and second seats, but I think in an instance like this, where as we've mentioned it's over a three-year
 vacation of this position that it might be something that's amenable to for one have someone appointed and represent us in the interim and then if that person wants to run on the full ballot next year it would give the voters time to see what that individual can do in that seat and vote yay or nay against him or her or an opponent in the future that's what I'd say thank you very much
 where you need to be running our timer when folks get up today. Hi, my name is Laura Phillips. I am not a Ward 4 member, but I do attend a lot of city council meetings. This is such a unique situation, and I think that it calls for a unique solution. Ordinarily, I would be all for a special election, as I'm sure most of you know, but today, I
 Time is kind of the essence. There's a lot to do in the next couple months, and I don't think that Waiting for a special election is really the right move We have qualified people who have applied and have put their names forward for this position We have city members and sorry city residents who have written letters to support some of those people And I think that it's their their qualifications will speak for themselves
 Y'all are smart people. It's not like we're just pulling names out of a hat. I think you have a chance to act and act quickly and resolve the problem now. It might not be the ideal solution, but it is a way to fix the problem now. So I encourage you to do an appointment rather than a special election. Mayor. Yes, yes. Do we not need the city attorney to clarify what our options are? We have two options, correct?
 according to the law. Yes, you do. In fact, I like the suggestion of the gentleman that was here before. He needs to talk to the legislature, so we have that option. And in fact, for other offices like the city clerk and myself,
 the option would be that you would serve until the next general election if you were appointed. I don't know why. For Alderman, they say no, it will be the entire remaining term, which is not really, I think, a very wise law. I think it should be until the next general election, but that is not what the law says, so that is not an option that we have.
 then one option is to appoint someone for the remainder of the term or to call a special election again for the remainder of the term. Thank you. Who else would like to talk about the procedure? Yes, please. Jake Pesick, Ward 4 resident. I would just encourage the council to consider that appointing someone, especially for such a long term, is potentially likely to inspire resentment of the populace and galvanize people.
 a certain segment of that populace. So I would just be cognizant of the fact that the possibility that whoever you might appoint, you might get the opposite of in the next election. And I would advocate for the special election option. Thank you. Who else?
 Good evening. The beginning of a long night. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive in Ward 4. I'm sympathetic to John's story of his parents and the importance of voting. I've advocated for special elections here at this microphone several times before. The Civil Rights Ordinance, the Library Millage vote, both of those were about the voters setting policy, and this is not policy.
 This position is one of a board that sets policy. And so that person has no more power than any of you would. Mr. Becker said that the voters are the process when he was talking about the millage vote. But in this situation, the law lays out a very clear process and you all are it. You get to make this decision. Mr. Finn, I also understand that you're concerned about being in a hurry.
 I think it was also a surprise for a lot of us who may seek this position later that it was going to come quite so quickly. But I know that I'm here on a regular basis. For the last three years, I've been through a lot of city council meetings with y'all.
 And to be honest, I'm tired of watching empty seats up here. Our Ward 4 seats in particular are empty a lot. And if we have to go another two to four months with that, that bothers me for the city's business and the people in Ward 4.
 Just over a year ago, voters in Ward 4 had a choice, not just between two candidates, but also between two very different visions for what they wanted Fayetteville to be. Ward 4 made their preference, it was pretty clear. And when they elected Alan Long, even though he may not be available to serve that position anymore, I think it's fully appropriate for you all to appoint someone who can meet that same vision that the voters put forth. Thank you. All right, thank you.
 Who else would like to address? Come on in. I'm Nathan Eikenberry, Ward 4. Well, I appreciate much of what the council does. I'm going to have to actually side with my current council member on this and request a vote. I got to vote previously. In a previous ward, I was able to vote for Adella Gray to put her on this council. But at this point, I'm going to have to disagree with calling for an appointment of this.
 three years is just too long for an appointed even though I do agree with this council on more occasions than I don't I still would like to have my choice and that is why I would advocate for a vote thank you who else would like to address us on this okay we'll bring it back to the council now council I do want I have been on this council a while myself now this is I'm counting right the fifth time
 we've come to this sort of thing. I've been, there was four times I was on the council. Two appointments came in year one. And one appointment came in a few years in March. Now, that was an election, wasn't it? That was a special election. So one special election, and I've seen three appointments. And tonight, we are going to choose whether we do an appointment or an election. Okay.
 Don was elected by special elections when you ran for city council, right? Council members... Council members are... One year we had a special election and then council member Trumbo lost his life in an automobile accident and we appointed him. So, you know, we're...
 I'm sorry, I just need to ask you a question. Sure. Do you recall or does anyone, the city attorney or Don, recall the length of time left on those three that were appointed? I believe Trance was over two years. And I'm, and again, we're talking 16 years ago, so.
 I don't remember, I haven't researched that, sorry. I know that when Randy Zercher left, that was about three years left on that one, if I remember correctly. Yeah, it was actually within the first six months of that time period, so it was, I served three years and six months of that term. But it was an election. And I know that Council Member Davis moved to a different ward and was appointed then.
 Yes, that's when Conrad Oden was appointed, and that was a fairly short appointment. So I've seen this. This is my fifth time to see this, and I've seen appointments, and I've seen special elections, and this is not an easy position for you to be in because, well, I'm here again, and we're all here again, but this is a tough decision. You have to use your conscience and think what you think is best for the city.
 But she thinks it's the right thing to do. There's not much other way around it. I've voted for appointments, and I've voted for special elections. So there you go. It's depending on the circumstances.
 adele well mayor i do think this is sort of a unique situation and i think the reason and i the city attorney can correct me but the law has been changed it used to be if a person if they were within two years then it was an appointment if it was over two years it was an election isn't that correct well at this point
 I think what it does, actually, if it's under one year, then it's automatically open for appointment. If it's beyond that, if it's more than one year, then it's your choice either to elect another council member out of your votes or to call a special election. So it's...
 And when I was on the council back in the 90s, we only had two-year terms, so we never had to worry about a really, really extended term. We always had appointments when we had people that left for one reason or another. But those were never, obviously, a three-year appointment. But I think, and I won't necessarily ask you all who've been through that, but best I recall from the history, I don't think that that was ever a bad thing.
 And I don't think an appointment tonight would be a bad thing because I think we have some folks who are have put their name out here who have
 um let it be known and have worked hard to make sure that we knew they were planning to run for ward four and have been preparing themselves by attending many council meetings and as well as serving in many other capacities so i i agree with miss phillips this is a unique situation thank you
 Judging from the amount of interest that we've had in this, not only are we looking at the election, but most likely we would be looking at a runoff. So it would be the cost of two elections, and that's what could bring it up to the $30,000 mark. I'm still thinking about this seriously. Whenever you talk about votes, I believe people voted, all of us, to be here. Someone voted.
 So there was voting involved, and there is a trust to all of us up here to do the best we can. So to be called immoral is pretty shocking to me. I don't think that is a valid characterization of anyone up here, anyone. So as we move forward, I guess we'll get more discussion, and I'll try to decide specifically how to handle this.
 Okay, John. I'm not gonna offend my position on the civil rights and the library. I could as Gray But I don't think that's very productive right now. We spent three hundred thousand dollars with the Kessler group out of Tampa Bay, Florida Helping us revamp our recycling program I have to believe that spending one-tenth of that thirty thousand dollars to guarantee the people of Ward for their right to vote is
 has to be more compelling than how we throw away our trash. I mean, the vote has to be more than trash. Surely we can agree on that, whether we're liberal or conservative, whether we're whatever. The vote is the fundamental part of our democracy. And Mr. Kenyon, yes, we were voted on into our position.
 But I'm not sure the people of Ward 4 want us to choose their representative, that they would rather choose them themselves. And that's what I'm trying to express here. Leave the people free to choose. You've heard me say that before in other situations. I voted for the budget tonight, even though it was increasing 5.1%. My view, the inflation rate's been 2%, so that's 3.1% above inflation. As government grows, liberty recedes. I believe that.
 and we're growing our government. So I don't like that, but I went along with it because Paul was telling us it's a bare-bones budget. I'll take him at his word. But I cannot abide taking the vote away from any ward, from any voter in Fayetteville. And I implore you, please, don't do this. Let's table it for two weeks. Let's wait so we can talk about it and have more consideration.
 The one thing that we cannot do tonight is table it. The statute clearly says that you shall make a decision. Now, you've got two decisions to make. One is electing an alderman from this group by just your votes, and the other option is to call a special election.
 But it says it shall be done in the first regular meeting after the vacancy occurs. Now, do I think that's a smart statute? I think that it would be a lot better if they gave us a little more time on that. But that is not what the legislature has done. They said this meeting. Well, then that being the case, city attorney, the only way to delay this and give us time to vet each candidate is to bring it to a public vote.
 And that way we can have the time we need to evaluate each candidate and have public debates by the candidates to see who's the better qualified. Just because we have a bunch of emails saying this man or this woman is qualified, that's not a true vetting. We have to realize that. And we don't have the ability, we don't have the wisdom to discern who is the best candidate. Only the voters can do that.
 We can't do that. We don't have that ability, no matter how smart we are. We have done it, though, John. I understand. I understand. But I'm imploring you, those were for shorter terms. Those worked for three years and some months terms. And I could go along with appointment, like council member tenant, if it's less than a year. I thought about that. I thought about how can we save the money.
 uh and we could do that and i'd be for you know me mayor i like saving money uh etc but i felt like the vote is such a compelling issue we shouldn't take the vote away from the people we should leave the people free to vote for themselves and that's what i'm asking you to do thank you okay mark again i'm still pondering this but i want to point out as i have a hundred times
 to conflate the general fund from a fund that's used over in our water, solid water, sewer and solid waste, which is an enterprise fund, is not a fair comparison. This is we're talking about using general funds here. And almost every argument, Mr. Latour, who is on water, sewer, solid waste committee, complates.
 and uses the same argument, and it's not the same thing. And I haven't made my decision yet. But let us not try to give a false dilemma in our arguments when we're trying to figure out something this important. Okay, thank you. Mayor, I think you won with about 70% of the vote in Ward 4. Can we just give you two votes? Kidding, of course. Okay.
 Well, I feel a little sick to my stomach about this one to be honest. I don't care about the cost of the election if we made the decision to be worth it. What I'm worried about is as the chair of the Transportation Committee and as somebody who sits up here and cast votes with the rest of the council, absences have been a tremendous
 and I can't assign a value to having the seat filled. I can assign a cost to the election, but I can't assign a cost to having an empty seat. I've had to explain to people who went out of their way to attend our committee meetings that we had to cancel the meeting because we didn't have a quorum after we had delayed it more than once
 up to six months of delays because we didn't have quorums when we needed to do when we needed to have discussions and decisions made and and that is what is weighing real heavily on me um and is what uh puts me a little bit more into the being willing to appoint camp i really want to lament the the state law um and complain about it and even whine about it a little bit but uh it is what it is
 and we're tasked with making the decision. I've never been one to really shy away from a decision. I think there's a cost to this. Either way, we do it. What I'm concerned about... Well, let me ask a parliamentary question. I can justify this for myself, making an appointment, if there's someone that is sufficiently qualified. And that's my primary concern, is...
 qualifications to conduct the nuts and bolts of the business so that business can proceed that's 90% of the work we do the social issues that we might take up or the other controversies we might take up whether there's owning or something else normally only amount to five or ten percent of the work we do even though they get 120 percent of the attention I don't think you know how banal
 So much of this work is until you sit through meeting after meeting, reviewing items that make most normal humans glaze over. And that work is still just as important. And we haven't been able to conduct it efficiently because of past absences. So it's a real concern of mine. I think it's a very substantial concern.
 So the parliamentary question I ask is if we reach a consensus to make an appointment tonight and then we hear from interested parties and we decide that there is not someone qualified in the room, can we make the other decision? Well, yes. You could because if you vote in favor of the motion that's on the floor and then you don't believe there's someone qualified that you can support,
 then you could move to reconsider. And it has to be someone that voted with the side that won would have to make that motion, then anybody else could vote. So you could pass this motion right now, and if you felt like there was not someone that you could support, then you could move to reconsider and then be up to the city council about whether or not they would pass your motion.
 Thank you, that's relieving in the most minor of ways. Well with that in mind, then I'll support going to the next level on the appointment track and hearing from people. And I'm committed to, I really resent that so many decisions, so many public decisions are reduced to popularity contests and not qualifications.
 I will be making every effort I can tonight to make a decision, make an assessment of qualifications to the exclusion of anything else. Justin? Oh, I'm sorry. Sarah and then Justin. Thank you. I've reviewed all the letters of intention that we've received and we've identified several very qualified applicants.
 And in thinking about who we might appoint, because I agree with Alderman Petty that qualifications are key. This isn't a popularity contest. Things that I would consider are community involvement. And quite a few of our applicants have been involved in our committee, so we've had the opportunity to be familiar with their work. Community engagement. You know, who's out there working in the community and familiar, especially with the issues that are so pertinent to Ward 4? Right.
 And then also identify someone who is ideologically similar to Alan Long, so that we're consistent with the will and intention of the voters, and we're appointing someone who's very similar to Alan, both in the way that he was responsive and engaged in the community and his ideological background. I'm concerned about...
 The president, it would set to send this to an election because he very well may not be the only council member that resigns during this term. And so then what would we do? Would we send another have another special election?
 And then also in particular having Ward 4 not represented right now, we're about to interview people for 21 boards and committees openings and Alan was on our nominating committee. And so that leaves the heavy work to be done by the remaining three members and Ward 4 will not have a voice in that decision.
 Allen was on the Environmental Action Committee. What's going to happen with no city council member spearheading that initiative and serving as liaison to bring their hard work to the council? I feel like that committee would lose a lot of momentum. He's on the Transportation Committee that's making very vital decisions right now. So we need Ward 4 represented. We can't afford to have another absent chair because we do have a lot of empty chairs.
 You know the the citizens you've elected us to take care of your business and to represent you and I think if we keep in mind You know appointing someone who's very similar to Alan so that we're not switching gears on work for that I think it's very appropriate for us to go ahead and appoint someone so that we can continue conducting the city's business Okay, just You're talking about the
 the law and this is a unique situation but i think it just happened up north
 And I think they voted for a special election. So they had to have followed the same state statute and made the same choice between those two, right? There's no other choices that they could have made. No, they're covered by exactly the same statute as us. So it was, again, up to their city council to determine whether they wanted to appoint through their own election or call for a special election. Okay. I think they voted unanimously to have a special election in March. But that's...
 That's neither here nor there. Really, again, this is nothing against some of these people. I think Council Member Kenyon said it. We've had a lot of interest. It was mentioned several other times. We've had a lot of interest. There's a lot of people. And in my looking through all these, I agree. There's a lot of community involvement. There's a lot of people that look qualified to do this. But I've hired and fired people.
 hundreds of people in my career and all the way from beginning hourly workers all the way to executive level. And I don't know that I've ever hired somebody from beginning to end of a process in one day.
 especially just somebody writing a letter of interest. So there's a lot of reasons here for me to want to send this to a special election. Again, that's because of all of these different factors and the fact that we only have two choices here. And neither one of them are perfect. A lot of our decisions up here,
 no matter what we do there's there's good and bad but in this in this particular situation I think the special election is warranted all right anybody else get any comments before we vote Sarah I would also note that Alan was our vice mayor and that position is currently unfilled I noticed when the mayor had to get up earlier the seat was left empty and I think that we need to have we need to have someone in that role mayor that will be on the next agenda okay John
 it may seem like a losing effort but i won't give up mr petty i'll be glad to fulfill alan's place on your transportation committee if you want what for representation i'll be glad to be there i'll be glad to fill in any committee appointment he had i'll be glad to vote can't guarantee i'll vote just like alan ms marsh
 But I'll certainly do my best to fulfill the duties of that committee. Thank you. Okay. Matthew. I just wanted to thank you. I had no doubt that you would do that. I wouldn't have any concern with that.
 that is specific to you more generally I don't think that any council member up here could fulfill the duties of serving on all of these committees and do it in a way that with the amount of attention that it demands. It's not enough to be there. These things each one of these committees requires quite a bit of work and I don't think
 Maybe you were volunteering to restructure all of your hours like that But I'm personally skeptical that even though on paper that looks it looked like it would work out in terms of filling seats I'm very skeptical that there's any person that could Give all of these committees the time they deserve. Okay, any other comments tonight? however, this goes I do have the confidence in this council to make a
 the right decision, I do have the confidence in this council. It does go to appointment to make the right appointment. We did when I was on the council. All right? So, any other comments? Sondra, would you please call the roll? Can I ask a question? Yep. So, a yes vote is to make an appointment of some sort. Yes. No vote is to go to a special election or just...
 Well, yeah, just not to make the appointment. So that would be going to the special election. And how many? Does it take five? No, it takes four votes for this. There are seven. This is an internal motion. It's not a resolution or ordinance. So it is an internal motion, like a motion to table. And so it requires four out of the seven. Now, when we get, if for both the calling the special election or selecting a member, that's a resolution motion.
 And that resolution will require five affirmative votes. We'll have a special moment. All right. I'm having one of those evenings. All right.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. No. Mature. No. Wright. Yes. Warren. Yes. So with four votes, that motion passes. Okay. And at this point, you're looking at at least potentially to appoint someone through your election. Okay. Okay. Well, since we're going to go down this road.
 I think we need to hear from everybody that's interested in the position. Now what I propose is we give everybody the five minutes that we do for public comment, if you all are agreeable to that, and then that's all the time you get. And I would like to hear from all the applicants. What about a time of asking them questions, though?
 Well, there is certainly nothing in the statute to tell you how to do this. So it's really up to your discretion on how to do it, and it's been done in many different ways through different appointments. Well, let's do it this way, if it's all right with you all. We'll do the five-minute limit, and then if you've got questions for them, we'll even stay at the podium for questions from you all. Sound fair? No? Yes? As I thought, that's what we will do. All right. All right.
 So who would like to be first? Well, I think we need to wait for Council Member Petty to return. I want everybody here to hear everybody. And I assume what you're doing is you're only the people that are applying to be appointed. I'd like to hear from them first. Boy, that's getting serious. It's always time. Okay. You're very welcome.
 I wanted everybody here when we heard from everybody. All right. The first, who'd like to be first? Who's interested in Ward 4, Position 2? Please give us your name and address. Well, Mayor, I'm back. I'm Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. When I first started speaking at this podium, I used to introduce myself every time, and I quit doing that. But tonight, it's probably appropriate.
 I'm a school teacher, I'm a community advocate, a do-it-yourself hobbyist, an occasional gardener, and a Star Trek nut. I'm a graduate of Fayetteville High School and of the University of Arkansas. The public will most readily recognize me for my involvement writing and passing the Civil Rights Ordinance, but here at City Hall you all know me as a frequent citizen participant in these meetings. I've spent many hours here with you over the last three years attending the City Council meetings' agenda sessions.
 I was even at Saturday morning's budget session just for the fun of it. I haven't kept strict attendance records, but I'd estimate I've been to between 25 and 30 meetings in the last couple years. I think that's about half of the regular city council meetings. I do this so that I can stay engaged in the issues that are happening in our community. I do that because that's my passion.
 I'm also at the end of a three-year term on the Environmental Action Committee, where I've learned a lot about the inner workings of several of the essential city services that we, where we interact with citizens. I understand the commitment that's involved in municipal service, and I believe I've demonstrated the willingness to prioritize my time to meet that commitment. Just over a year ago, as I said before, the voters had a choice between two candidates and two visions for Fayetteville.
 I supported Alan Long's candidacy then because I believed in what he stood for and what the voters ultimately supported. I think I would be a smooth transition for the priorities that voters are accustomed to having represented from the fourth seat on the council here.
 The replacement you choose tonight needs to be ready to hit the ground running. There's several strong candidates probably coming up behind me here, some of whom I consider friends and I respectfully submit myself as the one that's the most prepared and qualified here tonight. You don't have to rely on the emails you received because I've been here speaking at this podium on a frequent basis for the last three years.
 Although I will say I haven't said about half of what I've been thinking and maybe that in itself should be a qualification. I understand the current issues in Fayetteville. I know the needs of Ward 4. I'm ready to get to work and I'm ready to do it tonight. Thank you. If you have any questions. Yes, what questions do we have? How long, Kyle, have you lived in the ward?
 I moved to Fayetteville in 98 for my senior year in high school. I went away to college in upstate New York. I may have shared this story before, but when I was getting ready to move, my grandpa said, you're going to go find a big city, you're never going to want to come back here. But like happens to a lot of people, it didn't take me long for Fayetteville to latch on and drag me back. So I came back to grad school and I've been here ever since.
 Oh, I'm sorry, John. John has a question. Can you come? Yes, sir. Hi, Mr. Smith. Are you aware that Mr. Long used your address for his in-ward address while he was living outside of the ward? Yes, I am. Thank you. May I ask what relevance you think that holds? I refuse to answer, but you'll probably be contacted by law enforcement officials. Thank you. All right.
 i had a question as well mayor yes certainly i'm sorry you all gonna have to kind of stop me here i'm taking notes and i'm trying to kyle um i know that you've served on the environmental action committee what um of all the things that you've done on that committee what do you consider your proudest accomplishment of that committee since you've served um i honestly what i would say from my three years of experience there um
 The thing I've taken away from it most is the frustration of some of our city commissions to have a lot of passion and not a lot of, I would say, power or teeth. Those are the words that we throw around at that meeting a lot. We want to have more influence and policy at that level than we're able to. So we talk a lot and we have some really good discussions that don't always leave that room.
 We have had input on the recycling plan, on the energy plan that's coming up. And so participating in those discussions, I think, has been a valuable experience. Thank you. Thank you. I have one. Yes, Matthew. I'm going to quit turning around. Yeah, just stay with us. I just wanted to answer a simple question, which is why do you want to be on the council? I love the city. I get that that's the mayor's tagline, but I'm going to borrow it today.
 This is home. I have 15 extended family members in eight different neighborhoods all on the west side of the interstate in Ward 4. I'm connected, I'm rooted here. I have no intention of leaving. My car won't even take me more than 100 miles from here. So I'll be back for city council meetings after work, I promise. I find this work interesting. I'm very excited
 I know you talked about how banal much of the work that happens here is, but some of us nerds kind of like that stuff. So I do find that compelling to deal with the nuts and bolts of how our community runs on a daily basis. One more question, Kyle. If you had three things that you had to pick as important to you to make a city function well, what would they be?
 I'd say we have to take care of the city employees because they're the ones that do the functioning work We have to make sure that they have minimum standards of livable wages take care of their their health and safety on the job and Make it a pleasant experience so that they want to come to work the city every day and so we have to manage our growth and development I know that I
 I live around the Mount Comfort area and conversations with neighbors, we don't want to see Mount Comfort turn into another Weddington, we don't want to see Weddington turn into another North College. So I think making sure that our development happens with consideration of residents' current and future and make sure that we keep our spaces open.
 livable and unified. I think that's important to the area of town that's growing very rapidly and Third I guess I'd say we have to watch out for the the future issues plan ahead whether it's
 environmental impacts and the effects of climate change or economic impacts and how our budget holds up the next time the market takes a nosedive. We've got to make sure that we are keeping our current policies on a stable footing for whatever the future may provide us. Thank you. All right, which applicant would like to speak next?
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor, Council. My name is J.O. Jennings and I reside at 4198 West Bradstreet Lane and I'm addressing the council this evening to make known my interest in filling the recently vacated ward for position on the City Council. I graduated from the University of Arkansas with a bachelor's in political science as well as a master's in recreation and sports management.
 Currently, I am the Assistant Director of Retention at the University of Arkansas in the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics. I also manage the entire defense and special teams for the Razorback football team and the Razorback men's tennis team. My primary function in both positions is to graduate student athletes and foster academic success.
 In addition to my career, I serve the Fayetteville community as a board member of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. I began my three-year term on this board in January of 2016. Additionally, I serve on the Botanical Gardens of the Ozarks Board of Directors. My work with the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board has helped the Parks Department protect green space and funding to improve parks across each quadrant of the city through the land dedication ordinance.
 As a husband and a father, I want to fill this vacancy to keep Fayetteville a safe place to raise a family and a great community to live for all residents. More specifically, I want to improve the quality of life of the residents in Ward 4, protect the green space in Ward 4, and add diversity to the City Council so that this Council can better represent the growing diversity of our great city.
 If given the opportunity, I will work tirelessly to be accessible to Ward 4 residents while representing their interests on this council. And for these reasons, I feel like I'm the best choice for you to make this evening. Okay. What questions do we have? Adele.
 Yes, Mr. Jenkins, have you ever attended a council meeting? Yes, ma'am, I have attended council meetings in the past. Okay, and what impressed you about those meetings? The meeting, what impressed me about the meeting is the interest that the citizens of Fayetteville show in the operations of the city.
 and just the type of passion even displayed today just with each issue before the city council. And how long have you lived in Fayetteville? I've lived in Fayetteville on and off for over 20 years. I started school at the university in 1996. I had a brief stint where I lived in Chicago, and I had a couple of months where I lived in Benton County. But for the most part, I've spent that 20 years in Fayetteville. Thank you.
 John. Mr. Jenkins, you're aware that these proceedings are broadcast on television? Yes, sir. Are you also aware they're broadcast over the Internet? Yes, sir. So you don't have to be at a city council meeting to know what business we're discussing and the interplay between the members of the council, correct? I don't believe I represented that. Right, you didn't. I was just making the point. Thank you. You don't have to be here to see what goes on. Thank you, and thank you for stepping forward. Thank you.
 Yes, Mr. Jennings. Thank you for your service on our Parks and Rec Board. Can you talk about during that time that you've served, what is your most proud accomplishment? When I first came on the board, the regional park opened a few months after I first joined the board, and I'm very proud.
 to have been on the back end of that. But I think the most important thing and the most thing that I'm proudest of in serving on our board is having the ability to vote to secure green space and protect it for our city and also to vote to,
 have money from developers to improve our park systems across each quadrant. And I believe in my master's program we learned that parks are very important to the fabric of a city and ways to keep down juvenile problems and giving children and kids a safe place to go
 to go and recreate i think is important as well for adults um i think it's important that and that's one of the great things about our city that our trail system is is so extensive and it allows folks of all ages and abilities to get out and be active and and it makes for a healthy city and i'm proud that i'm i've been able to um to help in that effort and um you know if this doesn't go my way i'll be happy to continue uh doing the work on that board
 Thank you. And then one final question. One of the issues that Alderman Latour, or I'm sorry, that Alderman Long struggled with was his job required a lot of travel and he was unable to attend a lot of the committee meetings. With your position in the athletics department, how does that affect your availability and your potential to attend a lot of meetings?
 That wouldn't affect my availability. In my position, I'm in the academics portion of it, so my travel is very limited. As far as my responsibilities with the football team, I'll travel to maybe two away games a year. Those travel dates are on Friday evening, and I'm back Saturday evening.
 As far as my other responsibilities, this would definitely take priority over that as they're a little more flexible and I can kind of schedule things around meetings and such. Thank you. Tell me what you think the most pressing issue for the city is. I think continuing to develop our infrastructure, especially on the west side of town is a pressing issue.
 With the congestion on Weddington and areas over on the west side, I feel like infrastructure will be, is a pressing issue in Fayetteville. And you specifically mean congestion?
 I'm sorry? Do you specifically mean congestion and transportation? Yeah, I think so. I think trying to ease some of the congestion with redirecting traffic, building roads to divert the traffic to other roads that aren't used as much could help with that congestion. Any other questions?
 I would like to know your top three. I'll ask you the same question, your top three. The first one I just mentioned is infrastructure. I also think to protect the environment and the green space and then to properly manage the budget. Okay, thank you.
 Again, my name is Andrew Miles, 1884 North Caton, that's C-A-T-O-N, Drive. I echo the sentiments of the previous two candidates, if you will. We all here love our ward and our city. I'm a resident of Fayetteville for a little over 11 years since I came up here for my undergraduate studies. I have a degree in political science as well, undergrad, and a master's in business administration, both from the U of A.
 I'm an entrepreneur. I am a startup founder in two businesses. I'm currently the managing member of one, growing that enterprise level business.
 I also serve on the Environmental Action Committee as Kyle does. I'm the current vice chair and have been for the last two years. And I'll leave a lot of questions up, but just to kind of consolidate time, I'll try to answer some of the questions that you've already asked other candidates. My biggest or proudest accomplishment on the EAC, Alderman Marsh, is being a part of the Stakeholders Committee for Riding the Invasive Species bill two years ago.
 as well as some of the early foundational survey work with Kessler Consulting when they came, and the studies at the waste sites and the public input sessions.
 talking about why I would want to be on the council, Alderman Petty. I've always kind of believed as a student of political science and public policy and a student of history that the office should call the candidate and not the other way around. And until yesterday I had no intentions of running for office in the immediate future.
 However, as friends of mine in the area and those that have recently moved away saw the article on the flyer and the memo from City Attorney Williams related to how the procedures were going to go down this evening or a possible special election, I did receive quite a few texts and emails from friends urging me to put my name forward and is why I'm here today.
 this evening. Mayor Jordan, the three things, the three topics that I would be most passionate about, no particular order, combating sprawl with infill development.
 The transportation issue, particularly within Ward 4, the trip station infrastructure, particularly along the Weddington Corridor, I think we all know the issues there. And I will again echo the sentiments that Kyle mentioned. I as well live on the Mount Comfort Corridor and so are the preferences of a lot of the citizens that live in that corridor for not increasing congestion. I echo that as well.
 And my last one, and maybe the most important, would be my support for the economic development of our community. I think the recently created position of Devin Howland's Economic Vitality Director is vital to our community. I believe in diversifying the ecosystem of our economy, not just in Fayetteville, but as it relates to the Northwest Arkansas community at large and regionally within our nation is key to diversifying our economies of scale within a myriad of industries.
 And I would like to sit in that seat and represent my constituents in Ward 4 to achieve those goals and along with the stated goals of the 2030 plan. And the last two minutes and any other time, I'll be happy to answer any further questions.
 I'd like to know more about your business enterprises. Yes, so I recently, about a year ago, left my position as the general manager of the green cab company when its ownership changed. Last year I had done that for about five years.
 along with one of the co-founders. And just before that and since, I have started an e-commerce venture, a retail e-commerce venture, that sells some products from a local inventor. And then my main venture that I'm, my day-to-day job is, I'm the co-founder and CEO of Grox Industries, which is a nanotechnology startup that was spun out of the Walton College and the nanotechnology and chemistry departments at U of A. And we make nano,
 surface coatings and so we're bringing products to market in that light. Thank you. Sure. As an entrepreneur myself, I often struggle to balance the workload between running a small business and being part of the council. Can you talk about how you would handle that? I don't think it would change any that I've been doing over the last five years.
 2011, end of 2011, I went to my first committee meeting. It was a water and sewer committee meeting and Alderman Kenyon actually inspired me to run for multiple committees. I ended up getting appointed to the Environmental Action Committee and so kind of grown a passion for committee involvement or board involvement in that light and I've been to numerous council meetings, agenda sessions.
 in the last five and a half, six years, and I don't anticipate my schedules or conflicts. I guess I would have to give up Tuesday's softball, so I'll just tell my team that I can only do Mondays and Wednesdays, but other than that, I think I'll be all right. Thank you. Any other questions? I'm curious about your, how you would do that, what's your vision for economic development?
 I would like to diversify or encourage the diversification of our industrial sector in a more modern sense not just legacy Manufacturing but more advanced and automated manufacturing not in the sense of taking jobs away But adding companies that have more high-tech manufacturing to Fayetteville I think we have a lot of space and usable land in South Fayetteville for that aspect as well the technology park in conjunction with the
 the university down there at Research Center Boulevard. I would like to see that expanded in our tech and digital and IT sectors. I would hope that we can bridge some sort of public-private partnerships within the city or the state as far as venture or angel financing for startups in general so that we can encourage more development and not just development, but for companies to stay. One of the major problems we have with very successful new companies is that
 once they get started and become popular, they get acquired and move as evidenced by the recent acquisition of Mainland and their movement to Louisville. Thank you. Thank you very much. Oh, hang on.
 Sarah, you have some more questions. Oh, sorry. Oh, Adele. Yes. Mr. Miles, how long have you been in Fayetteville? Just over 11 years. I moved up here in 2006, the start of my undergrad year. And apart from a summer abroad in the UK, the following year I've been up here continuously. Thank you.
 And you did college here and then have been here since, right? Yes, yes. Well, as well, in 2010 and 11, I joined the Army Reserves, and I did a seven-month stretch in basic training and advanced training, but I've been primarily based here since. Thank you. John? Sure.
 Can I get my two cents in? Nope. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you for being an entrepreneur. Thank you for sticking your neck out, taking a risk. Good. Do you plan to go public with your company and move to New York maybe? Dallas?
 Well, if I did, it would be at a minimum of three years with SEC requirements. We'd have to have at least a million dollars of recurring revenue for three straight years. And I don't see that happening at least until 2021 as early. So I wouldn't worry about that for at least four years for me. But no, I actually don't believe in public companies. From a personal standpoint, I'd rather remain private, maintain control, and not have to deal with quarterly shareholders. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. All right.
 I live at 4446 West Loftywood Drive here in Fifth Arkansas. I prepared something here so I'm going to read that so I can get all my points and then
 Getting to that right now. Yes, sir. Mm-hmm. It's my privilege and privilege to address you this evening. Excuse me. I'm Spencer T. Brown. Could you give us your name, please? Yeah. I'm Spencer T. Brown. Spencer, thank you. Mm-hmm. It would be an honor to serve on the Fayetteville City Council. It is a strong belief of mine that you must have a servant's heart to work for the people. I believe that my previous service to the community demonstrates this mindset. If I'm appointed by the council and given the opportunity to serve my community,
 More publicly, I pledge that I will do all that I can to guarantee Fayetteville's continued growth, excuse me, continued growth is done the Fayetteville way. I will endeavor to make decisions that are fiscally responsible and have the people of the Fayetteville's interests first. As a long-term resident of this community, a husband, a father of three children in the Fayetteville school district, my devotion runs deep for Fayetteville and I have a passion to continue this work.
 Making our fit our favorite better place to work to live and to enjoy with our families I'm a native of Morton, Arkansas. I came to University of Arkansas. I received my Bachelor of Arts degree Instance in criminal justice. I'm a former police officer a Fayetteville Fayetteville and it's good to see you again kid. It was in the 90s when I served here I've served over ten years in pharmaceutical sales and I'm currently director of the Mercy Wound Care Center in Rogers, Arkansas. I
 When I came to the University in 1991, I came here to first and foremost to get a degree. I also came here to play for the University of Arkansas football team. During that time, I was fortunate enough to be a part of the SEC West's first division championship. I'm also blessed to be married to the wonderful and beautiful Ashley Glass Brown. We have four children, Spencer, a sophomore at Lyons College, Xavier, and Whitney,
 Jordan who are all at Owl Creek that attend the Fayetteville school district. Some of my community involvement. I'm the president of helping children's learn which we established here in Fayetteville. We give out numerous scholarships to individuals in the Fayetteville community. I'm the director of the Arkansas Hawks and on the board of the, on that board, excuse me, if you don't know the Arkansas Hawks is it's a basketball youth organization. We help young men
 Throughout this state who to get scholarships to go I don't play basketball to improve their lives and the past board member of the Yvonne Richardson Center past member of the Hall of Honor Board of Directors and advisory board of the Razorback Foundation Also a member of Hill City and Sonic Lodge Remember the Razorback a club password of the else Club early in WCP I've participated in watchdog program and also I volunteer for the M&M Augustine Foundation and
 helping in several different capacities as far as serving the community with food drives and whatnot. Some of the issues mayor that I that I've just noted here are
 before i even get to my issues my first would be to talk to the members of ward four that are here present and they're out in in the community just to see what their concerns are i think it's important that i not come here with my agenda but you know what they want because like i said earlier it is about being a servant of the community that's what i've always done in my time but some of my deals that i come here with is to make sure we keep fedville unique
 by making sure we grow in a manner that is that the city can handle in a responsible way make sure our classroom sizes i know that's a little different but make sure our classroom sizes are keeping up with the area growth so our youth can continue to provide can be provided with the best education possible and teachers are not overwhelmed with students i need to say my wife is a educator as well yes sir five minutes oh okay so
 i'll stop there okay what questions do we have mr bryant well mr brown give me your top three
 Well, what I was saying there would be of course to make sure a field whose growth is unique and it's done in a Responsible way continue to watch and improve infrastructure throughout the city. Make sure we're keeping up. I heard some other ones talk other Applicants talk about the infrastructure in our side of town is very congested at times So make sure we keep up with that and then of course, you know I
 the Fed built ways to make sure our parks and make sure our green space is preserved and that we are growing financially, fiscally responsible so we can make sure that we are leaving something for our children to admire. Okay, thank you. Sarah? Thank you. You mentioned that you had served on the board of Yvonne Richardson Center. Absolutely.
 Can you talk to me about what was your proudest accomplishment while serving on that board? Well, we had several accomplishments. It's a humbling experience to serve that board because it's not a lot. When I got on that board, the board was really funding the whole center. Everything that was done there was done by the board. Money raised, everything. So we were fortunate enough as a board to bring on, I think Connie's still here, the Department of Recreation's
 department to help that board. I think by doing that it's really improved the University Center and it's established a better means for those children in that community to be to be served. And then also you mentioned that you're director of the Mercy Wound Center? Yes.
 How will you balance that career with the incredible demands of city council? Oh, it wouldn't be a problem at all. I can, my time is my time. I can make my hours, and if I want to be somewhere, I can be there. Okay, so you're not on a call. No, I'm not locked into that, yes. Thank you. Thank you.
 With infrastructure and spending decisions, we have to take a triage approach because the wish list is so much longer than the resources. Can you tell us? I couldn't. What did you say? The what list? I'm sorry. We have to take a triage approach to the way we fund needs because the list of needs is so much longer than the resources that are available, much like a clinic.
 um you and several other people have mentioned uh the infrastructure on the west side absolutely which we all understand is a problem but can you characterize a little bit more what your approach would be to making those harder decisions when we don't have enough resources to solve them all absolutely and that's why it's so important for i feel for us to feel this position and i do also believe in the voting process and i'm not i'm going to get to your point but the point of matter is
 to be there on that committee to make sure that the voice for Ward 4 is being heard and what's going on there is being heard so you as a committee or as a council knows what's going on in that ward as well as the others. Now, to answer your question, everything is done by process, in my opinion. You have to sit back and have a way to meet of what this individual ward is having today or what's happening here, find out which one is the most intimate place
 needs the most intimate response and you go and you take on that that task i'm a very i'm a person that believes in pushing uh getting what you need but you also need to listen and find out what is the most important need and then you go to that you take care of that that that um situation first anything else all right thank you thank you you
 who would like to address this next good evening mr mayor ladies and gentlemen of the council my name is mike emery i live at 2598 north indian oaks over in cliver creek i've been a resident of fayetteville for 11 years 10 of those in ward 4 itself i uh i currently serve on several city committees as well as county committees
 I have been on the Environmental Action Committee and the Housing Authority Board of Commissioners since 2012. I currently serve as chair of both of those. I also currently serve as chairman of the Washington County Animal Concerns Advisory Board and as just a member on the Federal Police Department Community Advisory Committee. I have a long history of service to animals.
 community I've been around. I did 10 years active duty in the Air Force, went to Desert Storm, did Bosnian-Somalia operations. When this seat came up, it was a surprise, I think to say the least, especially to me. I hadn't thought anything about ever running for it again. As you know, I ran against Alan when he first went for this seat, losing by only about 100 votes in a very
 very heavy race at that point. So to address Mr. LaTorre's concerns about Ward 4 voting, I do have pretty much the same kind of voter mandate that Alan had when he came to the council. But also to address your concerns about, everyone's concerns about costs of an election as opposed to doing an appointment. I brought my name forth to do this with the intention of only filling out the remainder of this term.
 would not seek an election after that. I thought that would give good candidates time to prepare for the proper election when it comes around in 2020, and also at the same time save the city the cost of the special election. So I'm going into this without the intention of rerunning and staying on. I just want to finish that space, fill the seat for a while, help Ward 4 out in the meantime with the infrastructure and the other issues that they do have out there.
 That is my primary focus on doing this. It's my parents instilled in me growing up a sense of serving and helping people when you can. I haven't always been able to do that given the situation I was in at the time, but I still try to find a way to do what I can. Serving on four boards at one time while working full-time is a big commitment, so I think I could do the commitment of working full-time while serving on City Council.
 As far as my employment, I work at the University of Arkansas. My employers, the people I work with in my office, they are favorable to community involvement of our staff. In fact, my boss actually sits on the Town and Gown Committee. So I think I'm very qualified to do this. I would look forward to working beside all of you. I know there's been differences among some of us in the past on other issues on some of my committees,
 but that goes along with this territory and if y'all who have been on this council for any sort of time i'm sure you all haven't agreed on everything all the time but you get past it move forward and work together okay all right um mike what's your top what's your top three for the city or for the ward i mean they're pretty much interchangeable i guess
 First and foremost would be finances. Everybody has to have finances and proper use of the taxpayer funds. Secondly would be probably infrastructure like other people have said. I had some people approach me just today about flooding, especially in Ward 4. For example, this past May, granted this was an extraordinary rain event, but
 I don't live anywhere near a flood zone, and I was actually flooded into my neighborhood. We couldn't get in and out for a while. So looking at our flood control situation throughout the whole city as well as Ward 4 would be in there as well. And along with kind of going hand in hand with the Environmental Action Committee work would be the Enduring Green Network and improving our trash collection and recycling programs. So I think that will help not only Ward 4 but the city as a whole.
 okay who else has questions sarah thank you um mr emory can you tell us i know you serve on the the fayetteville housing authority what is your proudest accomplishment on that board that comes day to day just helping people get into housing affordable housing it's no secret that some of the facilities we have are not up to par and we are constantly working to improve those even with dwindling budgets coming down from the federal level
 I have many people who I consider friends who are actually residents of ours. Nothing gives me greater pleasure than them just saying thank you, which I do get quite often for even just little things. So I understand where they come from, and it makes me very happy to help them out in any way that I can. Any other questions? Thank you. Thank you all for your consideration.
 Who would like to be next? Theresa. Hi, good evening. I'm Theresa Turk. My address is 1408 West Cleveland. I have been a resident of Ward 4 for the last 12, 13, well actually for a total of 12 years. I first came here in 1979, a long time ago, to attend the University of Arkansas. I played on a, I'm going to go with the sports theme since other people did. I actually was a scholar on the tennis team.
 And I graduated with a degree, a Bachelor of Science in Zoology, then I continued on, got a Master's Degree in Anthropology, and then I actually left the city. I went off and moved away to Seattle, pursued a professional job in fisheries, and then I got a Master's Degree in Fisheries Science from the University of Washington. Okay.
 So, a long time goes by. I come back here five years ago because I traveled extensively in my job and also for vacations. I lived in Seattle, Washington, D.C., and actually out in the Aleutian Islands for a while. But I always compared Fayetteville to wherever I was living or traveling.
 And no place was better than this place. And so that is why I returned back here. And that is why I've also served on several committees. I've been on the Historic District Commission since 2013 and the Civil Rights Commission for the last two years. And I also feel that I'm very connected to my community, to University Heights.
 Now I know that's only one section of Ward 4, but I'm intimately involved in that area of Ward 4. I've been the treasurer and I guess you would say the general organizer in that district for quite a while.
 The other thing that I, so I moved back here. I have a small environmental firm. That's what I do to make a living. And I've also been engaged in working to protect the Buffalo National River. I serve as the science advisor for the Buffalo River Watershed Alliance.
 And so that does take up quite a bit of my time. However, if selected, I would spend a great deal of time getting up to speed. I'm familiar with most of the issues that are before the City Council, but there's certainly a lot more in-depth review that I would have to go through.
 I would also go out to other areas of Ward 4 that are not close to where I live and meet and talk to those residents much more so than I have in the past. And one thing I really want to say is...
 I worked for Alan Long's campaign a couple of years ago or last year. His values, his vision are very similar to mine. He and I talked frequently about historic preservation. Historic preservation would probably be my number one issue in terms of we've had a lot of demolition recently in Washington Willow. The Historic District Commission has been talking about that quite a bit. That would probably be my top issue.
 My second one would be alleviating congestion, some of the infrastructure issues that other applicants have talked about. And the third issue would probably be trying to balance the growth of the university with preservation of the neighborhoods. We have, you know, everybody wants to live in Fayetteville. There's a lot of competition for different interests. And what I would like to do is preserve...
 the really great way of life that we have here and And not be overrun not have the city changed by huge amounts of people coming in and a huge amount of development I believe we can balance Development and growth with the preservation of our culture here. Thank you Okay, questions we have, Sarah
 Thank you. Ms. Turk, can you talk about what is your proudest accomplishment during your service on the Historic District Commission?
 Thank you. Well, I would say my proudest accomplishment so far is the Meadows Street District. So we've been very fortunate in receiving grants and so right now we have a company that's been hired to go out and actually survey the Meadows Street Historic District and so we'll be moving in terms of putting that area on the National Register of Historic Places.
 I will say that we're underway with the University Heights Historic District. We've been working with the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program, and so that's also ongoing. But we're making these historic districts take actually a long time. There's a lot of steps you have to go through. It's a long timeline, but we're making progress. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for your interest. Thank you.
 If Northwest Arkansas were to grow at the same rate we grew during the bottom of the reception, we need to add 35,000 new dwelling units to the two-county area by 2030. If we grow at the rate that we grew prior to the recession, we need to add 175,000 dwelling units to the two-county area in the same time period. Most people, whenever they hear that, they split the difference, and the difference is 90,000 dwelling units between now and 2030 for both counties. Fayetteville's share of that runs roughly about a quarter.
 So figure 20 plus thousand dwelling units in Fayetteville between now and 2030 to avoid an affordability crisis. Where do you put them? Well, that's a really great question. I think you'll need to spread them.
 There will be some sprawl, absolutely, but we're doing a lot of infilling as I see every day. I believe that we'll need to make allotments for green space, and we need to start expanding our trails. Our trail systems are terrific, but that's another way to have that livability with that kind of expansion. So...
 I would not target them in one particular area. I would actually spread those 20,000 units around town. Infill would be my first priority. But I would want that infill to be compatible with the neighborhood. Can you elaborate a little bit about what compatibility means to you?
 Sure. Well, every neighborhood sort of has its own character. It has its own age. A lot of times it's a mixed use or mixed style area. But if there is a neighborhood that has a particular time period, I would advocate for building houses that retain that time period, that style. Okay. Thank you.
 So what does the successful integration of student housing look like in the University Heights neighborhood? Great question.
 I would say not huge dorms like that were going to be proposed on Cleveland Street. That area was going to be just a huge dark shadow and really compact and not very, and not compatible in my opinion with the neighborhood. So I would actually advocate smaller housing units, smaller dwellings, maybe 10 or 20 maximum apartments that are there.
 Again, something more compatible with the single family neighborhood that is around in University Heights. Other areas around the university are different, where they have more large apartment buildings. And so I would say that would be more compatible there. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. All right. Who would like to address this next?
 Good evening, Mayor Jordan and council members. Thank you for your time and spending your time this Tuesday evening going through this process. I do believe in a special election so that the members of Board 4 do have an option to vote for their new member. That's been decided. Right. But, oh, by the way, my name is Brian Isham. It's I-S-H-A-M, and it's Brian with an I. And I live at 4209 West Marlow Lane, West...
 I've been a resident of Fayetteville since 2014 when I moved down here to attend the University of Arkansas. I recently graduated with a double major in accounting and personal financial management. This opening was news to me, and I was planning on running against Long or seeking a seat on the council in three years when that came open. So my timing has been shoved way up.
 I did recently graduate and so in that time I haven't had a whole lot of time to be a part of This community and in Fayetteville and on committee members or committee boards However, while I was in university, I was a member of my fraternity I was on our executive board for two years and then immediately after I graduated our alumni board who manages our house moved me the two months after I graduated on to their board and
 board of directors for the Alumni Association who manages the local chapter. That's the fastest turnaround anybody in our fraternity has had, since that I know of, as far as going from an active member to a board member of the association.
 In my spare time, I do lead a leadership group of young men, developing them into the next generation of leaders because I believe it is our job as leaders to develop the next group that's coming behind us so that we know that we're leaving the right legacy. We're not just leaving it open. That's my passion and that's what I do in my spare time, along with part being a member of the association board. My three things for you, Mayor Jordan, are the citizens of Ward 4,
 If it's not for the citizens, then we don't have a city. We have to look out for our citizens first to make sure that they're happy and that they want to remain citizens. Our second priority should be the budget and our spending of their taxpayer dollars because I know that I work hard for my money and I know that I pay a lot of taxes to the federal government, local, city taxes, everything. And I want to make sure that that money is spent correctly and in good faith.
 And then third, my third priority is the future. As I've mentioned before, if we want Fayetteville to grow and be able to develop those 90,000 residential units over the next, to 2030, over the next 12 years roughly, then we've got to be actively pursuing the future generations.
 We've got to be going after those college students who come here and fall in love with the University of Arkansas and ask them to stay and make them want to stay in Fayetteville instead of moving to Bentonville, Rogers, all the northern counties. Because without them, then Fayetteville will slowly dwindle in population and then we've now reduced our city. Those are my three main categories as far as priorities. What questions do we have? Yeah.
 Sarah. Mr. Isham, you mentioned that you have a leadership group that's focused on turning young men into leaders. Correct. It's taking gentlemen who are in undergraduate classes right now and taking them and turning them out of
 focusing on themselves and turning them into leaders so changing their mindset to hopefully develop them into be the next generation of leaders either for the university of arkansas or for the city of fayetteville to kind of build them up and this is a men's group correct why do you exclude women from your leadership group i since i'm a single man it was it was a little bit more unique to add women to that just because it would have been a little bit different dynamic
 I'm not opposed to that. It's just that's what I was comfortable with at the moment. Thank you Any other questions? Thank you. Thank you. All right, who else would like to address us? Okay, that concludes our applicants Is there any other public comment on anything on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council Okay, who'd like to start? I have a question. Sure By my count we heard from one
 seven people tonight we have a few people that weren't here presently that submitted letters of interest this is parliamentary question is it up to us to name a name or we limited in who we can name in any way other than the residency requirement I think that you could appoint someone who would either write you a letter or show up tonight
 I have another procedural question. Okay, so if someone suggested a person, and that's what you're saying we have to do, is suggest a person and a motion, a resolution...
 You could just speak about people or whatever you wanted to. If someone had support for a particular person, then they could speak about accepting that particular person as the person to be elected. Eventually, you would have to get support of five people, including the mayor, to pass a resolution to actually elect that person.
 And really, there's no There's no right now. When I was on the council, occasionally we would go back and do the audit room and discuss among ourselves what we think. They sit them out and get their consensus and that's going out the other hand. There are plenty of people out here, and when I was on the council one time, that's what we did. We just listened to the people that had applied, asked them questions, and then we voted. So, uh,
 There's no set procedure. It's what you're pleased to do. Let's see, Sarah, I believe you're next. Thank you. We've heard from quite a few really excellent candidates tonight, I think many of which would be good representatives of Ward 4. What I think it comes down to for me, what separates some candidates from the other is it's the ones that I see at meetings.
 that show up, that pay attention, that engage with the community. And I think we've seen that in particular with Kyle Smith, who was the only citizen that attended our 8 a.m. Saturday budget meeting and has been here night after night with us and paying attention to what is going on in the community.
 So with that, I would like to nominate Kyle Smith for the board for position. Okay, I guess we need a second on that. Adele? I would like to second that motion and I can tell you why I want to second that motion. I agree with everything that Councilmember Marsh has said.
 I do think we've had some excellent excellent candidates and I as we often say at nominating committee if you're not chosen tonight I do hope that you will come back and make your yourself known again because I've been delighted to meet some folks that I had no idea would be good word for
 alderman. However, I know Kyle Smith quite well because I've worked with him very closely on the civil rights ordinance and
 Also, we've seen him here at our meetings consistently for the last several years. And so I think that he certainly could hit the ground running and would know exactly how to fit in with the council. There would not be any surprises, I don't believe. So I feel that Kyle Smith would make an excellent alderman for Ward 4. Thank you. Okay, well.
 I just have a question. And I would like to say that there's been a lot of great people stepping up tonight to make their interest known. So thank you all for doing that. That's not easy. My question is, what if multiple names are nominated and what if none get five votes?
 Eventually, someone needs to get five votes. And there could be multiple names nominated. And I think the original votes are going to be what they would call test votes. That's what they do up in Congress sometimes when they are trying to see whether something's going to be able to pass or not. And so eventually, it has to get where there would be five people supporting one person in order to pass the resolution.
 to, in fact, elect that person and appoint them to the council. This is probably not a bad way to start, and certainly someone else could present another name if they wanted to. And eventually we need to get down to some sort of indication of support. And when someone would have actually five persons supporting them, then I'll write their name down on this resolution that I handed out
 And at that point then it would be time to vote on the resolution. So, I'm just trying to get my bearings here too. So, there's been a name submitted in the second and we will vote and if that name gets five votes then does that mean the... Well that, if that happened, and I'm not saying that's the way it has to go, but if that happened then
 since there would be five persons supporting that, then I would then write the name down here on this resolution that I've handed out and then there would be a vote on the resolution itself. And that would in fact be the election, the appointment of that person to Ward 4, Position 2. It is interesting.
 You write the name down, we vote on the resolution, that has to get how many votes? Five? Five. What if it doesn't get five? Then we would have someone else would have to nominate someone else and we would go through that again? I don't think so. And if we get through all seven of these names, just follow me, and we order pizzas before midnight or whatever.
 and we still don't come to a consensus, and the mayor decides to vote or not, I guess he, let's say that he doesn't break a tie. Let's say it's, regardless, we don't get five votes. So you're saying that even though I, as a council member, believe by voting against appointment, because I believe that we should send this to a special election, I am either forced tonight to vote yes or no on a candidate,
 and just continually say no if that's my wish, and then if it gets to five, it gets to five, and if it doesn't, we just keep doing it. I don't understand where this goes to. Well, and there's no set procedure, as I told you before. I think if you all would get what appeared to be stuck, locked up,
 then I think I would probably recommend that you actually go back into executive session and see if you could work out something in executive session that you can't work out here. But I have hopes that maybe it can be worked out right here, and maybe relatively soon. I don't know what the votes are. I don't know what the support is. And certainly, so I'm just, I don't know what's going on. I'm just trying to get clarification because it seems like a situation that we haven't.
 And I will say, you're not required to vote at all. If you don't want to vote, you don't have to vote. Thank you. Okay. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. The only real prerequisite I had going into the night, if we were going to go down the path of appointment, was that somebody had experience working in the city in some capacity and that they could demonstrate that they had learned some lessons while they did it.
 Almost everybody here demonstrated that. And Mr. Smith's name has been put forward. I can't come up with a reason why I wouldn't support that, but I would make the same statement if a couple of these other names had been put forward. There were a few people here that I had never met before or heard from before.
 Or heard of before that I was very impressed with I wish we had this kind of Diversity of Backgrounds and approaches and experiences in every election So saying that
 I hope anybody who is not chosen tonight will not shy away from a campaign. And I would be proud to help a number of you with your campaigns directly. With all the lessons that I've learned the hard way. I would share any advice I have with several of you for you to do it as you saw fit.
 That's how I want to talk about Mr. Smith and my experiences a little bit. I've known Kyle for a few years and haven't always agreed with him about some things that I thought were really important even. And some of those conversations didn't go exactly my way either, even though I did my best to throw my weight around. One thing that I noticed the first time I saw Kyle present here,
 was that his statement to the council was rooted in data and that is a rare quality for most people that seek political office I think it's disappointingly rare and something I try to do and it's something that I wished as a rule we were able to do more often I think when I think people who take a data-driven approach and are actually committed to it
 are still able to decide that they were wrong about what they thought before. And being able to change your mind in the face of new facts is I think the most important quality for any public servant. It's also exceedingly rare, you may have noticed. I do not, if Kyle gets five votes, that's the motion on the floor, and we're gonna take a vote on it. If he gets five votes,
 Not only do I expect to have some disagreements with Kyle, I also expect him to win several of them, meaning I expect him to change my mind. I'm certain he will achieve consensus on things, but more than that, I expect he will achieve consensus at times by changing my mind. I suspect there are at least a couple of other people who have spoken here tonight that are
 I would be able to develop the same sort of relationship with, which is why I'd make my offer to help anybody with the campaign. I think what it comes down to for me is there's a nomination on the floor and I can't very well argue against it and knowing what I do know about who's been nominated, I can say that I would be absolutely proud to share the responsibility with Kyle
 and I'd be proud to have my mind changed by him, and I'd be proud to have the opportunity to change his mind. And the last thing I'll say is, after three years, if he hasn't done right by the Voters Award for, just like any of us, he'll deserve to lose the election if he runs again. And if he has, and he chooses to run, he deserves the win. If he gets five votes tonight, we'll see what happens.
 Okay, Sarah. Thank you. Kit, is this an opportunity for us to use instant runoff voting to determine the winner where we rank the candidates? Well, you could, or else, you know, since there was a motion, a nomination and a second on the floor, it's probably more proper at this point in time just to take a vote on that. And if that does not receive five votes, then certainly other names should be suggested. Okay, thank you.
 You know, I'm in a little bit of a privileged position because a lot of the people that have stepped to the forefront tonight have come before the nominating committee. And so we get to know them a little bit that way and we get to know how they perform once they get into committees.
 What we have here in Fayetteville is a very engaged community, and it's evident with everyone that stepped up this evening. Everyone has a qualification that they would bring to this position that would enhance our government and in turn enhance the community in which we live. The nature of having to select one out of many fine...
 individuals I think has turned into much tougher situation than I imagined the but we do have on the floor mr. Smith as a nominee and I will have to concede that he has been very his presence has been very evident and considerate and prepared and
 that counts for a lot because anyone that's going to have this type of attendance record and I tell you what we have struggled in our committees more than in city council in general in general of having a quorum and I think sometimes that is unforgivable because people are running for office and they know the demands of the time and not to have an active committee is
 is really letting down the whole process because that's where a lot of the action takes place more than what anyone ever sees. And so I guess what I'm saying is there are so many good folks that stepped up tonight that I wish I could say there's a place for all of you, but there is a place for all of you and all of you are active right now and that's very encouraging for our community.
 But with Mr. Smith in front of us and knowing that he has been dedicated, and not just dedicated to fill a seat, but dedicated to offer an opinion based on data, just as Matthew said, which is important to me also. I think you have to have data-driven arguments and fair arguments.
 I would not want to discourage anyone that stepped up this evening from seeking any future office at any time if They were not selected this evening and I say this in every nominating committee meeting Oh, how many of y'all been in front of me a nominating committee? please apply again because again we have 21 committees that will be filling positions on and even though Kyle you say that you don't think that the committee has teeth and
 if you look at the impact the committees have had on the overall productivity and legislation that's been brought to city council it has shaped the nature of our unified development code it has set forward uh ideals that we can use as a vision as we're developing any type of
 city activity or promoting any progress within any entity of the city. So I want everyone on the committee to think that there is, your committee has as much teeth as you bring to your city council person.
 That's what I'm saying. And we do have representatives, and a lot does come out of these committees. So there's a lot of impact there. So I can't think of a reason not to support this on the floor currently. And I didn't know this is the way that this would occur. But in conclusion, yes, I would support the nomination of Mr. Smith. OK, any other final comments? All right, Saunders, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. And then Mayor Jordan, you have to decide whether or not you want to vote. Okay. Here is my reasoning on Council Smith. When I served on this council, I worked a 40-hour-a-week job and spent the next,
 20 to 30 hours a week as a council member and that was every week I served the gentleman down the Down from me that time he said Matthew said Alan was setting and In all those years. I didn't miss council meetings and I didn't miss committee meetings because to me I
 I have this thing about attendance. I really do. I feel as though we're elected by the people to not just sit up here and vote, but we're elected to attend and be a part. And the one thing that stands out, and there's been several, and there's other folks that have applied that I've worked with,
 in the city and worked very well with them. But I remember one time I served on a committee that I missed a couple of committee meetings. And we had an older council member at that time, Swifty Reynolds, and he's passed away now. And I did not think that I really needed to go to every one of those committee meetings, so I missed a couple early on. And he said, I saw that you missed another equipment committee meeting. I said, I did.
 And he said, well, I will tell you this. You either show up for my committee meetings or get off the committee. And he put it to me just like that. He said, because it's important that you attend. So from that point in time, I made sure that I made it to his committee meeting. But that taught me a lesson because, you know, I thought, well, maybe that committee meeting is –
 You know, there was some stuff on there I wasn't quite as interested in. But you know what? It wasn't what I was interested in or what I liked. It was what I was assigned to and where I needed to be. Now, I've seen Kyle Smith sitting out here, multiple city council meetings. I've seen him at committee meetings. I saw him at the budget session on Saturday. I've worked with him. He's got a willingness to serve. And I want you to understand, Kyle, I'm going to support you in this tonight.
 But I don't want to have to see you missing. I don't want to see empty chairs. I want to see empty chairs up here. There's many a time in the last year or two that I've had five council members here. And I've had to vote, which is all right. I don't mind. I've been voting for a long time. Like John, in that regard, I'll vote and I'll show up. And I'm going to support you.
 But I want you to not only just vote, but you need to show up because that's important to me. And with that, I'll go ahead and support Kyle Smith. Okay, so that nomination passed, so I have now drafted the resolution that you have on the back. And let me read it to you. A resolution to elect Kyle Smith as City Council Member for Ward 4, Position 2 of the City of Fayetteville. Whereas a vacancy in the office of the Council Member of Ward 4, Position 2 has just occurred in the City of Fayetteville,
 And whereas the City Council pursuant to ACA 1443.411 subsection B has voted Kyle Smith as replacement City Council member for Ward 4, position 2. Now therefore it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, are hereby elects Kyle Smith to the office of City Councilmember of Ward 4, Position 2 in the City of Fayetteville, pursuant to Arkansas Code Annotated 14-43-411B to serve the remainder of the previous Councilmember's term. Okay. So that now needs a motion and a second. Mark? I move that we accept the resolution. Sarah? Second. Second.
 Any final comments from the council? I want to thank you, council. This is one of the hardest decisions that you make. It's not easy. Nobody said it was easy. It was what we was elected to do. All right. Son, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Kent? No. McTiernan? No. Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. And Mayor Jordan, you can vote if you please. Yes. Now, the resolution has been adopted. All right. Thank you all.
 What announcements do we have? Mayor, the city offices will be closed on Thursday and Friday of this week for the Thanksgiving holiday. All public offices will reopen on Monday. Okay. All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.