I'd like to call to order the November 21st, 2023 City Council meeting. The first order of business we have tonight is the oath of office for Robert Bob Stafford, Councilmember number one.
 Please raise your right hand. I, state your name. I, Robert B. Stacker. Do solemnly swear or affirm Do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution that I will support the Constitution of the United States of America and the Constitution and the Constitution of the State of Arkansas.
 And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Councilmember Ward 1, Position 1 City of Fayetteville upon which I am now about to enter. Congratulations.
 congratulations council member
 Stafford, yeah. I'm glad to see us all back at full strength again. All right. The next order of business, we have the roll call. Caravage, please call the roll. Stafford. Present. Jones. Here. Moore. Here. Whitaker. Here. Berna. Here.
 Fudge? Here. Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in a pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Now we have a walk on. Counsel? Counsel?
 Yes, Council Member Moore has a walk-on tonight, and let me read that so that everybody will know what it is. It's a resolution to waive appeal fees for Delaney Bartlett's appeal of a grading permit to the Planning Commission. And where at Section 15901A of the Unified Development Code authorizes a city council member to, quote, present a resolution to the city council.
 to waive or reduce development permit fees to serve the public interest or be beneficial to the city as a whole now therefore it be resolved by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby determines that waiving the appeal fee set by section 159-01 b4 for delaney bartlett's appeal of grading permit
 to the Planning Commission is in the public interest and beneficial to Fayetteville as a whole. And I should add, this is only a $100 appeal permit fee, and grading plans for some reason have this appeal permit fee when none of the other development appeals would require that.
 And so I think it's quite reasonable for Council Member Moore to have brought this for you. In order to act on it, you will have to move to suspend the rules to place this on the agenda, and it will be then heard immediately. Okay. Kent, is that proper? I need a motion and a second to put it on the agenda. I'll make a motion that we suspend the rules and put this on our agenda. Second. We have a motion and a second to put...
 Council members wrestling Moore's resolution on the agenda care which please call the roll Stafford yes Yes, more yes, we'd occur Yes, fair enough. Yes, yes Yes, yes sir
 Are we now hearing the item? Okay. Thank you. I appreciate bringing this forward tonight. The reason we had to walk it on is just because I wanted to do this for these community members was in due diligence whenever this was brought to my attention a couple of months ago that these individuals wished to appeal this particular project.
 doing the proper diligence at the time, didn't understand that there would be this process and these fees that would occur at the time. And so didn't want to make this unduly burdensome to them because I had not made those preparations. And so I'm bringing that forward to you tonight just because,
 Even in our hoping to do the right thing and give them information, didn't necessarily disclose exactly what was going to be necessary for them and don't want that to pose a burden given their concerns of the project. Thank you for your consideration. Okay. What questions do we have on this?
 Council member Moore, I appreciate you bringing this forth because I was Considering doing the same thing. So thank you for all those reasons that you shared. Thank you Yes Can I make a motion to There needs to be a motion to pass the resolution initially if that's what you want to do Yeah, I'll make a motion to pass the resolution second motion second pass resolution Any comments on that?
 care which please call the road Stafford yes Jones yes more yes we'd occur yes Barna yes yes sir yes Hertzberg yes thank you all right let's go on to the consent agenda number one approval of the November 7 2023 City Council meeting minutes number two resolution to authorize a cost share
 Faye Apartment Partners LLC any amount of $49,151 for street improvements on North Whittem Avenue? Mayor, I'm sorry to interrupt you. It's brought my attention. We forgot to take public comment on the previous. Oh, okay. Who would like to make public comment on the resolution we just passed? We'll just do a redo. Okay.
 mayor can i make a motion that we just close debate and go ahead and vote immediately needs a second and then we'd have to have a third second okay well let's vote again care which police call the row not in step stafford yes jones yes moore yes weedaker
 Yes. Burner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Bird? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. Now. I think since we've done that, I guess we're going to have to take a second vote on the resolution. I'm sorry because. Well, all righty then. Sorry. Let's take a, let's have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Make a motion to pass the resolution. Second.
 Now, do you all want me to take public comment and or what? I think we have a motion to pass the resolution. We passed the resolution to not have public comment, correct? The vote immediately was not to have any further comments. Just make sure I've got everything straight here. All right, Karen, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. So the resolution did get passed. That's good. I'm glad. It was a tough vote three times in a row. Four. All right. Let's go to number three. I did read the first two, didn't I? Yes.
 Thank you. All right, it's number three. A resolution to authorize a contract with Sweetsville Construction Incorporated to any amount of $2,315,976 for the construction of Perry Street, a West Avenue improvements project to approve project contingency in the amount of $230,000 and to approve budget adjustment. This is 2019 Street Improvement Bond Project.
 Number four, resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with South Delta Aviation for the hangar located at 4230 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $1,400 per month. Number five, a resolution to approve a three-year lease agreement with South Delta Aviation for the hangar located at 4248 South School Avenue for rent in the amount of $3,177 per month.
 Okay. Number six, a resolution to authorize a contract with MGT Consulting Pursuit RFP 23-15 in the amount of $48,325 to conduct a park impact fee study and to approve project density in the amount of $5,000. Number seven, a resolution to approve updates to the Federal Fire Department administrative policies.
 8. A resolution to award RFP 23-17 and to approve a one-year contract with Galls LLC for police uniforms, equipment, and quartermaster services with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms. 9. A resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2023 community-oriented contract.
 policing services hiring program grant any amount of $250,000 to fund two new police officer positions for expansion of the school resource officer program for a period of four years and to approve the budget adjustment. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda. Mayor, I'd like to pull one item from consent. A9, please. All right. Where would you like to put A9? It goes immediately after the consent agenda. All right.
 Okay, that was cool. All right, we have a motion and a second to pass the other eight items on consent. Caravans, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Let me go back one moment, please. Who was the first and second on that, except as read? I'll make a motion. We accept the other eight consent agenda items as read. Second. Second.
 Thank you. Who's motion? Okay, we don't have to. John Coates, Jr.: Well, we had a motion and a second, but then. We don't have to make a motion to pull. John Coates, Jr.: No, no, we're fine. We're good. Stafford? John Coates, Jr.: Yes. Jones? John Coates, Jr.: Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg?
 A resolution authorized, I'll read it again. A resolution to authorize the acceptance of a 2023 community-oriented policing services hiring program grant in the amount of $250,000 to fund two new police officer positions for expansion of school resource officer program for a period of four years and to approve budget adjustment. Chief, I guess you are up or...
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. I guess I really don't know where you want me to begin since this is all on consent. I can run through a timeline if you would like for the last four years, or if you want me to. I can start with the last year, just whatever your preference is. Okay. Council Member Moore, what would you like? It's up to the Chief's preference. I just wanted, you know...
 As I have a history with this item, obviously, kind of speak to the elephant in the room, but I can't in good faith move forward with the yes vote, so I'm pulling it. I do want to acknowledge, and I see folks in attendance tonight from the district, and I really appreciate, and I understand the concern and the fear and the different diligence that's happened within the community, both between our police department and the school district, and I respect that.
 the professionalism and the work that's gone into this. Unfortunately, I don't see the data and the evidence that's convincing to me that continuing to harden our schools is the approach that makes our children and our families. Thank you.
 All right. Well, I guess I'll just kind of take it from this past year. And so I'll go back to the resolution that Council Member Hertzberg passed. And so back on August 16th of 2022, at that time, all eight of our city council members supported a resolution. I believe it was Resolution 190-22 that Council Member Hertzberg brought forward. And the passage of that resolution by this council expressed the intent,
 for us to put two school resource officers in our school every year until we had a school resource officer. And I believe it's all 17 public schools now of the Fayetteville Public School District. A few months later, the city council then added the eighth and ninth school resource officers to our budget. And when I say to our budget, I'm talking about the 2023 budget.
 WITH THAT AGREEMENT, I TOLD COUNCIL THAT I FELT LIKE I COULD GET THOSE TWO SROs IN OUR SCHOOL AT THE BEGINNING OF THE 2023-2024 SCHOOL YEAR. SO THIS PAST AUGUST, I WAS ABLE TO DO THAT. WE ADDED OUR EIGHT AND NINTH SROs INTO THE SCHOOL.
 And then on March 8th of this year, I was notified of a grant opportunity, a COPS hiring grant, which I think most of the council members are familiar with. I brought that forward to council to figure out a way that maybe we could take a little bit of bite out of the financial costs for both the Fayetteville Public Schools and also for the city of Fayetteville. I brought that request forward back on May 2nd.
 to this council and this council gave me approval to apply for that COPS Hiring Grant, which I did. And then on November 2nd, a few weeks ago, we were notified by the Department of Justice that we received that COPS Hiring Grant for $250,000.
 So if you were to accept that grant award tonight, it would help fund these two additional school resource officers that our financial officer, chief financial officer, Paul Becker, has talked about for the last several weeks that we're including into the 2024 budget to get them started in the 2024-2025 school year. So as I stand before you tonight, I'm confident
 that we could get them hired and get them in the school at the beginning of August of 2024 for that school year. This grant would require that the two officers remain employed at 100% cost to both the city and to the Fayetteville Public Schools in a fourth year. For the first three years, it'll pay up to $125,000 per officer. And I've estimated that that total cost over four years would be $746,100.
 But after you apply that $250,000 grant, the local match for the grant is now $496,100. And that's split proportionately between the Fayetteville Public Schools and also between the city of Fayetteville.
 So based upon our MOU, the Fayetteville Public Schools four year cost share is estimated to be $339,710. And that's based upon 178 days out of the year that the Fayetteville Public Schools have the SROs, which is about 68 percent of the time.
 The city of Fayetteville's four year cost share is estimated to be $156,390 over that four year period. And that's based upon the 82 days out of the year that we have them, which is equates to about 32 percent of the time. I can break that down even further as we're talking about the upcoming budget. So for a full budget year, the COPS hiring grant will pay for $83,333.
 of the annual cost for the two officers, which the annual cost is $204,962. So that leftover amount is split once again between the Fayetteville Public Schools at 68%. And that leaves an annual cost to the Fayetteville Public Schools for these two officers to be $82,707. And then the 32% that's leftover that goes to the city of Fayetteville is $38,921 for the two officers next year.
 Mayor, with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions would you like to ask? Chief, I know it'll surprise no one when I say this, but I adamantly support this proposal and I will acknowledge that your force, your police force is unquestionably one of the finest in the region, if not the country, and it should be something that Fayetteville is proud of.
 You know, when my little grandkids, Grayson and Charlie and Chase and Lillian, walk through those public school doors, I want to know that I've done as much as I can to, it won't eliminate the threat, but it'll certainly make them safer. And just to give some examples of, I'd like to hear some of the situations that you guys are called into
 What kind of threat? Why are you called into these situations? Give us some examples. Well, it's no different than what we've talked about in the previous years that we've talked about school resource officers and the need by the Fayetteville Public Schools, which I'd be remiss to not mention that Dr. Mulford's here tonight. I've met with Dr. Mulford, had a good meeting with him about the school resource officer program.
 and he's 100% supportive of the direction that we're going by adding a school resource officer in every school. So I'm sure he could speak to that more tonight, but I wanted to acknowledge his presence as well. But to answer your question, Council Member Berna, you know, I think it was at the very first of the year, August 21st, that we responded to a report from another student.
 that reported another student had a handgun on campus. And so that student had a handgun in his backpack. So that was one of the first situations that we responded to this year. Our school resource officers immediately responded to that. I was able to get the gun from the backpack and able to defuse, you know, any type of volatile situation that would have occurred. We've had numerous fights that have occurred, sometimes brawls.
 Sometimes at the end of school, whenever the students are waiting for the buses to get there. We've had a brawl where one of our officers was attacked. He was kicked. He was punched in the head, the face, the chest. Also had faculty members attacked as well. And then most recently, we had a student that stabbed one of our teachers in the arm with a pencil. So.
 So those are just a few examples of some things that we're responding to. Once again, you know, about 76, 77, 78% of the time, we're responding to a request by an employee of the Fayetteville Public Schools, typically a faculty member that's dealing with some type of abusive criminal type of behavior. And approximately, I think it's approximately,
 78% of the time, our encounters result in some type of restorative justice. It doesn't result in an arrest. It doesn't result in a citation. It results in some type of discipline that we collaborate and corroborate with the school on, and they make a decision that this student needs to go to some type of restorative justice or some type of disciplinary program. And so that leaves only 22% of our encounters that result in some type of
 arrest or some type of citation whether released to their parent or to their guardian i don't know if that answered your question or not it highlights the dangers that they faced as the school school system the students basically highlights that so okay
 Excuse me for a second. I think all our mics are stuck on over here. I hope they are. No, I'm looking while I look. I see my phone came on. I just came on this side. But I'm not sure I'm recording, so I guess it's off. I have a couple comments here. In the past, I've had concerns about the program.
 uh reading about how to be implemented in other places around the country and where sometimes uh inherent bias not necessarily on the part of our officers but maybe school administration or something uh creates some issues uh for certain populations but you know um
 y'all might not believe this or for some of you will but i wasn't necessarily the the uh most well-behaved young man in my high school year and uh i ended up getting in a little bit of trouble with our fine police department and uh i think that was a good thing i'm glad i got in trouble i deserve to get in trouble and sometimes that can help take you on the right path um i brought up my concern with chief reynolds
 before and we talked about it and I believe that he's aware of some of these issues that happen in other places with other departments and as these issues pop up, I believe they can be dealt with. You know, if there's an issue we can deal with it. But when it comes down to it, you know, earlier this year, I believe it was earlier this year when we all had this in front of you to approve the application of the grant. That's correct. Yeah.
 There was a room full of parents in here. I was in the chambers for another uh, gen-dia. But there was a room full of parents in here, and just two days before, I think it was just a couple days before, there was a mass shooting in uh, Mississippi, I believe. I'm not quite sure, but I believe it was in Mississippi. This is a new world we live in, and and it, mass shootings don't exist around here like they do now. And
 You know, just a few days after that vote, there was a gun found at Fayetteville High on a student. You know, the group was in the footing. And I think that I'm not going to tell a room full of parents that, no, we don't need school resource officers in the room. We live in a different world. We did. And also, if a kid gets in trouble and gets a citation, well, it was good for me. I felt that it helped set me on the right track. That and my parents' experience.
 And so, you know, I think those concerns come up and dealt with as they come out and it, you know, I think you'll be vigilant, will be vigilant. Seeing when those issues do come up, but I think we do have a great police department
 And for me, it's just an issue of safety nowadays. And we fought when we were kids. We fought after school. We had a little church courtyard that we fought at near Butterfield, even in elementary school. Every day there was a little fight. Back then, it was a fight, and you would somebody would knock the other guy down, and you'd get up, shake their hands, and walk away. That's not what we're dealing with now. We're dealing with liberal brawls. We're dealing with weapons.
 and we need to have people that are able to respond in a quick and appropriate manner to those kind of calls. So I support this and I'll be voting in a state. Okay, so then it's up to you guys. We'll vote in a matter of minutes. We'll just wait for a minute and then we'll just get on with it. So, getting things to ground as we get here.
 Can't help but I wanted to point something out about a couple of weeks ago. I received an email from Lieutenant Shepard and I believe Councilmember Hertzberg and Councilmember Turcotte included. And this is from the Journal of Corridor Social Work. Invading social work into a police department in the South.
 insights from implementation and baseline departmental attitudes. And of course, it's about the great work that our department has done, particularly after what happened in 2020, the drug fraud and what happened nationally. There were some concerns, but our department remains diligent.
 and were correct. And not only did I hear from the police department, and I've shared this before, I've heard from parents. I've heard from certain parents, and parents called me and said, I cannot believe that we don't have police, that we don't have security, that we don't have
 And so I work in the school district and hearing all the things and noticing how Chief Grant and the department responded. And not only that, when I read this article it lets me know that other communities and cities in the state, interventionally, are looking at Fayetteville and what we've done. In the South, what Fayetteville Police Department has done, the Social Work Department and resource officers, is they're a game changer.
 And I was in D.C. last March, and there were individuals from Oregon who were placed, and they wanted to know. They were so impressed at what Faygo was doing. And so I can't imagine. The only thing that I can imagine that I was doing was looking for it.
 That is the only thing. I know that there are challenges, and I know that we've made some strides, and there's nothing perfect, but we're doing it right. We're the parents.
 And I'm saying the principal at Bethel High School, and I'm aware that if, God forbid, if these officers were not present, what would it be like?
 I don't have any children, but I cannot, but I have nieces and nephews, and I would not send them to any school without business officers. I would not. I've talked to black boys, and the black boys told me that these officers have helped them in so many different ways. They've been mentors, they've been father-teachers, they've been big brothers, they bought shoes, they bought clothes. They've done what police officers don't want to do.
 So guys, I think that it's time that we move forward. It's time that we do the right thing. And I notice I said the right thing. Not the perfect thing, because there's no perfect thing. But the right thing for the community, for the students, for the families, for the teacher, for the administrators.
 All of us. And I think that, you know, this is something that we, I believe that we did in good faith when you brought it forth back in August. When you brought it to us, and that's our intention. That was our intention. I think that we have to commit to that. So...
 I am I support this without reservation and I appreciate your response with us at the hospital. I mean, you guys are our best partner as it relates to all of course, but you are setting the standard. So I don't think we could ask for that department. So thank you, Chief Reynolds. And thank you for bringing this forward and looking out for all of us.
 Mayor, I move that we suspend the rules, forego public comment, and vote immediately. I move that we suspend the rules, forego public comment, and vote immediately. Second. No, forego public comment and vote immediately.
 Yeah, that is a legitimate motion that is recognized by the Municipal League. That's one of the motions that they say is you don't call the question or anything like that. Instead, you just move to vote immediately. That's not debatable. It requires a second. And then the vote is taken and it requires a two-thirds majority to pass. Was there a second? Yes.
 I won't be sure I'm correct. So I don't even want to comment. Yeah, no further comment, even from the council on that. All right. Can I have a little clarification on this vote we're about to have? This is a vote whether or not we're going to take that comment? Well, it's a vote to vote. I mean, it would be a vote whether you want to vote immediately on the resolution. So if you don't want to vote immediately, then you'd vote against it.
 And just a quick comment, I mean, if I would like, I mean, I think it's important to always allow public comment, and that's the reason not to, that the strong reason not to. I mean, I know I'm going to support this, but I still think that it's important for me to hear all voices. How would I vote on this first? Then you would vote no. Okay. Karen, can you just call the vote? Stafford? No.
 Jones? No. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Dirk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. So that passed, so now the resolution is to you for the vote. What, how much is it? I'm just going to take it.
 I'm sorry. Just barely. Any other questions? We're going to have to either take the brain or the heart.
 We have no idea what has occurred, but we'll have to reboot the system. It takes 15 or so minutes to come back. I want to make sure that Sarah can be heard. She's, you know, so I don't know what we need to do here. Her voice is not as loud as mine. I got it.
 Can't trust me. I can hear her. Mayor, can we use the platform mic? I think it will move. We can move it. Can we move this around? Yes, it's cordless. Okay.
 Is this working? Yeah. Hey, that's good. All right. Yeah, we can just pass it back forward. Okay. Broke the mic. Is it on? Can you guys hear? Oh, I can hear. Okay. Thank you. I apologize. I have a soft voice and it's hard to project. Okay.
 I might cut off earlier when I was speaking and I absolutely respect and I appreciate my colleagues comments. I know that this is a hard conversation within our community. Even if you packed this room, it's not even 1% of the population of Fayetteville. You know, with 100,000 of us, we have very diverse viewpoints. On council, I am the only person sitting on council that currently has children that are in the district, a seven and a 12 year old.
 I worry every single day for their well-being and the well-being of their friends. And our kids are in all right. And I think we've all recognized that and held hands together. And so, again, I want to really reiterate that I come at this
 from a place of science, of the data, but also of love for these students and really appreciation for the people that are in those rooms every day and understanding the English. I really think we're going to look back on this moment and we're going to be regretful about some of the ways we've responded. But I also know that there are incredible solutions too that these teams are working on that we don't see every day and we don't get to hear all the details and we don't get to champion them, but they're incredibly important. Yeah.
 And so I really appreciate that. So I just wanted to make sure when I got cut off earlier that I was able, I value the perspective that each of us are bringing to this conversation. It's incredibly nuanced and there's a lot of emotion. And I know at the end of the day, we all want the same thing, right? We all have the same goal. We might just think of different ways to arrive at it. So thank you for the conversation we've had tonight and I appreciate it.
 Who else wants to speak? Anybody? Mr. Mayor, there's supposed to be a vote immediately. There's not supposed to be discussion after that. It's supposed to be a motion for immediate vote, which means they go to it immediately. Immediately? Yes. All right. I can work with that. No, they've already done it. I see. No. Was there, and I guess there still needs a motion to approve the resolution, but that's the only, but no discussion after that. I move we approve the resolution. Thank you. Okay, we have a motion to say to pass the resolution.
 Here we go. Stafford Jones. Yeah, more. No. We did grab this. Yes, we do. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Shall we take a break till we get this sound system fixed? All right. Let's start on this business. Number one, an ordinance to amend 117.93, the likes of the Ozarks to expand the event area to include the block of East Avenue between Mountain Street and the O'Reilly
 and Center Street to amend 178.04 outdoor mobile vendors to authorize food trucks and trailers to operate on the downtown square during certain standing events and to declare an emergency. Whereas since 1994, lights of the Ozarks has attracted thousands of visitors to the downtown square during the holiday season,
 And whereas the downtown Fayetteville coalition requested that the city consider authorizing the closure of East Avenue between Mountain Street and Center Street for longer than is currently allowed by code,
 And whereas approving this extended closure will keep sidewalks and walkways clear and accessible, provide organizers with the flexibility to move food trucks and trailers around the square to spread out power needs, create pedestrian-focused spaces for people to congregate safely, and keep traffic flowing smoothly utilizing a u-shaped traffic plan to alleviate congestion.
 And whereas the city staff agrees that it will not only be safer for visitors by expanding pedestrian space, but it will also increase the economic impact of Lights of the Ozarks by encouraging pedestrians to spend more time patronizing businesses in the downtown area. And whereas an amendment to Section 178.04 will clarify that permitted food trucks and trailers may operate on the downtown square during the farmer's market, first Thursday and Lights of the Ozarks.
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 177.93, Lights of the Ozarks and an Act of Replacement, Section 117.93, as shown in Exhibit A, attached to your 2. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Section 178.04, Outdoor Mobile Vendors,
 By enacting a new subsection E4 to authorize permitted food trucks and trailers to operate on the downtown square during certain standing events as follows. Subsection 4, parking spaces on the downtown square during the following standing events and within the areas designated for the events by the city code or special event permit. Subsection A, farmer's market. B, first Thursday. And C, lights of the Ozark.
 The 12-hour time limit does not apply to permitted food trucks and trailers managed by the Federal Advertising and Promotion Commission during Lights of the Ozarks as authorized by Section 117.93 of the City Code.
 And Section 3, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby determined that this ordinance should become effective without delay to make the downtown square safer for pedestrians and to keep vehicular traffic flowing more smoothly and safely during lights of the Ozarks, which began on November 17th.
 The City Council finds that this is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents, and therefore declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. So there are three events whose operations are codified by ordinance. Farmer's Market, First Thursdays, and Lights of the Ozarks. So in city code, city code spells out how those events can operate, when and where they can operate.
 Experience Fayetteville manages lights of the Ozarks and in consultation in coordination with the downtown Fayetteville coalition Based on business feedback. They've requested that these changes be made to the code that governs how their Events operate Really can't say it any better than the whereas clauses there in the ordinance itself in terms of the the
 reason that they're requesting these changes, but essentially it's to give more flexibility to the event organizers to have expanded hours on when East Avenue can be closed for the reasons just described. There is an amendment, and I'll just read it just so we're absolutely clear. The amendment states that the city may require additional safety measures to be in place as a condition of approving the closure of East Avenue.
 So that just makes it crystal clear that if the mayor does approve the closure of East Avenue during lights of the Ozarks, that additional safety measures in consultation with the police department can be implemented. Experienced Fayetteville staff and downtown Fayetteville coalition staff are on hand to answer any questions about additional information.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have a question. This all seems pretty straightforward except the hours of operation. It's left really big and open and that seems like it might need to be a little tightened up and unless I missed that, I'm looking at 117.93 Section B.
 So is that with respect to the actual hours of lights of the Ozarks or to any associated street closures or both? It's just to the street closures. It's specific to that. Right. So the current code...
 stipulates specific hours that East Avenue could be closed this removes those restrictions okay so it's wide it's wide open and determined by experience vehicle is that it's actually it's not wide open if you look at the subsection a above that if the street closure are all controlled by the mayor you know so even if they can operate the likes of the Ozarks but
 When it comes to closing East Avenue, that's only upon the consent of the mayor. And he can vary it. He doesn't have to consent for the entire season. He can start it and see how it works. I tried to make sure that the city would remain in control of the streets, even though we are extending the A&P Commission the right to have lights at the Ozarks at more times maybe than they are right now.
 Okay, I missed that. I think others might miss it too, but I appreciate that explanation and thank you, Kit and Mayor. Yeah, I've got the ball open and closed. And I might add that the amendment further clarifies that whatever necessary safety measures need to be in place for such an approved street closure will be done so.
 Oh, okay. Well, that's good to know. Because you all... That's back on. I've got one question. Raise your... Somebody raise your hand if you want to. If you've got a question. Okay, Sarah. We've got to share that mic. Excellent. Oh, yes.
 Let me introduce to our emcee, Jonathan Kurse. I've had a stressful day, so this is some comic relief. I'm really appreciating this. So people that had failure to appear, this is nothing, right? Having a mic problem. Going back to the hours of operation, I just want to do an additional clarifying question because
 We do have specified hours that we actually have the lights on. So just because of their actual operation of hours that we have established, is that inferred within the ordinance that that's basically when that closure would exist or no? I think they did have actual hours before, and they actually did close East Avenue for a period of time in the evenings while the carriage was running and stuff.
 But they requested more time than that. And so I kind of, the mayor, I think, agreed to give them more flexibility on their time. But the city wanted to maintain the right of closure of the street and not necessarily extend that for as long as they might want. And to keep, anyway, the mayor just wanted to be able to remain in charge of the city streets and not to, like, close the street for,
 for six weeks and never have it open. So I think that...
 And so this is changing the code to keep us from being there. The life of the old guys can have longer hours if they want to. But yet, the mayor maintains the right of whether or not to close the street. Or open it back up again. That kind of thing. We're doing this on a trial basis to see how it works out, and I think it'll work out fine. But if it doesn't, then I will step in and do something different. Kind of sort of.
 i wish i could put it another way that's what will happen
 Oh, you got a question? Yeah. Go ahead. Sometimes, as you full well know, we in the city, we get pushback on some of our parking requirements. I know the answer to this question, but I want to put it out there. I wanted you to answer it publicly. You have communicated or someone within the organization have communicated with businesses that could potentially be affected. And they are fully on board with what we're talking about doing.
 He takes the fifth on that. Oh, I forgot. We don't have a mic now. Yes. And the downtown Fayetteville coalition representatives might be,
 better equipped to speak to this, they did the outreach. But a lot of this was based on business impact and input and feedback of previous lights of the Ozarks. And so yes, there's been outreach with the business community. And the way this sort of started, I know Kelly Rich from Downtown Coalition,
 wanted to close the street down. So I said, okay. And then she was going to check with the businesses, which she told me she did. And I checked with a couple of them too, not all of them. And they were okay with it. They thought it would be a good draw.
 And so I was in the process of going ahead and okaying it, but then I read the ordinance that was passed by the city council, and I didn't really want to, I thought I might want to obey the ordinance that was passed by the council. So I took it to Kit, and he said, yeah, it'll take council change. Yes, Bob. Can I just reject, does this work in every bay area? And this will be picked up on the board.
 I mean to me this sounds like a great idea. It sounds like we're really going to be able to activate Squaremore as part of people going down there and visiting. Maybe even help get people out of their cars instead of just doing the loop and you know go check out the lights, use the food trucks, walk to the restaurant. So I think this sounds like a wonderful idea and at least to do on a trial basis. Yeah.
 I think all the food trucks will be in the same place on East Street, so they're not scattered all over the square. And that kind of helps, I think, instead of somebody having to tear down everything every night and put it back up again every day, I think it helps that way too, right? Because they'll be able to keep those set up longer? Yeah, well, probably Kelly Rich can answer. Kelly, you want to come up? Yes. I'm just wondering, I'm not sure if you're familiar with the food trucks, but I'm not sure if you've ever been to a food truck, and you've never been to a food truck, and you've never been to a food truck, and you've never been to a food truck, and you've never been to a food truck, and you've never been to a food truck, and you've never been to a food truck, and you've never been to a food truck,
 I apologize. I actually didn't hear the question. Do you mind repeating? I apologize. I was just saying, you know, having that closed off and then being able to close it off for a longer period of time, it'll keep people from having to do the constant pare down, set up, pare down, set up. Yes. There's actually, and Chloe's here and also Molly with Experience Fayetteville, they obviously have had the history. This is my first time working with Lights of the Ozarks.
 But our goal is to, yes, create a kind of a safe pedestrian focused food court and utilizing East Street for that, taking them away from where previously the food trucks were faced inward. And it created a lot of kind of crowd cloggage due to lines and people waiting while people were also crossing. And so taking those crowds of the food trucks and putting them in their own separate space in the street will really help with flow along the square itself.
 But a lot of these food trucks actually stay for the entire six-week period. And so we get them settled, they set up, and then they're there for the entire six weeks of flights with the Ozarks. Sure. Anything else from the council? Yes, Tracy. I have one other question. Will this also help with the electrical so there won't be generators there? Are you working toward making it a little bit –
 calmer or silent? Yes, very much so. That was actually one of the main things we were trying to accommodate was to be able to utilize the power that's already in place. But the way that the 50 amp, is that the right term? I apologize. That the food trucks use are actually on the exterior of the square where previously they were restricted to the interior of the square. So that required a lot of those cords and then the little overlap things. And it just was a little, not only visually cluttering, but a lot of times people would have to bring in supplemental equipment
 generators, which no one likes to listen to. Right. Thank you. That's a huge improvement. Any other questions from the council? Great. Thank you all. Okay.
 are you ready for some public comment all right let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating as then we'll speak after that who'd like to address this from the public on this topic okay i'll bring it back to the
 Council. And you don't have anybody on Zoom? At this point, Mayor, I would suggest, oh, I'm sorry. I was just saying there's no one on Zoom. All right. There is a, the Exhibit A does need to have a very slight amendment as explained to by Justin. And I handed out an example. It's a highlighted portion on Exhibit A, but it needs a motion and a second to amend that. Do you need a motion on?
 on that. All right. I need a motion and a second. I move we amend Zip-It-A to include the city may require additional safety measures to be in place as a condition of approving the closure of East Avenue. Second. Any conversation on this? Kerwood, please call. Can you get them? Do I need to get a mic?
 I think I can stack them. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Bluedegger? Yes. Barnard? Yes. Butt? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erdberg? Yes. Okay, the ordinance has now been amended, Mayor. Okay. Or the exhibit, sorry. We suspend the rules and take it to the second reading. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Kara, would you please call the roll? Pepper? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Butt? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Herzberg? Yes. In order to amend section 117.93 lights of the Ozarks to expand the event area to include the block of East Avenue between Mountain Street and Center Street
 to amend section 178.04 outdoor mobile vendors to authorize food trucks and trailers to operate on the downtown square during certain standing events and to declare an emergency mayor and move we suspend the rules to go third and final read second okay care which police call row yes yes
 Yes. Burnham? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turd? Yes. Turd's part. Yes. And orders to amend section 117.93, lights of the Ozarks to expand the event area to include the block of East Avenue between Mountain Street and Center Street. To amend section 178.04, outdoor mobile vendors to authorize food trucks and trailers to operate on the downtown square during certain standing events and to declare an emergency. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Stanford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Warren. Yes. Lutiger. Yes. Barnum. Yes. Bunn. Yes. Berk. Yes. Herzberg. Yes. Okay, now we need an emergency clause. We need a motion and a second to pass the emergency clause. I move we pass the emergency clause. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the emergency clause.
 Caravage Police, Calderon. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Leiter? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. I'm sure this will work out relatively well. All right, let's go to number two.
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 23-02 for property located at 2395 East Amherst Alley in Ward 3 to vacate a 196 square foot portion of access easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes.
 And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of an access easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of an access easement described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. This particular property is in North Fayetteville in Ward 3. It's within the Sagely Place subdivision, which is due north of Zion Road's intersection with Old Missouri Road. As the 2023 aerial suggests that you can see here, it is a relatively newly constructed area in this part of Fayetteville.
 As for which specific property in question it is, it's lot 31 of the phases two and three subdivision of Sagely Place, which is in the southeastern most corner of the neighborhood.
 to create some pedestrian connectivity throughout the development. A sidewalk was proposed to run along the east side of this house. And with that in mind, there was a 10 foot access easement dedicated across the anticipated path of that sidewalk
 which you can see here indicated in the faint orangish yellow color. Today the sidewalk is built and sits within the easement. However, the easement is twice the width of the sidewalk itself, so it does extend beyond it going in both directions. With this in mind, the request before council is to vacate a portion of the or an unoccupied portion of the access easement totaling 196 square foot so that the adjoining property owner can add a porch to their property.
 When reviewing their request, staff did not identify any issues. The sidewalk would be preserved within the remains of the existing access easement. As an access easement, it's not subject to the franchise utility approvals or consents that would normally be considered for a utility easement.
 However, in the interest of due diligence, Planning did reach out to both our transportation departments and our recycling and trash departments, which do sometimes need to navigate access easements for other purposes and neither had any concerns with the request. Accordingly, staff is recommending in favor. Again, because it's not a utility easement, there are not any underlying utilities that need to be considered with conditions, so we are recommending approval without any today.
 And I'm happy to take any questions, Mayor. And Lance Weatherton is here as the applicant for the item. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? No. Oh, yes. All right. Mayor. Okay.
 Mr. Mayor and members of the City Council, I'm Lance Weatherton, live at 2408 East Frontier Elm, close to the property. I think Jonathan did a great job explaining. I'm just here to answer any questions that you might have. Do we have any questions for the staff? I'm kind of watching these folks over here. I'm watching you all. You're your boy. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 if there's not we'll take some public comment anyway i think i can find that either oh yes everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on top and please give us your name and address those present change will be allowed to speak first and those participating by them will speak after that who would like to address this on this topic bring it back to the council then nobody on zoom okay
 i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second the motion second to go the second reading care which please call the role stanford yes jones yes more yes
 Yes. Burnett? Yes. Batch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. In order to approve BAC 23-2 for property located at 2395 East Amherst Alley in Ward 3 to vacate a 96 square foot portion of an excess easement.
 and maybe suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second yeah the motion is second to go to the third and final reading care which please call her up stafford yes jones yes more yes yes yes
 And Lawrence approved DAC 23-2 for property located at 2395 East Amherst Alley in Ward 3 to vacate a 96 square foot portion of an access easement. Any final comments from council? Here, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederford? Yes. Verna? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes.
 Okay. Thank you all. Let's go to number three. An ordinance to approve vacation 23-11 for property located at 2417 North Shallow Drive, Ward 2. Vacate portions of street right-of-way totaling .287
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of street right-of-way are not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville,
 Hereby vacates the portions of street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner or developer's expense.
 Number two, easement shall be dedicated as requested by Black Hills Energy and AT&T to ensure that those entities maintain their right to access existing facilities. And number three, a drainage easement shall be dedicated over the proposed stormwater pipe within the area where the right-of-way is proposed to be vacated.
 Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to Northwest Fayetteville and Ward 2. It includes five pieces of vacant public right-of-way associated with the former alignment of Moore Lane. More specifically, it's north of what you see here in the aerial is the former Williams Tractor location and maybe more familiar now is the future location of Lewis Brothers Auto. It's between Shiloh to the east and Dean Solomon to the west.
 Prior to 2019, as I noted, this right-of-way, which you can see on the top image, was occupied by Moore Lane's previous alignment, which included two sharp corners. Subsequently, the Timber Ridge subdivision was proposed and constructed to the northwest, at which time the road's realignment was performed, which included additional width, stormwater, and sidewalks, and the resultant abandonment or vacating
 physically of a portion of right-of-way to the southeast of the location. Perhaps a more clear way of seeing that on the left side of the picture, you can see where Moor Lane previously ran before shifting to the northwest and sitting in its current alignment.
 That brings us to our request, which is a proposal to vacate about 2.8 acres of right-of-way that is no longer being used in association with Moore Lane or any other public purpose. The applicant has requested to vacate these, what are ultimately five separate pieces of right-of-way, but are folded into one request given they're contiguous with each other.
 In evaluating the request, staff had received consent from all the franchise utilities. There was one item of note, however, that came up at the Planning Commission meeting where this was heard on October 23rd. There were questions about whether the existing drainage infrastructure in that right-of-way needed to be accommodated, and what that ultimately brought up was a question of whether or not
 whether new drainage infrastructure needed to be accommodated in that area. This project fit into an unusual location where it has gone through many of its construction documents, including the dedication of easements before this right-of-way was dedicated. And typically that point in a project when easements are being dedicated is when that would be captured. And so it was correctly noted that this needed to be accounted for with this right-of-way vacation to ensure that this drainage infrastructure was captured.
 And you can see that in much more technical terms in the inset there from the grading permit drawing with the purple line showing where the proposed drainage infrastructure would come out into what is today right away but being proposed to be vacated. Accordingly, the Planning Commission included a condition of approval that that drainage infrastructure be captured in a drainage easement, and staff does agree with that recommendation.
 Accordingly, both staff and planning commission recommend approval of the request. There are three conditions which Mr. Williams noted. Our typical boilerplate comment that any utility damage or relocation be at the applicant or the developer's expense. Two specific conditions or one condition capturing two specific requests from Black Hills and AT&T that their existing infrastructure maintain easements over them. And finally, the one that I just noted regarding the
 the requirement that the drainage use would be dedicated for the proposed stormwater pipe. Ultimately, the Planning Commission forwarded this request to Council by a vote of nine to zero. And to date, we've received one piece of public comment leading up to the Planning Commission, and it was an inquiry about what was being proposed and no statement of opposition or support necessarily. With that, I'm available for any questions. And Suzanne Clark is the applicant for this item, Mayor. Thank you. Mayor Redekopal Would the applicant like to speak for the Council?
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor and Council. I appreciate your time this evening. I'm Suzanne Clark, Clark Law Firm, on behalf of Lewis Brothers Leasing Company. Mr. Kurth did an excellent job of explaining all the issues before the council this morning. The right-of-way is not in use any longer. My client has no objection to the conditions that have been raised by planning, and so we just ask that you vote in favor of planning's recommendation this evening. I'll be happy to address any other questions. Thank you. Is there any questions for the app and our staff?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? Who do you have on Zoom? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance vacation.
 It's on the first reading. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Scott. I move we suspend the rules and take it to the second reading. Second. I move the motion to second to go to the second reading. Terrence, would you please call the roll? Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Leder. Leder.
 Yes. Burnett? Yes. Butch? Yes. Erd? Yes. Erd-Spar? Yes. And in order to approve VAC 23-11 for property located at 2417 North Shiloh Drive in Ward 2 to vacate portions of a street right-of-way totaling .28 acres. Mayor, I move that the bill be suspended and go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Winter? Yes. Verna? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Herzberg? Yes. And in order to approve BAC 23-11 for property located at 2417 North Shiloh Drive in Ward 2 to vacate portions of a street right-of-way totaling .28 acres. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wendiger? Yes. Verma? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Church? Yes. Ermsford? Yes. Good, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to amend Ordinance 6427-20.
 and ordinance 6625 to extend the sunset provision for short-term rental regulations to december the 31st 2024 kit
 Whereas the sunset clause in ordinance 6427, which was passed on April 20th of 2021, provides that the ordinance, quote, and all amendments to code sections ordained or enacted by this ordinance shall automatically sunset, be repealed, terminated, and become void 20 months after the passage and approval of this ordinance, unless prior to that date the city council amends this ordinance to repeal the sunset repeal and termination section.
 and whereas Ordinance 6625, which was passed on December 6th of 2022, amended Ordinance 6427 so that the ordinance, quote, and all amendments to the code sections ordained or enacted by Ordinance 6427 shall automatically sunset, be repealed, and become void on December 31st, 2023, unless prior to that date the City Council amends this ordinance to repeal or further amend the sunset, repeal, and termination section.
 And whereas the Orders Review Committee recommends extending the sunset date to allow for consideration of amendments to the City's short-term rental regulations and to allow continued operation of short-term rentals for a one-year period. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determines that Ordinance 6427, Sunset Clause, and Ordinance 6625, extending the Sunset Clause, be amended so that Ordinance 6427 and all amendments to the code sections ordained or enacted by Ordinance 6427 shall automatically sunset, be repealed, and become void on December 31st, 2024, unless prior to that date, City Council amends this ordinance repeal or further amend this sunset repeal and termination section.
 Okay. Holly. Thank you, Mayor and Council. The Ordinance Review Committee met on November 1st to discuss continuing the short-term rental ordinance, and we voted to extend the sunset clause to prevent the ordinance from being terminated, and we will be meeting again on November 29th to discuss additional conditions, possible conditions to add to the ordinance, but for now we are just recommending that we extend the ordinance to December 31st, 2024.
 Thank you. Okay, what discussion would we like to have? Yes. Bob, we'll get you a mic. Hang on. Testing, testing. Oh, Lordy, are you sure you want me to have this?
 I for one you know I spent the last three months knocking doors we knocked almost 1600 doors talked to hundreds of people um I think of the hundreds of people we talked to almost all of them be really happy if I voted no on this and we ended this and but but I know that would throw everything into chaos and we can't we don't want to do that uh and I will say that I 100 support uh type one
 Short-term rentals, I think we should make that process easy. We should make, you know, somebody come down, fill out a form, and go to business. If somebody wants to rent out a spare bedroom because their kids moved out, if somebody goes on vacation for three months and wants to help pay for that and rent out their house, if somebody wants to rent out their ADU, I'm fine with that. These type two rentals have turned into a commodity.
 And they're eating up our neighborhoods. We already have pretty much zero rental availability in this city. In the last year, rents were up 20%. It's only rising. And again, and what I'm seeing is because I've been to the planning commission multiple times now to speak up on this issue for individual permits, whether they be in my neighborhood or my ward. And I see it's almost like these people are getting coached.
 on how to get the Planning Commission to approve their short-term rental permit. And one in particular is on MLK, and they got it, and they went up, and they told their story, and they got their permit. And I drove by a few days later after they got their permit, and they had a for sale sign outside. And so what people are doing, and it's obvious to me, is what people are doing, they're getting their CUPs,
 And then they're putting their houses on the market because while the business permit doesn't transfer with ownership, the CUP does. And so people are getting the conditional use permit so they can operate a business in a commercial enterprise in a residential zone. And then they're putting that house on the market and they're able to say, hey, look at this added value, driving the cost of housing up, taking away from our rental stock.
 And our people are feeling pain on this. Now, I understand that there's the Privacy, Public, Private Property Protection Act. But we're not in the business of just supporting business. We're in the business of supporting the residents of Fayetteville. And there's a lot of pain being felt there.
 What I'd like to see is, number one, 12 months is a long time. We've, you know, we just had 12 months and now we're asking for 12 more. We had 20 months before that. I want a sense of urgency on that. So I plan, you know, maybe after discussion here to put together, to forward an amendment that we look at this on a quarterly basis, that we bring this up.
 in three months. And if we can't tackle the whole thing, maybe the first thing we could do is we could pull out the type ones, get that dealt with.
 and get that codified. And then, you know, I have a number of things that I was gonna bring forward as ordinances, but knowing how this process is working, maybe I could work with the ordinance committee and get them on as amendments. One would be no short-term rentals, type twos within a certain distance of a school.
 of a public school. We want our prioritized public schools for our families. We want kids to be able to walk and bike to school. It's been found when you do this that kids succeed better, that they have a better outcome
 And it's a safety issue. If we have people coming here for the game, they're unfamiliar with the neighborhoods, they might be partying a little bit, depending on how the hogs do, we're probably partying either way, win or lose. And so it's a safety issue in our neighborhoods with this traffic that's not here. It's a nuisance issue with our residents where they don't know their neighbors anymore because they don't have neighbors. What they have is people coming in week in, week out,
 Always somebody new. Some people might be well-behaved. Some people might be having a giant party. Everybody I've talked to is tired of this.
 not just the neighbors that have to live next to it, but again, the people that are trying to seek housing. And we have a literal housing crisis. So whether we put a moratorium, whether we slowly phase this out, we definitely don't need to ramp it up. I know we're getting close to the limit, the cap we put on, and I'm thankful for that. But I wanna make sure that
 You know, one of my constituents got in touch with me and said that he had to, he wanted to put in a, he has a carport, he wanted to turn it into a garage, and I think maybe a little ADU there. He had to contact, you know, notify all his neighbors. He had to send out 16 notifications. Most of them were to out-of-state investment, you know, LLCs and short-term investors. Right.
 Why we're prioritizing an investor class over just our residents and why we're commercializing our residential, residentially zoned neighborhoods, we're in the middle of a housing crunch. I have no idea why we're doing that and I don't like it and neither do my voters, my constituents.
 So those are some of the things. I have a number of things that I think we could do. Increased notification. When one of these goes before planning commission, Evelyn and I had a house three houses away, and we had no idea until the week of that they were applying for a short-term rental.
 And it was because I guess maybe we were 201 feet or 205 feet away, but it was literally three houses away. I think everybody on a city block should know when and where these are going in so that they can get up and speak against these. I'm concerned about tax fraud. The people that are operating these things illegally, you know, if they're using Airbnb, if they're using Vrbo, they're probably paying their taxes because that's how those businesses work.
 But if somebody's using Craigslist, Facebook Marketplace, if those people are doing it that way, there's a good chance they're committing tax fraud and not paying their HMR tax. And I want to make sure we have measures in place that we can have fines or penalties for people committing tax fraud. It's a crime.
 Yeah, I think those are some of my main points, but I would like us to revisit this more than once a year. I think we need some urgency on this. Our people are hurting. Our real estate market is out of control and we're handing it over to the investor class. And meanwhile, you know, people can't, their kids can't find a place to live when they move out of the house and they have to move out of the city. The whole reason I'm here is because Sonya Harvey couldn't find affordable housing in Ward 1.
 At the same time, the chair of the Arts Council had to move, had to resign and move out of Fayetteville because she couldn't find affordable housing in Fayetteville. These are people with decent paying jobs, good jobs.
 We're not just talking about the bottom of the, you know, we're talking about working class people. We're talking about our teachers, our firefighters, our police officers, our nurses, our people in our creative economy. And we have to take this seriously. So this is something I'm very passionate about, obviously, and that I want us to not kick the can another year. But maybe it takes a year, but I want to address it on a quarterly basis.
 quarterly basis that we so that we can measure how we're moving forward on this. Okay, who's first? So my question is for maybe city attorney or staff the sunset clause if we vote against extending the sunset clause, does that outlaw Airbnb's? It does. It makes everything illegal.
 If the sunset clause is allowed to not, to actually we hit it and we haven't done anything to extend it, then at that point we go right back to before we ever, before you all ever passed the short-term rental ordinance, which means every short-term rental would no longer be legal because they were illegal before that. They were like a business in a residential zone. It's make them legal now.
 the city council had to pass that ordinance. I guess I didn't I guess I didn't phrase that correctly because I knew that I Guess what I was really trying to find out is did we go back to what we had before which was it was illegal But everybody was doing it and we had no recourse at all. So Okay, that's what I wanted to know I am NOT a
 you know I think I think we have measures in place you know and I'm in favor of extending this because you know we're trying to work this out where we can have
 I guess the little bit of the best of both worlds. People can have short-term rentals if they want to, but we have control over them. And we always have the option of as everything is modified and as things are changing, we can adapt our policies as well. And so that's just the way I feel. Thank you.
 I think I was next, I think, but somebody wants to go ahead of me. That's okay too. I just wanted to, I think we're making good progress. Certainly, of course, we would like to be further along than we are, but that brings me up to the enforcement report.
 If that's available and it has been summarized and is digestible and if we can, and if it's on the, if it's on the council's agenda in the near future. It was, I can't.
 i can't recall i'm sorry councilmember if you were at i don't think you attended the last ordinance review a summary was offered there that's something that staff can certainly offer at an agenda session if that would be helpful as well i also have the short-term rental numbers that councilmember bunch asked for at agenda session i wasn't aggressive enough to get in there after uh the the ordinance reading however if that would be helpful i can pull that up now too
 That would be great. And I'd love to hear the report at agenda session if there's an opportunity. Certainly. Again, this is purely the raw numbers of what has been issued or what is in consideration. As of yesterday afternoon, we've had 93 type one short-term rental business licenses issued as a reminder. Again, type ones are those where they're not permanently used as short-term rentals. They have a permanent resident and they're periodically rented out as a short-term rental.
 There are 410 type 2 short-term rental business licenses that have been issued, of which 37, however, are in some state of renewal since we are still in renewal season.
 Those that are in review, either for conditional use permit or initial business licensing, there's 12 Type 1s, 48 Type 2s. And as those numbers relate to the cap, as a reminder, Type 2s contribute to the cap. So we're at 458 towards that 475 cap, meaning there are about 17 available for a Type 2 rental at this point.
 Thank you. I wanted to address Councilmember Stafford and let you know this is not something that we just look at once a year. The ordinance review can meet multiple times a year and we have and we are very open to other council members suggestions so any of your amendments I would welcome to email to me and we can get that on the next agenda.
 Okay, now, but are those, is your progress reported? Oh. Is your progress reported here at city council meetings? Yes, sir. Okay. And I do believe there's an orders review committee scheduled for next Wednesday. There is, yes. November 29th at 530. Okay.
 I have a question also about ordinance review. Do you allow members of the public to ask questions at ordinance review? Yes, we do. Okay. And anyone can attend ordinance review or watch it online?
 Yeah, we have hybrid meetings and we invite the public to attend and comment. We have a section for public comment and then we also welcome any council members to join and we've allowed them to participate just as we would an ordinance review committee member. Thank you. My question would be for Kit. Considering we have an ordinance in place allowing the short-term rentals,
 If we were to not approve this sunset and it goes away, doesn't that put the city in significant legal peril with property owners that presently have a short-term rental license? I hope not. I mean, that's the whole reason we did a sunset clause. So it gives the city council a lot of leeway to go up or down in density or other things to make changes to the ordinance that maybe the property owners wouldn't like.
 But since the same ordinance that made them legal in the first place is automatically going to sunset unless you all do something about it, then I would certainly assert that they have no
 a property interest in their short-term rental because it's all dependent upon whether or not that ordinance is continued. And if the same ordinance that created them, uncreates them, destroys them, then I don't think that we really would be suffering there. However, there's always an issue and I can't guarantee what would happen on that, but that's the whole reason behind the sunset is to give the city council
 a lot of discretion and power to adjust this short-term rental ordinance as people might want it adjusted.
 and not be in fear that if you adjust it and say you can't have as many, which you've already lowered the cap once, or if you're going to change the density or change the location or something like this, that I think you can still do that because of the sunset clause, because if someone then challenges us and says, oh, that ordinance is illegal, well, that means that that ordinance goes away, then they're illegal.
 because that's the only thing that makes short-term rentals legal in the city. And we'd go back to our normal zoning, which would not allow short-term rentals. I guess I misunderstood a conversation in the ordinary. I thought you or Blake had mentioned something about property values plus 20%. Yeah, the Private Property Protection Act is our biggest danger in this, and that is if a new regulation –
 reduces the property value of a piece of property by 20% or more, then that property owner can litigate against us. And if the jury finds it more than 20%, then we would be potentially liable to have to pay for that. It's like an inverse condemnation. The reason that I originally placed or asked the city council to place a sunset clause on this is because the regulation
 It was new, but the new regulation just created the short-term rentals. They were never allowed before to authorize short-term rentals when they were illegal before. But with the sunset clause that would automatically terminate that, then from a legal point of view, they never really, until the ordinance becomes permanent.
 which I think it will, at some point, you all are going to probably have to say you've done everything you want to do on the short-term rental ordinance, and it's going to be permanent. That would be the time that they would then have a property interest in a short-term rental. Before that,
 it's really all temporary and if you all do nothing, then in the future, then the whole ordinance goes away and there's no more legal short-term rentals. So I think that's why I put it in there. I can't guarantee that would give us absolute protection, but that's the best protection I could find.
 And I do think that we need more time than a quarterly thing because I think that you'll discover, Council Member Stafford, that sometimes these difficult issues are very difficult to resolve. And they've been working on it for a long time. It took a long time to adopt the short-term rental ordinance because it's very complicated and controversial. And so were changes to that. And so that is why it's difficult to make real fast progress now.
 I do hope that after this one, that I hope you pass tonight, I hope that next year we'll be to a point where we can just say, okay, we've done everything we need to do.
 And we're going to want to make it permanent. And some people might just vote against it. I don't want it at all. You don't have to, but I hope that if, if you do get it fine tuned that well, eventually we do need to make it permanent, I think. And, but I think it might take a full year to try to get all of the rest of the changes that various council members might want to at least be considered whether or not they're all adopted or not. And that's,
 It's a difficult process, and we've had other ordinances that take a long time to get to the final end. And normally we wouldn't have a sunset clause, but the Private Property Protection Act made it where if we don't have a sunset clause, then you could never go backwards. You could never reduce the amount that you're offering to the short-term rentals, like reduce the number of persons that would be allowed in a short-term rental. You could never even consider that.
 And so that's why we have a sunset clause to give the city council the discretion and authority To make changes to the short-term rentals that the current operators might not like I echo some of the concerns that were expressed by council member Stafford You know, I've had a little bit of time on council and absolutely understand. This has been a conversation that's been evolving over a number of years, but also to the information and
 in regard to our housing crisis and the shortage of available rentals has become much more sharpened and focused for us too when we've gotten concrete numbers from our planning department who's done such a great job in long-range planning of identifying the tremendous gap that we have. And so I think we have to look at all available levers and think about, you know, this is 500 available units, you know, more really with the illegal operating
 They're not available housing stocks. So when I start to think about where thousands of units behind in available housing and effective 0% available rental, I start to think about, I need to solve that as fast as possible because that's my brother and that's my cousin. It's students that come here that unfortunately end up in an unhoused situation. And I know that all of us don't stand for that, right?
 I think we have to weigh all of the considerations, but at the end of the day too, I think we also are being tasked with coming up with a full solution on how we're coming up with these 2,000 units. And I see this 500, and it's a real big possibility for what could become available on the
 on the market. So I hope we'll all at least kind of sit in consideration of that, knowing weighing all those long conversations we've had and those pros and cons, but also knowing how tight this market really has gotten. And I look forward to hearing the additional comments, but much like
 Councilmember Stafford, when I was campaigning a year ago, I heard that consistently across the 3,000 doors. I never heard anyone say continue type 2s. I often heard please discontinue these because I'm actually going to lose my 10-year lease because they want to turn it into a type 2.
 I would like to remind everyone that there is the possibility that if 500 units go away from having short-term licenses, they don't just automatically go into long-term rentals.
 There's always a possibility that somebody could have rent their house out by the month, which is perfectly acceptable, furnished, and it's not going to be as affordable as, you know, especially if it's downtown. It's not going to end up being super affordable just by virtue of its location. So that's just, you know, that unfortunately is just the market that we are in. But 500 units, you know, it doesn't just absolutely translate to,
 500 more affordable units. So just please keep that in mind, but people can rent them by the month or two months or whatever and it's not the same as somebody that wants a place for a year. So they can rent it for just like a month. A month is perfectly
 It's like an executive rental. It's a, you know, Lindsay has them, other apartment buildings have them where you need a place for three months or two months or whatever.
 Yes, sir. I understand your point on the midterm rentals or the month-long or longer rentals. We have a lot of people, professors coming here to work at the university. We have executives coming down working up at Walmart and J.B. Hunt Tyson and other places. Now, I don't think that market is that gigantic that it's going to absorb all those. I think we'll have some go to short or longer term rentals, obviously some for those executive rentals.
 and um or or some will probably put up for sale and enter the housing market again um kit i have a question for you uh so say we say this gets extended uh kick down the road again and um is so that we have the time to work on it and get all the amendments and everything done uh does that preclude us from acting faster
 like maybe like separating out type ones and codifying type one short-term rentals, or does that lock us into waiting a year? No, I don't think it actually stops you from acting faster. That'd be a difficult thing, but maybe not impossible to separate the short-term rental one from two, because they're talked about in the ordinances together.
 However, I think the short-term rental ones really have been treated very differently, and Jonathan could explain more on that. So this is a difficult concept. It's got a lot of moving parts, and it really needs to be studied a lot to be able to make a reasonable explanation or suggestion of what should be happening. And I'll let Jonathan talk about the short-term number one, which are...
 uh really treated far differently than a short-term rental too certainly i i agree with mr williams the type two short-term rentals are treated very differently i think many of you all on the day has recognized that they don't require conditional use permits is probably the most prominent uh distinction between them they don't there's no public hearing associated with it uh they don't require that discretionary approval from the planning commission uh
 also at the Mr. Williams point, the majority of the amendments that have been made to the short-term rental since it's April, 2021 adoption have been out of sequence with the sunset. They've been in between those, the renewal of the sunset. So I hope if that's a concern that should not give you pause, I hope. There are definitely opportunities year round. I think last year when the sunset was reaffirmed or reset,
 the amendment had been approved the very previous council meeting or the very subsequent one so there are certainly opportunities to do it in between when the sunset needs to be considered
 And one of the purposes of the sunset clause was not only to remain, let the city council have further discussions and discretion, but also to see how the project was working. How is it, where's the pitfalls, what was good, what should be extended? If the city council within six months came up with an ordinance that the majority of the city council liked, then they could repeal the sunset clause right there. And then that would be permanent. So...
 putting it out a year gives another potential year to to work on this but if you can come to a resolution quicker then it can certainly be concluded right at that time well and so we've had pretty much 30 months two and a half years to this point from when the original april 2021 till now is it somewhere around there that's correct since april 2020 okay um and and if we
 And I understand maybe quarterly is a little tight. But if we say six months, I mean, there's nothing keeping us from giving ourselves another six months or another year at that point, right? If I said, okay. Because a year is a long time. 30 months is a long time. And then 12 months extra, we're looking at 42 months or plus or minus. And again, I have a hard time.
 giving us ourselves too long of a leash. You know, I want to, I think there does need to be some urgency on this in my view. So I'd like to, and procedurally, I don't know how this works right. Hopefully I do this right. But I'd like to offer an amendment to extend the sunset for six months instead of a year. Why don't you make it a date certain? Excuse me?
 This one extends it until December 31st of 2024. So if you want to extend it for six months and make it a date certain in like July 1st or something like that, or June 30th. It's just clearer than an extension time. Yeah. I'd like to make an amendment that we just extend the sunset to June 30th, 2024. Okay.
 Thank you. Okay, what discussion would we like to have?
 Thank you, Mayor. I hear your intent. I realize that you've just come off the campaign trail and you've talked to a lot of folks. And this is an issue. And the university is growing by leaps and bounds and eating up all the affordable housing here. But I think there's an opportunity throughout the year to make these amendments, to make these adjustments to the current code. And so I don't feel that...
 putting a six-month limit on there will actually get things moving any faster or put any more pressure on us. I think we feel that we need to make these adjustments. I think we're hearing, too. We haven't been knocking on all the doors that you have recently, but we're getting a lot of emails. And so I do feel...
 councilmember Stafford that we are we are definitely in tune with that and and so at this time I won't support that because I think we're making good headway any other discussion okay we did have motion second is there a vote on the air we're fixing to do just that you give me just a sec mayor are we gonna take public comment not only amendment okay
 Okay, Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Ward? Yes. Weider? No. Verna? No. Bunch? No. Kirk? No. Perksworth? No. The amendment failed.
 Well, let's thrash on here, shall we? Mayor, can we take some public comment now? Do what? Could we take some public comment on the sunset, please? I'm done talking. I'm going to go to public comment. Okay. Okay.
 we'll take some public comment now everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that yes please introduce yourself hi my name is delaney bartlett i'm founder of fayetteville strong i reside at 325 south gregg avenue right next to the ramble
 So,
 In my neighborhood, we have a short-term rental that is almost directly across the street from my house, and it is an absolute nightmare. You know, maybe half of the time the residents are fine, whatever, but half of the time they're loud, they're noisy, they leave trash. They basically terrorize the neighborhood, speed down our narrow little residential street, and it's awful. I'm sure you've heard probably dozens of stories just like mine.
 So who cares? Let's look at the bigger picture as Congress or councilmember Stafford was saying we have a massive crisis right now in affordability, and we don't need to be using up the limited housing stock that we have in these short-term rentals and
 So I'm going to support whatever ordinance comes out of this to regulate this more to protect the residents versus the investor class who don't even live here. They aren't the ones who have to deal with not being able to find affordable housing to deal with these bad neighbors, you know, tearing up the streets and running over people's pets and keeping people up at night.
 The other thing I would just like to close with before I go is I know I'm not allowed to ask questions of anyone, but I would recommend that if anyone owns a short-term rental or has a financial stake in a short-term rental, that it might present a conflict of interest. I don't know if anyone on the council has that, but I just want to bring that up and put that on the record. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address in the chamber?
 Okay. Come on up. Hi.
 Hi, my name is Billy. I live at Billy Cook. I live at 1151 East Shepherd Lane. I had prepared some remarks, but most of the members of this body have already said everything I wanted to say. However, I will just say that in my community organizing work, I work with low income people and I talk to a lot of high earners as well. And very few of them have positive things to say about short term rentals. The high earners, the values, the nature and character of their neighborhoods, their neighbors are no longer their neighbors.
 To low-income people, it is gobbling up the supply of housing that we have that is so drastically low. And it would seem as though this body is determined to extend this for another year. And so I implore you to take that period of time to explore the tangible steps and options that this city can take in stabilizing our out-of-control housing market.
 I think that short-term rentals are certainly not the end-all, be-all in how we fix that problem, but they are certainly a necessary cog in the overall process. And so anything we can do to increase the supply of housing at all costs, this body should take every action it can to do that. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? Have anybody on Zoom? Okay.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Evelyn Rios Stafford, 527 South Sherman. I don't know if I'm getting in trouble for speaking up here tonight. But during this campaign cycle, I personally knocked on hundreds of doors and this wasn't me bringing up this issue. This was people talking about this issue during this last campaign cycle. I heard from people one-on-one at their door about these type two short-term rentals, about how they had to work effectively
 to organize their neighbors, to figure out what the city's process was to fight these. And they're tired because they may have won one battle in their neighborhood only to have another behind it and another behind that. And they feel exhausted and they feel defeated and they feel demoralized by multiple numbers of these moving into their neighborhoods. I heard from people at their doors who say,
 that they had owners or operators of these lie to the faces of the people sitting up here at this horseshoe and lie to the Planning Commission about how
 they intended to use their permits to say, you know, these are mostly gonna be for out of town families to come stay so that they can come visit. And we're barely ever gonna use these as a type two, only to once they get it, that it is 24 seven, a type two rental with none of those family members in existence at all. Not a single person.
 was in favor of letting these type two short-term rentals continue. So I don't know who is advocating in favor of these, because out of hundreds of doors, I didn't hear a single one when we were out there. And I don't know why we want to prioritize out-of-state investors over the working people of this city.
 So just letting you all know, I'm sure you all hear lots of stuff in your emails, in your inboxes, last year knocking doors, things like that. But I just want to let you know the perspective, the firsthand things that I was hearing out there just in the last few months. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello, I'm Alexandra Paulson. My address is 1151 East Shepherd Lane.
 And I don't have too much to add with what everyone else has already said. I will echo what everyone has said. And I would just say short term, like in residential areas, short term rentals are I think like it's an experiment that has not had the greatest results. And there is a reason why cities that are further along in their housing crisis, such as like Austin, Texas, have worked to have tried to pass ordinances banning them outright in residential areas.
 short-term rentals they take away from the or affordable housing in Fayetteville like as someone in my 20s that is Like whenever like trying to look for an apartment it's usually a months-long slog to find anything that is affordable for me because of how scarce housing is in this city and and
 Yeah, and I would also echo what someone said that for like I think like if any like About like if there's any potential conflicts of interest. I don't know but yeah, like I think short-term rentals, I don't think it's like I think we definitely need to scrutinize them more and Make sure that we are Taking action on regulating them. Thank you. Thank you I
 My name is Jewel Hayes. I live down on Mountain Street, down the road. If Airbnbs are a problem and they've been unregulated in the past, but we don't want them in general, why don't we do action against just Airbnb to not allow them to list them on their website? That would be a pretty simple way to finish type 2 rentals. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, Susan, check. Who do you have on Zoom? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Well, let's bring it back. Mayor Jordan? Yes. Before we go on to the next section, I just wanted to answer the question that the citizen had, which was regarding what the council has to fill out each and every year, and every official that runs for public office has to fill out a statement of financial interest.
 as well as the planning commissioners and currently sitting officials like the City Council have to fill out real estate holdings forms that is in the ordinance for the City of Fayetteville as a requirement. Okay, now bring it back to the council. Well, where are we here? Yes, DeAndre. I don't know. I can't hear you.
 Oh. Is it already? Okay, I feel like I'm in charge, but anyway, I'm a part of the ordinance review committee and I really appreciate the work that Holly, especially, she's been very diligent and she's done a great job leading us.
 And here recently, I've heard from a lot of the constituents in Ward 1 echoing what Councilmember Stafford has said and others have said. My question is, what would be the harm in reviewing this in six months?
 I mean, I just want to know is because what I don't want to happen is we are in a housing crisis. And I just believe that we have to do we have to utilize absolutely every tool in the toolbox. And I believe that I just would like to know what would be the harm in revisiting this in six months? Yeah.
 to show the citizens that we are hearing them and that we are concerned and that we're doing and that we understand the challenges that come with the housing crisis. So could any of my peers tell me, like, what would be the real problem? We're actually going to revisit this next week. Okay. And we revisit this all the time. So anytime you want something heard, please let me know and we'll schedule a meeting. Okay. As far as...
 the citizens, making sure that they're able to come and be a part of the meeting. Because this is what I'm I understand why we're doing what we're doing. But I just want those individuals, our community members to understand the process like we do everything else. And so, again, I'm just wanting to know.
 what bob stated what what bob put forward this evening what i don't know just like what is the real challenge with us just revisiting revisiting this in six months but i i'm willing to bring something forth uh at our next meeting and hopefully our citizens will be willing
 to do the same because there are a lot of individuals in ward one who are concerned about that award one is my priority like ward four is yours and more three is yours. And so I do want them to have an opportunity to be involved and to be engaged and especially those individuals who are impacted by the housing crisis. I really want them to understand this process and be able to weigh in.
 And hopefully that's everyone else's concern, but I do know that Ward 1 is really being impacted, and that is my responsibility this evening. I would just say that my version to the six-month, number one, we did vote on it and it did not pass, but my version was speed is not always accuracy.
 And we are working on it as an ordinance review committee. We're open to community involvement in that process. And again, we work to get it right the first time and not having to go back and fix something that we move too fast on. So it's not we're not doing anything. It's we're trying to get it right. We're trying to get an ordinance that is beneficial to the whole city of Fayetteville.
 So just understand that that process moves a little slower than just, you know, everybody wants us to twinkle our nose and make it happen. And that's just not the way it works. And doing a six month window just puts us on a real tight time frame that we're moving fast. And at any point.
 the year-long process or the year-long sunset at any point as the city attorney said at any point we get it right we can move on it at that point so that i guess that's the reason that i voted for against the six months yeah mike i i think you're queued up thank you mr mayor um i i also want to commend the ordinance review committee um
 I've submitted quite a few ideas, some good, some not so good. But that group of council members has waded through everything that I've ever submitted to them and treated those ideas respectfully. And I just think that when you look at us going from nearly 900 short-term rentals to a cap of about half of that,
 That's fairly significant. For me, it's not that there's magic in one year, but I look at the city of New Orleans that had a lawsuit and they lost. I'm looking at the city of New York that's currently engaged in a lawsuit. Both of those cities have significant legal resources.
 and they found themselves challenged in court and one has lost and the other's pending. And so I would like to see the court affirm our legal authority to act on these and
 I know that for me, the concentration of short-term rentals is our most challenging objective to try to come up with some rational, reasonable way for regulating the concentration. And I think that's the biggest challenge our ordinance review group has. So I commend them for moving the ball forward and know that this is definitely not an easy task. So thank you for your time. Marietta Robinson Sir.
 Yes, I tend to, you know, Mike brought up some really good points about the six months versus the year is not a magical number. But knowing how much time some of my fellow council members have already put in on trying to come up with the best solution on this, you know, I just don't think I could pull the rug out from under them just in one night. I don't think that's really possible.
 You know, I don't think that speeds things up. I agree on that. And, you know, every, the ordinance review, all of these, you know, some of the committees we have with the city have representatives from each ward on them.
 And then, you know, so there's someone from Ward 4, there's someone from Ward 3, Ward 2, Ward 1. And if you, you know, and then we also have as opportunity, I'm not on ordinance review, but I watch their meetings, I participate with Zoom, you know, so if it's really an issue for you as a counselor, you have the opportunity every single day to participate in that.
 and especially if you're on that that review that ordinance review you know just just to show up and participate in it but um and again people can come to the meetings too but i think when we're working through these issues it it sounds good to move more quickly but there's already been a tremendous amount of effort put into trying to get this right the first time
 and trying to, you know, do things that are protective of our community and yet also, you know, not just, not just bowing down to investors from out of state, but, but, you know, also recognizing that, you know, we don't want to get in a position where we end up
 And if you follow what goes on, like Mike said, in New Orleans and New York and other cities, other cities are having big problems as well. So they're all working through the same issues. So I just encourage everybody on council to show up at that ordinance review next week. You can be there in person or you can show up via Zoom if you want to. I will definitely try to be there next week.
 Now, just to counter the time argument, six months is not a lot of time, but we are not at month six. We are at month 30. Six months will be month 36. Twelve months will be month 42, almost four years. And we are in a housing crisis. Can I ask how many times did the ordinance committee meet last year? I lost track.
 Does anyone have that number? Do you have a record? It would take me a moment, but yes. Okay. While they're looking that up another point on the lawsuit point, it seems what's being said is, well, we opened the can of worms and because we opened the can of worms, we can never put the lid back on. We open Pandora's box. So we can't vote no on this. We can't shut this down. We have to march forward. My, my,
 reading of the sunset clause is it was put there to protect us from being sued that we're saying we're going to try this as a trial period and See how it works take a look at it See, you know what we do as far as limits and so forth and rules But the fact that there is a Suncliff cause was put there kid Am I right so that we could shut this down and kind of have some protection. Is that a correct? Is that
 It gives the city council a lot of power, in my opinion, and they've already used it because they reduced the total number allowed from almost cut it in half. And if we had just passed the ordinance with no sunset clause.
 We could have had problems from that. But the sunset clause is my best ability to protect what the city council is doing. There's no guarantee that it will work perfectly, even when we... But anyway, it's something I think we ought to continue so that the city council maintains the power to make the adjustments that the majority of the city council believes is necessary. Okay. Okay.
 So, you know, I didn't expect my first city council meeting. I didn't know this was up on the agenda. Last Tuesday was election night. And I wasn't hoping for this to rear its ugly head on the first meeting. And so I'm sorry if I'm a little passionate. This is one of the things that, you know, was a big talking point on our from, from our constituents as we ran. So it is something I'm passionate about. It is something where I see the pain points on. And, and again, you know,
 I don't see my, I see my job here is for the citizens of Fayetteville, for the residents of Fayetteville, and not for a, you know, and I don't want this to be taken wrong, but I'm not here to work just for like an investor class or something. I'm here to work for everybody.
 And so, you know, pardon me if I'm a little bit overly passionate on this, but it is something that was brought up by our voters. I, you know, if we get this 12 months, you know, I asked for six. I didn't get it. I can't say I'm going to necessarily vote for this. I understand that, you know, sometimes chaos is good. And sometimes chaos will cause us, force us into faster action. Yeah.
 BUT, YEAH, I JUST WANT US TO HAVE A SENSE OF URGENCY ABOUT THIS. AGAIN, WE ARE, YOU KNOW, I KNOW YOU SAY IT LONG ENOUGH AND PEOPLE ARE LIKE HOUSING CRISIS, HOUSING CRISIS. NO, WE SERIOUSLY ARE. OUR MARKET HERE, OUR HOUSING MARKET IS INSANE. OUR RENTAL MARKET, WE HAVE ZERO AVAILABILITY. SAY 1%. THAT'S ZERO.
 So again, I just want some urgency and sorry if I'm a little bit brash in my arguments to try to force that, but it's just kind of where I'm at. Thank you. Mayor, in answer to Council Member Stafford's question, the Ordinance Review Committee will have met seven times after next week's meeting this year. Okay, that's a fair amount. I just want to make sure that they were meeting. Mayor, I have a comment.
 Yes. This year, the ordinance review has focused mostly on the concentration issue and also the enforcement issue. And I think that it's important to note that we do have an enforcement mechanism right now with the ordinance as is. And if the ordinance is terminated, we will no longer have an enforcement mechanism that is quick and easy. We would have to go through the city prosecutor's office, which would take a lot longer. So I feel like if we're talking about affordable housing, the ordinance as is is more protective
 of that because we do have an enforcement mechanism to shut down illegal type twos. Okay, this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What action would you all like to take? To that point, I have one final question. Does this need a, is this the meeting where this needs to pass or fail or
 Yes, we need to have it passed to make sure there's no issue about, because most, some ordinances which are general and permanent take 31 days to become effective. And so we're running up against the December 31st deadline. Teresa. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Motion second to go to the second reading. Kerridge, please call the roll.
 Stafford yes Jones yes Moore yeah Weedeker yes Berna yes but yes yes Hertzberg yes and orange some and ordinance 6427 and ordinance 6625 to extend the sunset provision for short-term rental regulations to December 31st 2024
 i move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second the motion is second go third and final reading care which please call the row stafford yes jones yes moore yeah wedeker
 Yes. Fair enough? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. In order to amend Ordinance 6427 and Ordinance 6625 to extend the sunset provision for short-term rental regulations through December 31st, 2024. Okay. What final comments do we have, counsel? I want to thank the Ordinance Review Committee for taking this item up, and I know it's been a grind.
 because I actually worked with staff to bring the very first one that we found in a magazine, and there was about 400 of those things out there that we didn't even, I didn't even know about. They had no controls on them. We wasn't getting any tax dollars off them. They weren't paying any taxes. They were just renting them out, no telling what kind of safety issues that people were being put in either.
 But we tightened it up. Now, this is something that we passed that sort of in a hurry. And now we're redoing it. And I know I'm as impatient as anybody to get this done because this thing has gone on a long time.
 We certainly want to do it right. And I think the ordinance review and your holding public comments and council members can come to all those meetings. I mean, I don't know who's always on that. I know that it's open to the public. People can come and participate. Council members can participate. And just because you pass a year doesn't mean that you can't bring something back in two months if you get it ready.
 i'm just saying i want to thank the ordinance review committee for the work that they've done and will continue to do okay all right i don't have anything else care which please call the role stafford no jones nope more now weedaker
 yes Erna yes yes Turk yes Erzberg yes the ordinance passed all right let's go number five resolution to adopt 2024 annual budget and work program thank you
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. What I'm going to do and start off, we had a workshop two weeks ago, roughly two weeks ago, with City Council.
 I produced a 64-page summary. Well, what I'm going to do tonight very quickly is go over a summary of that summary, just to refresh everybody's memory on what I think are the key points. I'll be brief, then I'll take a seat at the table, and we can have discussions. You can ask questions, and I'll give the microphone back to the speaker.
 back to the council so I can hear your questions but let's start out annually the mayor is responsible to bring a budget to the council to an operating budget on what the mayor feels is the city needs to run that operating budget and that is what he is doing at this at this point we want to look at very quickly some of the slides and I'll
 I'll just go over a couple of high-level points with you. First slide, please. As we look at the total number of funds for the city, we can see that the largest funds are the general fund, 73.
 $3.3 million water and sewer fund is the next largest one Fifty five point seven million dollars and the sales tax bond and that is the debt service for the sales tax That's the money we pay That we have to pay to pay off those bonds. That's a liability side is thirty four point five million dollars over
 All of those amount to roughly two-thirds of the total budget. The total operating budget we're looking at is $241.6 million. That's up roughly $25 million for this year compared to last.
 Again, if we look at the next slide, and this displays graphically what we just talked about. If we can see,
 The general fund is the blue. That's 30%, water and sewer 23%. And the sales tax bond fund is 14.3%. So those are by far the overriding operating funds that we're dealing with in total. Again, the total budget for operations is $241.6 million.
 Now remember, this does not include amounts such as remaining bond funds, uncompleted projects, et cetera, which I'll bring forward to you in January to amend the budget at that point in time. Let's go to the next slide, please. When we look at that total budget, next slide, please.
 When we look at the total budget, we can see that personnel services are 35.4%. That's of all of the funds. Service and charges are 35.4%.
 13.4 percent, those are the two highest in the operating category. The debt service fund is 16 percent again. Remember that's to pay off the bond liability. The faster we do that, the better and the less interest cost of those bonds. The capital is 9.5 percent of the total budget.
 Again, $241.6 million operating budget, up $25 million compared to the prior year. Most of that is for salary increases that we approved this year, that we brought to the council and you approved, plus some new positions and a contingency for potential raises that we have estimated at this point in time.
 Those will be recommended to you in the first quarter upon results of the salary survey. Again, if we look at that graphically, we can see the large blue is the personnel services, and that's 35% of the budget. Now, when we put all of these funds together, the personnel services are 35%, just over a third.
 of the total when we start looking at the general fund, that's gonna be much more labor intensive among a much larger portion of that budget. Let's look at how we spend the money. So we'll go to the next slide. When we look at the operations, now I'm not gonna include debt service or any of the trust funds right now. So when I'm talking about
 operating activity. I'm talking about $176.7 million of that operating total. We can see number one, water and sewer operations by activity is the largest one. That's 26% of the total operations portion of the budget.
 Public safety is 16%. So that's our commitment to public safety. Fire is 11% of that total, and trash and recycling is 9% of that total, it's $16 million. So you can see graphically what activities the total budget addresses.
 If we go to the next slide, we're going to talk about new personnel for the funds that we're recommending. We'll look at it first. Again, in the general fund.
 we're recommending 10.2 new positions. 1.2 of that is for parks programs and they will have revenue associated with them. That means nine new positions will be newly funded,
 When the mayor and I looked at this very carefully, we felt that we needed to prioritize and recommend only what was necessary at that point of time. Remember also the mayor's responsibility is to produce a responsible budget based on revenue estimates at that point in time. Look very carefully, there were over 30 positions requested in the general fund.
 look very carefully and are recommending funding only those ones that we felt were very necessary at this point in time. Those were in a facility management, a custodian, information technology, a technical support supervisor. And what this particular position would do is look and coordinate all of the cell phones,
 all of their programs on the cell phones to make sure they're in operating order. This is for protection and make sure we have the latest versions of software because we're concerned about penetration and this we felt was very important to look at at this point in time to prevent potential penetration to our system.
 Public safety, two positions. Those are the SRO officers that we discussed tonight. Again, those were recommended by the city council and approved by the city council tonight to accept the grant money associated.
 recommending two fire code inspectors, something we really don't do at this point in time is ongoing inspection for fire code. We felt that was very important to do at this point in time.
 Again, the next two are the 1.2 positions. Those are parks, and those are recommended because there will be parks program money to fund those. In other words, those are new programs, and they're going to generate the funding to cover those.
 Developmental Services, we're recommending an inspector for commercial and residential building, a permits coordinator, and a plans examiner. Now, that all is in the developmental services area to speed up some of the permitting processes and also address some of the building safety issues associated.
 Drug law enforcement, we're just trading one officer who is currently assigned to the police to the drug law enforcement fund. So that's kind of a wash. So all in all, there are nine new positions recommended that will require funding in the general fund. If we go on to the rest of it, we have three and a half positions in the Parks Development Fund.
 That's the parks development fund that is funded by HMR taxes. That's to address some of the new needs of a horticultural assistant, park planner, and a maintenance worker part-time for urban forestry. We'll want to increase urban forestry and pure planting in the city at this point in time. Again, that's a separate fund and could be affordable from that fund. It's not in the general fund. Water and sewer, two positions.
 utility financial services a person as we continue to grow with the billing and collection we need to expand that and a water sewer maintenance meter technician again that's funded by water and sewer fees
 Recycling and trash collection. We transferred half of Peter Neergaarden, who was fully paid by the sustainability fund before. Half of that position is now going to recycling and trash collection as he is in charge of that division at this point in time. So he split between the two.
 The shop, we're recommending two new equipment mechanics. As we expand, we expand the equipment fleet, and we have more demand for maintenance as we expand the number of vehicles in that fleet. All in all, that will add 18.2 positions in total, bringing up the total positions to 925.7 for the city as a whole. All right.
 Next, I want to look very quickly at the general fund summary. General fund summary, again, is...
 Very critical. That's where most of our labor intensive services are. And we'll look at that. The one thing about the general fund, that is the one fund that can be used for all governmental authorized expenditures. So it can be used in many places.
 We looked at the funding first, so before we address the expenditures, we have to get in line with what we felt the funding was reasonable to project. Sales tax revenue, we were projecting at 6% over what we anticipate collection of this year.
 As you all know, I sent to you the sales tax collections for the month of September. They were at 2%, which was a little lower than what we had anticipated. We still have a couple of months to go to look at what the collections will be to see what we anticipate collecting at the end of the year. We'll get the actual in another couple of months.
 but we felt that was a reasonable forecast at that point in time.
 When we look back at the last 10 years, we were a little over 6%. If we averaged out the last 10 years, we're approximately 9% if we average out the last five years. Again, that's volatile, and we'll have to keep an eye on that particular revenue category. Franchise fees, we conservatively estimated as up about 1.7%, a little under 2%.
 Property tax revenue, 9%. Remember we had to have a little rollback to keep right under 10%, but that we get from the tax assessor at the county and that was their estimate. Fees and fines, we kept flat to what we anticipate collection for this year.
 Turn back was up slightly. We get that from the Municipal League and their estimates. Pension insurance turned back down a little bit from what we had anticipated this year. Building permits we kept flat to what we anticipate this year. Building permits are very volatile.
 alcohol taxes and licenses, we anticipate being up about 2.3% for next year. And if you look and it says all of the revenue down 30%, that's very misleading because those are all our grants that we recognize as they come forward during the year.
 That's what makes that look odd as down. And all of those, again, we anticipate as we come forward during the year into the general fund.
 So if we look at that and we look at that graphically, what does that show? That will show the sales tax. Next slide, please. That'll show the sales tax for the county is in the blue, sales tax for the city is in the red. What we get back from the county is a little larger, but that's 60 percent of our total revenue to fund the general fund. So that's very important.
 Again, let's look at the use of the funds in the general fund very quickly. And if we look at it quickly, we can see that police and fire are the two largest portions. Again, it is very labor intensive in the general fund. And those are the two largest portions.
 divisions and the general fund. Again, they're followed by a community planning and engineering, which is nine percent of financial and internal services, which includes IT is 12 percent. But the largest expenditures are in the public safety division. We look at the next slide.
 We're going to look at the graph and we see in the general fund about 81% is personnel. So it's very labor intensive in the general fund. The next largest categories is services and charges. That's about $7 million. That's where we pay for things like consultants, service providers, things of that nature.
 One thing in the general fund, you don't see much capital in there because the capital is over in the sales tax capital fund. And that's one reason. That's one other reason why the personnel service percentage is high.
 We'll look at the last, the next slide I have for you. We're going to look at the changes to the general fund between last year's budget and this year's budget. If we see the largest change is $7.7 million in personnel.
 is due to the increase for the wages that we granted this year, wage increases. Remember this year we had public safety, public survey, and there were substantial increases to that. It will also include roughly a million dollars in the new nine funds that we looked at.
 If we look at the next largest category, that's insurance. Property insurance and vehicle insurance has gone up
 quite drastically this year, quite dramatically. Now, we have a consultant who does the bidding on this, so we bid this out, but the best quotes we've got are still up $400,000 for this year. Again, motor pool is up.
 because we are expanding the number of vehicles and the repair necessary for those vehicles. Again, we got some utility increases, and most of those are cost increases. But the primary thing I want you to look at is that that's personnel services is what's driving that increase. So we're going from $64.8 million to $73.3 million. If we look at the next page...
 which is page 17 of this particular summary, we can say we're talking about a total revenue expectation of $73.3 million with expenditures of $73.3 million for a balanced budget. Our goal is always to produce a balanced budget.
 Remember when a mayor develops a budget, they have several primary goals.
 Obviously, the first goal is to be financially responsible. Then, of course, we look at attempting to pay our staff comparable fair wages based on a salary survey. To continue to provide the citizens with equal or a little better services if possible that they have been receiving.
 efficiently and effectively use our base to supply those services. So the biggest things we're looking for is financial responsibility.
 we need to pay competitive wages we need to address cost increases and again this year we have a lot of cost increases as we look at the inflation that has been driving this economy for a while and of course the cost allocation because some of these supplies and commodities are difficult to get so that's what we looked at when we formulated this budget we feel this budget is economically well based uh
 When we look at sales tax, and I know we've discussed a little bit. Is that it? Yeah. Unless you give me more time. Paul, how much longer do you think you would need to cover this? Well, I'm about done. I was just going to mention sales tax. Can I give me one minute? Okay. Two minutes then.
 Okay, but sales tax right now, like I said, we're averaging about 6% right now. The last three months have been a little weak. However, we're bringing forward this budget and requesting that you grant and pass this particular budget. Now, if in fact sales tax does not come through to that level, there are certainly a couple of options. Now, the biggest option you look at, we've got a reasonably large,
 reserve at this point in time. You use that reserve to balance out over time and try to keep your delivery of services equal. That's one use of a reserve. Two, it's safety valve if you need it if you have a dramatic change. And three,
 there can also always be potentially things that you can fund that's valuable to the city. And when I say that, I'm gonna use Kessler Park as an example, I'm gonna use Centennial, I'm gonna use Theater Square. So that's what you use as reserves. However, we have sufficient reserves. I think we're going to end this year with roughly $15 million in reserves.
 That's after the 60 percent required reserves for safety valve. We can get into reserves and sufficiently keep going forward. However, we've got to be as responsible as possible, and that's what we've attempted to do. With that, I'm going to turn the microphone over to the left side, and I'll go back to my seat and I'll be happy to answer questions or participate in discussion.
 Okay. Thank you, Paul. We'll have to go back and forth. I'll just come closer. Paul, I've got a question. Can we not afford another knife? Budget cuts. We can't afford another knife. Well, Paul, you're going to have to answer. Can you answer from there? Sure, I can. Okay, perfect. Okay.
 I don't know if I need to run this to you. So whenever you highlighted for 23 going to 24, the increase is being driven by personnel and personnel benefits. Can you please tell us the department top five that are contributing to that number, please?
 We'll tell you what the top... The percentage, top five, what percentages do you have that are broken down by departments that are contributing? Oh, I don't have it off the top of my head, but the largest number of personnel would, well, the top three would be police has the most personnel, then would come fire. Third would be internal services.
 So those are the top three, followed probably by, let's see, engineering. That would be another one. But that's off the top of my head. I don't have those broken out right now. I could certainly get those. Yeah, no, I think that would be a benefit for myself. Thank you. I appreciate you pulling what you knew off the top of your head, too. So thank you. I had another question. Do you have a question? Sure.
 Okay. I have one other question. I'll pass the mic and I can come back to me. I don't know if it's possible for us to talk about that. Whenever we went over the compensation packages for the, I don't know if we're calling it an incentive. I apologize off the top of my head. I can't remember. But in regard to transportation and to public work,
 for those folks. I remember on one of those, and there are certain estimates that have been put in the 2024 budget for the participants that would receive those potential benefits. I was surprised. I didn't realize on one of those incentives that it would take 12 months before. And so I was curious if potentially in what's been budgeted, if there's some buffer in there, because I couldn't come up with a number based on the personnel that every single person
 would almost be accounted for. I don't need that. Okay. Okay.
 So sorry, I was trying to do the math based on the number of personnel that could potentially be impacted and it looked like potentially an accounting for every single available person, which I do appreciate was taken into account for the budget. But given that some of the requirements are lengthy, it didn't look like in 2024 we'd probably realize all of those potentially. So I wondered if you had some buffer that was built into there as we're talking about wiggle room in the budget. I was just curious about how you built that.
 So the budget is going to rely on these guys to talk about it. As far as the 12-month time frame, existing employees will be eligible for that immediately. You can test out for the criteria that were in that 12 months. A little bit of 12 months is for a newer person. It would take them 12 months if that staff that were hired did well enough.
 But the existing employees would recognize that once they had tested out or gone through those modules, which they will do pretty quickly, both step one and step two. And then new employees use it as a recruitment tool, it would take them a long time to do that step two. But step one they would get pretty quickly if they went through the module.
 Missy, you're going to have to have the mic. I'm hearing from others. Yeah. Do you want me to repeat that?
 Okay, so I think I heard you say about the 12 months for employees. So existing employees who met the requirements would be eligible for that 12-month step, whatever that was, step one or step two, depending on transportation or RTC. The 12 months really applies to new people or people who maybe are six months in with the city and still need to go through some more training and education. Okay.
 And I think we went ahead from a budget perspective and we put in all full FTE counts and realized, you know, how many months it would take for them to do it. I have a follow-up question that maybe could be repeated if you'd be right. So, afterwards, maybe I'll just try to... Yes. Not go after the rest of the board. What percentage, then, do we expect for the existing personnel or the what we're accounting for for the existing personnel and the other people that are part of it?
 So I don't have the exact tenure of each employee, but I think it would be based on the vacancy level. So if transportation had how many vacancies at this time? 16, 15, 16 vacancies. And then I think RTC is down to...
 three vacancies, but some of those people are pretty new. We've been pretty aggressively hiring. So it'll take a while for those folks to go through all of the training.
 I'm very appreciative of the type of things that we do at the school to be able to do what we're doing. It's very important to go towards our strategic priorities to make quality of life what we want to be stable. And so I am curious about if we have looked at or if we've got prejudice anywhere for additional, based on training for other places that would have opening buildings and ground
 We did not bring anything forward with this budget for any...
 Yeah, we did not bring anything forward with this budget for other departments for certificate pay or anything like that. We do have other departments that do. Sarah's going to have to use a mic. So, Sarah, you can come sit or staff can sit where Kevin's sitting and we can play musical chairs or we can keep doing. And Jonathan doesn't need his mic anymore. So...
 Let's just say staff can come sit where Jonathan was sitting when it's time to answer. Okay. Go for it, Sarah. Thank you.
 I can't see you now Missy. Thank you. I think that answered it, but just so folks who might be listening somewhere else and maybe didn't hear me, I was just asking if in our 2024 budget there were any of the other departments that had experienced longer-term openings in their department. Things like our, you know, our building folks I know are experiencing hiring. I was curious if that had been put in the 2024 budget and I think you said at this time no.
 No additional. Yeah, nothing additional. Just for those that maybe didn't hear that. Sorry. Yeah. Okay. Sarah, I would like to also...
 Also share that remember trash and recycling and trash collection, that's a separate fund pay by fees which is taken into consideration. And also that is the same with the transportation fund. That is a separate special revenue with separate fees from the state and the transportation department.
 Also, those have been, I'm sorry, but I hope to answer your full question. Those are ones that have had long-term problems. We've had long terms and we're just getting very, very few applicants online.
 The other thing about this program was to supply a little, to address compression between the length of service of those employees. That's why that was formed. What are we defining long-term openings as? Because I've tried to kind of get a better understanding
 of how long and what departments openings have stayed. As I've talked to different departments or individuals within the city, I've had shared that there's frustration over these openings that have existed, but I've struggled to get a handle on what those look like. So I'm just trying to understand too, what our definitions are between what we consider to be kind of a more long term opening versus maybe a mid or a short. I'm not quite sure what our definitions in the city and just wanna make sure I use the correct language.
 Well, I mean, we base it on vacancies and turnover, and our turnover is actually running about 17%, which is actually lower than last year. So we are seeing things trend down. As far as vacancies, it can be a little misleading as far as a job posting and what's truly open because of how our applicant tracking system works.
 So, something may be posted out there for a very long period of time. That is to get applicant flow in. It doesn't necessarily mean we have that many vacancies, if that makes sense. We do have good pipelines in place for some of the other departments that you mentioned as far as recruiting. Our supervisors, you know, and our HR department's been very active with recruiting, working with our comm department to have job opening, job fairs.
 And we're really getting our name out there. So we are seeing pretty good applicant flow. Our applicant flow is up quite a bit over last year. So those are some of the metrics that human resources would measure as far as do we have a problem that's different than anyone else in the country or not? And I think we do a pretty good job of recruiting. The two areas that we are bringing forward are areas that we have struggled with. And a lot of that has to do with that success.
 CDL driver requirement and what CDL pay is right now in some of the areas that we are competing with. And so this was a way to both train that workforce, get people in who don't have a CDL and train them to get a CDL.
 hopefully retain them through these opportunities, through education and certification, and keep them with the city, because we do have a great benefits and retirement package to offer them. So it's kind of our opportunity to get that applicant flow up for those two departments in particular.
 Thank you, and I appreciate all the efforts on that, and especially applaud, I mean, that we've made those improvements, too. I mean, that means a great deal for the citizens in regard to the services that they get, so thank you. I just have one other follow-up question, Missy, is just in regard to, I'm not sure, you don't necessarily see in the detail of our budget, you can't see the specific kind of line items that do make up some of the areas that are kind of bucketed, and so I just didn't want to make an assumption and wanted to ask,
 Do we have any paid internships as a route to employment with the city across the departments? Yes, it's based on each department and they're budgeted how they budget for it. I can give myself as an example. We do have a paid internship for human resources that we are looking to fill for next year.
 But it has to be a budgeted item and we typically run that through temporary services so that we have someone else that we can help work with, partner with, to screen the applicants, to pick up the liability of the person from a workers' comp, professional liability and those types of things. So yes, it just depends on the budget of the individual department though.
 Do we monitor our success rate of those interns turning into a full-time staff member? We do not because we do not have someone who can track that. Okay. All right. Thank you very much. Anything else? Yes.
 I WANTED TO REMOVE, THERE'S AN ITEM THAT WE TABLED AND THAT ITEM IS A FULL-TIME POSITION DEPUTY CLARK COMMUNICATIONS POSITION. I WANTED TO PULL THAT ITEM FROM THE TOP.
 from that item was tabled, so I'm wanting to know if we can revisit that item during this discussion. You can add anything you want. Okay.
 I guess my question too, just to open up, because I kind of brought this up during the workshop, and I don't want to overstep on speaking, so please come back in, though, please, and give me feedback. But I would like to be able to have a conversation about staffing issues.
 I have had lots of interactions, I know, and I know that the mayor and staff have worked really hard to really come up again with a, you know, a balanced and a very thoughtful budget. There are strategic priorities that we all held hands and had our workshop and hopefully will bring Councilmember Stafford on board for to say that quality of life and that housing was a strategic priority. And there are some areas that I think that we want to consider.
 I applaud and I appreciate that bringing forward about the city clerk because they are going to be our front door to the city. One of the things in the city of Fayetteville is that our citizenry really wants to make sure that we're incredibly responsive to them. They're very engaged, and I do think that given the level of service that happens with
 the office that happens from the city clerk, that that probably will continue, especially because there'll be easier access for things like notarizing, which for free is incredible because banks have really stopped doing that. And so it really creates them once they're there, they're probably gonna ask additional questions to the staff.
 And I look at it in this range of additional things that I just, since I've got the mic, I'll just kind of like go through is that, we talked about housing and can we, I agree with Mayor Jordan that on the conversation we had around the hotel in Fayetteville, that we have to go bold.
 It's scary right now, and there are unknowns out there. We faced a pandemic and unknowns in the past. And I think, again, we have to be measured. But I also think that we have to pull all of the available possible levers that we can. We know that the challenges that staff have shared in regard to the planning department, that they are incredibly busy. They're going to, with our current long-range planner, they are sitting on a number of committees.
 doing historic preservation and going to be part of the downtown master plan and 71 corridor. At the same time, wouldn't it be incredible to bring in a long-range planner that can focus on growth concepts? For $90,000 a year, I think about the return on investment when we think about if we're looking at building permits being said that they're going to be flat, oftentimes developers don't want to come to us for reasons. I wonder why, right? I mean, they're tedious for all of us. They're costly.
 But if we were able to be proactive, what kind of tax generation, what kind of building permit improvement does that give us in a very tight market? I'm also really hoping that we'll consider a code compliance officer. Again, going back to our quality of life, because it has a salary in a vehicle that's $143,000. That goes back to, I don't know about you, but I get a lot of off-hours calls, individuals –
 struggling with a very low level, which patrol has a lot of other urgent, life-threatening things to go to. It would be very beneficial to have co-compliance to be able to consider some of these quality of life issues that would be able to be looked at if we're able to have this additional person, in addition to the fact that we're going to be hitting our ceiling on short-term rentals and having to put in place a new one.
 mechanism for making sure that those out of compliance are regulated and having to work with that third party vendor that we know takes a staff member and would hate to take that onto someone else's plate, potentially thinking that could go there. And that brings me to a new position that wasn't a part of the conversation, but a grant
 A grant administrator would be about $80,000 a year. I brought forward a possible grant to apply for, and we had some compression with staff times, not able to respond to that. I have a laundry list, and you probably do two of things that you really, you would love for us to be able to afford, but we're not able to, but we have the availability. If we have a staff member, that some of those stretch goals, some of the things like
 Youth services that we know helps with anti-violence, it keeps youth busy. Did you know that our citations for youth are up 30% versus last year putting them into the criminal system? And unfortunately, an introduction to the criminal system as a youth, oftentimes you have a higher propensity to end up in the adult court system. Which oh by the way, we pay $100,000 a year out of our general fund to pay for jail, the jail at the Washington County Detention Center that you already pay for in your taxes.
 anti-poverty programs.
 Do you know that our community services department hasn't grown in staff since 2018 despite poverty growing in our community? Anti-violence, while we've invested in law enforcement and anti-violence activities, we have not invested in those other responses that are evidence-based and are working across the country in places like Atlanta and Kansas City and Sacramento and Chicago, to name a
 We have the ability to write grants for a UDC rewrite. Maybe some of us want that, some of us don't. Crisis response teams, we've had such success with the social work program that's happened with the police department and applaud their efforts in that, that they did that. And that was because they're lucky to have Willie Newman who does a great job too on their IT and does their grant writing.
 But what about that next step? Other places where it's successful have already taken that next step to do a crisis response team that's out in the community and also put peer recovery specialists out so that they can do that work to deescalate with those folks. And then what about transit expansion? You know, again, there's federal grants and things out there, but our staff are incredibly busy. These are tedious.
 I didn't want to overwhelm you, but I think it is the fact that there is just this plethora of opportunity and our budget is finite. But if we can be strategic, just with the things that I mentioned, those four investments, that's not even $400,000.
 I know that we've approved much more very quickly within our budget. And so while I understand we want a balanced budget, I do think that there is wriggle room out there. Even if we have a small improvement on building permits, if we're able to get those rezones done with the growth concepts, that's $120,000 more into coffers if we do a 5% increase.
 If the compensation plans have any wiggle room in them, that's $50,000 possibly. What if we don't have to spend $100,000 to the Washington County Detention Center? I'd like to stop doing that. We'd have that money back. And what if we're able to shave down having to spend $300,000 on trash because individuals are unhoused in our community and shave it down even by $50,000 to contribute to some of these things?
 I want to just put that out there as just a conversation starter about all the incredible opportunities I think are out there. And I know I can't go and ask for us to put these 20 or 30 things in the budget. I absolutely know that's not logical. But I think it is logical to think we can be bold and stretch just a smidge further because I think the return on that investment is astronomical. So thank you for considering that tonight. And I really welcome your feedback. Okay. Okay.
 Who else? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by then will speak after that. Who would like to address us on the budget in the chamber?
 you have anybody on zoom yes sir okay i'm going to bring back to y'all this is a resolution um what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take yes can i please make an amendment um to add a long-range planner to the budget okay and what would be the budgetary cost of that uh ninety thousand like eighty nine thousand
 We'll just call it 90. That's easy to round up. Okay. And you wanted a grant position. Correct. Well, I was in a motion. Oh, one at a time. Well, all right. Any comments? There needs to be a second. Oh, I'm sorry. You're right. Did you...
 Mayor Jordan, as far as the city, the deputy Clark communications director. Just a minute. Okay. We need to get a second. Second. Okay. I'm sorry about that. Sorry. Do we have a second? Second. Okay. All right. Now, what you were saying, John. Oh, that the city, the deputy city Clark position, do we need to add? Yeah.
 at uh i'm removing that item from the that was tabled do we vote on that tonight or well you can okay so i would need a second right my budget my budget's my budget so i probably won't be moving off of that but y'all can okay
 So, you want to put on the city clerk position? Yes. You want to make a motion? Yes. Well, right now there is a motion on the table. Okay. So, that should be discussed before a new motion, but then you can make your own motion to amend after that. Okay. Thank you. Can I make a comment? Yes.
 Well, sure, Paul. You can, like, comment. Well, when I total up these positions you all talked about, Sarah, they were between $450,000 and $500,000. To fund that... Go ahead. Do you disagree with that? I kind of totaled them up. I think they were between $400,000
 Okay, even if they're $400,000. I have so far had a couple of you already talk to me about the sales tax and us estimating sales tax to be 6%. And I know a couple of you were concerned. I think that is...
 reasonable to project at this point in time, but that is very high for the sales tax. If we look at that type of an amendment, our sales tax would have to hit 7% as sales tax we're paying from it. Now we do have some conservation on the other one, but what I want to caution you on is
 That is a very risky amount to add to the budget, if we're talking about $400,000 to $500,000. At this point, though, we have a motion on the table to add a single person at $90,000. Is that right? A planner? That's all we have. That's what the amendment was, but I wanted everybody to understand in total what we were talking about so we all understood that.
 Mr. Mayor, before we vote on this, I have a question about, you know, for a long-range planner, is that a reasonable amount to allow if we were to? Well, a long-range, well, long-range planner was just one of the ones that you mentioned. Yes. She did talk about the grant administrator, a long-term planner.
 DeAndre's talked about the clerk's position. We also talked about co-compliance, I believe. How many? The long-term planner would be roughly $90,000. That's what it was spec'd at. That particular amendment that has been made, that's on the floor now, would be $90,000.
 Okay, so does that include benefits? Yes. Also, I lost my page here, but also was that position requested? Was that one that was requested and we didn't quite make? That was a position that was requested that we did not feel we could fund. That's a few of the other ones. I'll get you done with that.
 that then that also includes equipment for that uh planning position so that's benefits that's full full cost all that amount is the is ninety thousand i guess um go ahead okay i guess my position in in both of these uh uh points that
 I'll reiterate, are we talking about just the long-term person? Okay. I've gotten several emails requesting this from citizens. And in talking with staff and Jonathan, you're back there, and if I say anything that's contrary to what you and I talked about, please correct me. But both this was requested.
 you had other positions requested that you understood the budgetary constraints that we had and you chose the other position over this long-term planning position. And in talking to Britton, she was okay with not adding this position at this time because she did not feel like
 They had work that they did not have a plan in place for this person to institute. She thought within six months, potentially we could have, but she didn't feel the necessity to fund it right now, knowing that we might come back to the council when we have a plan in place.
 Thank you for the opportunity to answer the question, Council Member Vernon. I think there are a couple moving pieces with this. I know a lot of members of the community had one position in mind, just a general long range planner. One of the positions that I requested in this year's budget was a communications and outreach specialist. The intent of that was to fill a need that we see being unmet with outreach efforts as we move forward in several long range planning projects.
 And we saw that manifested in some past long range projects where we paid consultants, outside consultants fees that would exceed what an in-house position would be. So that's one part I wanted to distinguish. I don't know what the members of the community anticipate or expect for this position, but it is intended to be primarily an outreach and implementation plan implementation position as I proposed it. When the second piece has for
 The selection of one position over another, five positions were requested. I think maybe what I stated was I acknowledge that there are a limited number of resources available given the anticipated budget growth in the next year. And with that in mind, I recognize that three positions were chosen, not necessarily the three best ones, the two worst ones, whatever that may be. I assert that all three were needed, but I also recognize that
 there are only a limited number of resources, whether it's for development services, the police department, fire department, utilities, transportation, or elsewhere. Does that answer your question, Council Member Burnett? Thank you. Mayor, can I ask a question? And excuse me, this is my first night here. So, Britain didn't request, who requested this long-term planning planner? I think...
 without again knowing the exact context or the the language of the conversation between council member bernard and miss bostick i think there is a dis there may be a distinction between what the community is approaching council members asking for and what i propose so i think that that may be the distinction me and miss bostick work very explicitly on the position i submitted so so this request
 for somebody in the long range planning department, didn't come from staff or? It did. Oh, it did, okay. But I also understand that there's a community interest in seeing long range staffing increase. And I cannot speak to the expectations of the community of what position they want or feel like is needed. Okay, I think I got that.
 I do know, sorry, I do know that what I have been approached about, you know, I would love to have more people in our development services because I think it's very important. But what I've been approached about is just labeled under the term blog,
 range planner and it's not as detailed as what the actual development services requested. So I don't know what the public is expecting on that. So but I do know that's what I've been asked for. And it's not that I don't think we need a long term planner at some point, but it goes back to what my theory always is. Let's get a plan in place.
 And then let's figure out what our needs are. And I think that's, and again, Britton's not here and maybe I misconstrued what she said, but I don't think I did. She did not feel like they were ready yet to move forward with the position. And she was comfortable with the direction that the mayor and staff had gone with the request. Thank you.
 Yeah. I think relying on asking staff to, you know, given that they work within the constraints that this is their job and they're not the elected leadership that the community comes
 have approved and we actually readopted in February the 2040 plan. And it does have a laundry list and oftentimes what's happened whenever community members or any of us as council have brought forward projects
 to planning, you know, there has been that feedback that, hey, we have constraints with our staffing. We can't get to that right now. It's important. And I know that we tried to systematically work through and we're going to try to identify different benchmarks within the city plan to have folks work on. But we do know whenever folks who have expertise in
 this area of planning who have served on planning commission Have recommended for us to work on some of these things listed in the city plan That the feedback from staff has been we're hitting our head on staffing And so I feel like that's where we live in that gray area as the elected official to say hey
 hey, like we can solve for this. And it goes down to really, to me, it's like it's return on investment. The fact that, you know, it could be doing more robust, communicating with the community, you know, maybe tapping into some of this pro bono expertise that lives here through the university and through some of these other folks. But I do think we already have a plan and that's why I'm trying to propose that we have a staff member in place that can help us to continue implementation of the city plan.
 Mr. Mayor, I have a question about the three positions we are currently allowing. And I can't find that now. But those are all in code compliance, is that right?
 The three proposed positions are in the mayor's proposed budget are in building safety as a plans examiner, a permit coordinator, and a building inspector. Okay. And would those people... Okay, so a plans inspector... A plans examiner, a permit coordinator, and a building inspector, yes. Okay. Would those... Do you anticipate those positions to have any other...
 Is it just going to be this one thing that they do or will they be doing additional services in the development services department?
 Two of the three are very mission specific. The plans examiner, very explicitly, their job is to review building permits for the most part, whether it's commercial or residential building permits. The permit coordinator has a little bit more of a wider purview, but ultimately their job is as a gatekeeper to accept applications, process them, work with contractors, work with residents to make sure the necessary documents are received so that the plans examiner can review them as quickly as possible.
 The one with the most potential for cross training or latitude or other services is our building inspector. Currently, too, our building inspectors don't just review for building permit requirements. They also respond to resident complaints about a number of issues.
 our building inspectors and our public works inspectors often cover each other. They review things like erosion controls on construction sites that are not accurate or inspect for them. So generally they are mission specific, but the building inspector does have a little bit more wider latitude. Okay, thank you. I think there's a question for Paul. Paul, you mentioned that the
 You tried to balance the budget and play it pretty tight. And these positions were requested, but you didn't feel, or whatever the process was, wasn't felt they could fit into this budget.
 In the coming months during the year, you know, say we pass the budget as is, can we add positions? Again, newbie here, can we have positions during the year if we find we have the funds, if we have the resources that we could, we don't have to wait until next year's budget? A council member can bring forward an amendment to the budget during the year, yes. That could be added.
 Mayor, may I add to that briefly? Because I know Councilmember Stafford was not on the council when it was approved, but there is currently a cost allocation study and user fee study that are being reviewed right now. It has been about 20 years since we've reviewed our application fees in a lot of categories. And so what we're evaluating now is what it actually costs staff to review a building permit, what it costs them to review a conditional use permit. Yeah.
 we look forward to bringing forward something that may more accurately represent the cost that we represent to the city and compensating or capturing some of that as an opportunity to possibly bring back a mid-year position proposal gotcha and um i mean it sounds like there might be another proposal for another position too with either city clerk and was there a couple more um
 IT WAS HARD TO KEEP TRACK THERE. NEW SPEAKER I JUST WANT TO KNOW HOW MANY TOTAL THAT ARE BEING REQUESTED TO BEING ADDED. IS THAT AN OKAY QUESTION? NEW SPEAKER AT LEAST TWO, MAYBE THREE, FOUR. NEW SPEAKER SO CITY CLERK POSITION, LONG RANGE PLANNING AND WHAT WERE THE OTHER TWO?
 Also requested was a code compliance officer in the planning department and a grant administrator. Washington County has this, Bentonville has this, other cities across the state has this, and based on the administrative cost you can get off of a couple of grants they can pay for themselves. It's a code compliance officer and it was listed in the budget with a truck for $143,000.
 Okay, I just want to wrap my head around what all the plans discussed. Three of them were proposed in the budget planning process, and the only one that would be new would be the grand administrator. So Mr. Mayor, did we ever have a motion and a second on this? Yes, we got a motion and a second put on the long range plan.
 and we've been thrashing along on this since then. So I have all evening. Do you have something else there? Okay, we have a motion and a second to put on a long-range plan. All right. Caravans, please call the roll. Stafford. Abstain. Jones. Yes. Moore. Did we need to get public comment? No.
 No? Okay. Just check. I just wanted to check. Sorry. Before we... I did take public comment on that. It's an amendment to your budget, Mayor. It's an amendment. Oh, it's an amendment. Okay. Just wanted to make sure. Thank you. Yes. Weedeker? Oh, yes. Berna? No. Butch? No. Kirk? No. Ertzberg? No. No.
 So that amendment failed, and I think probably, DeAndre, you had the next one. You got the next one, DeAndre. Oh. City clerk. Yes, I would like to make an amendment to the budget to add the
 City clerk communications director position. Okay. I hope I said it right, Kara. Okay. It's a deputy clerk of communications. Deputy clerk of communications. Thank you. Second. Okay. What discussion do we have on that? Okay.
 So this position is a little bit different than a regular staff position, right? Because both like Kitt's office and CARA, they're elected officials. They're not...
 like they have their own staff it's not part of your staff is that correct mr mayor they uh they work for us we have higher and fire abilities but still the city council is the one that does the budget that authorizes how many staff that we can have and and what is the budget for that so so for a position in your office you would be the one to request that
 And for Kara's office, she would be the one to request that. I think that's correct. And then it comes to us as the city council, not separate from like the requests you would have, the mayor would have. Okay. And when was the last time you've had new hires? This is...
 So, Councilmember Stafford, thank you for that question. Actually, you know, I've been in this position four years, going on five now. And I actually reached out to the Human Resources Department to, you know, track down those details after the last meeting. I sent a request to two different members.
 However, I never received a response back. I received a call from the director, Missy Cole, and received the information that the
 I'm not able, I'm no longer able to ask questions of the HR staff. I'm supposed to ask those questions directly of the human resources director. And I was told that at this time, there wasn't enough time to look into getting that information together to be able to tell me the history of that for the same time period as the city attorney mentioned. So at that point, I reached out to our...
 previous records manager who was with the city almost four years and this is what she explained to me is we've not had positions added we had a position
 Change to a full-time that was a part-time since I've been in this position However, going back and looking at 20 years ago 22 years ago when the city attorney came on here at the city
 He wanted to bring his own staff member to the city. So what they did is they took that administrative assistant or admin assistant in that position that was in the city attorney's office at the time, and they moved it into the city clerk office. So then that way, you know, that position could be filled with the individual that he wanted to bring in as an elected official.
 So other than that, those are the only two times that I can think over the last 20 years. And again, I don't have access to that information. No, that's fine. So is this a new position? Or is this a support position for an existing position to add extra staff? So this is a new position. And it's a full-time position.
 And, you know, there's been lots of questions, and I've been actually, I've been reached out to by many of the different committees. And with appreciation that I brought that forward as a primary contact in our office for that, I've been made aware that a lot of the committees, boards, and commissions don't feel comfortable making minutes for their own committees due to a –
 LACK OF KNOWLEDGE OR EXPERIENCE, OUR OFFICE IS VERY EXPERIENCED IN THAT, AS WELL AS CREATING AGENDAS. NEW SPEAKER So would this help with that? Because my first two years on the arts council when I was chair, we have a scattering of minutes. We had no one to take minutes. And we made a lot of decision and actionable items, and right now they're lost to the
 I don't know if there's a question who this is a question for maybe you Paul is how much would this Position cost was estimated to be eighty five thousand eighty five thousand. That's all in benefits Everything. Yes. Okay. Okay. Thank you actually eighty five thousand Rounded to eighty five thousand six hundred dollars was the asset. Okay. Thank you
 Anybody else? Okay. I just will go. Karen, call, just call her out. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? No. Berna? No. Bunch? No. Kurt? No. Hertzberg? No.
 That amendment failed. Okay. What else do we have? Grants? First, I'd like to make an amendment to the budget to add a code compliance officer, and that amount with the truck and all of the benefits listed were $143,000. Okay. So is there any more amendments? No? So...
 resolution we're either going to table it or vote on it tonight. I'm sorry I was making a motion I don't know if anybody was gonna second it though but I was making a motion I apologize I wasn't clear. Thank you. What was your motion? I apologize a motion to add to the budget a code compliance officer at 143,000. Okay I got that.
 Alright, what discussion do we want to have on that? Anything? Just an idea again of cost for the position and I guess I need a definition of exactly what this position is and where they fit. I don't think it would give you that. The cost was $143,000 because they need a vehicle. $123,000? $43,000.
 143 because it has a vehicle associated with it. As for the position, background and description on it, about two years ago, Code Compliance was moved from Community Resources into Development Services, more specifically into the Building Safety Division. As a part of that, the intent was to
 allow code enforcement to enforce a wider breadth of codes to run support for more divisions and departments that may not have enforcement capabilities themselves. At the time, they were already doing this for several groups, but they've also expanded that now that they do enforcement for planning, they do investigations for engineering, they do them for building safety.
 The number of code complaints we've gotten has, or concerns has risen over several years. There's a number of reasons for that. We saw a spike during COVID. I think a lot of people were home. However, that didn't carry through as diminishing when COVID ended. And I think that may be because we successfully implemented a tool called C-Click Fix that the city uses to allow residents to more readily file concerns.
 A consequence of that was that we've seen a larger number of concerns expressed and we've acknowledged that we are not as responsive as a lot of our residents would expect us to be. And so we are proposing a new position or a new co-compliance officer position to that effect. One of the long-term aspirations for the goal is to increase the number of hours of oversight we offer to the city. Currently, we follow generally the business hours of the city itself.
 Okay, and just to follow up, so this request did come from you or from your department? It did. And then, again, is this a new position or just additional staff to an existing? Like we already have code compliance officers, correct? We do. We have one senior code compliance officer and three standard code compliance officers. Okay, and so you're looking at adding a fifth position or another position?
 would it be fifth or fourth position it would be a fourth of the same position but there are five people that currently gotcha gotcha um do you feel you know you'd ask for a certain amount of positions to be filled do you feel you got the best picks you know that you desired in the budget to get filled
 Like, you know, out of all your requests, do you feel you got the ones you needed the most or you need them all equally? There are different needs. I don't think I can compare them equally at all. Certainly the building safety positions address a very immediate need, particularly to what you all hear about housing. One of the biggest bottlenecks we run into is in our permitting department. We're at this inflection point where.
 We have a staff that has fostered a culture of quality reviews. So they're spending the time needed to make sure permits and plans are being reviewed to the extent they're expected. But if they were to increase the volume that they're producing, quality would decline. In that regard, I think that is perhaps a piece of why the mayor recommended those three positions with his budget. Okay, and it was requested through...
 You requested this as well, Lionel? It was proposed. What you're getting is what I've purchased. Okay. And would getting this position filled help streamline or speed up the building of housing? Generally, no. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, I have a question for Jonathan then. One of the things that you had mentioned is the possibility of having a code compliance officer that kind of overlapped with some other services, but also maybe an additional code compliance officer would allow –
 I thought I heard you talking about after hours or generally do business hours. And we do get a lot of, if you look at C-Click Fix, you see a lot of things that would show up kind of after hours. Do you anticipate if you had this position that you would move people's schedules around a little bit to allow for some after hours or not?
 That is a goal of it. The code compliance officer position, as you can imagine, is one similar, well, to perhaps to a lesser extent, our police department. They are in a lot of contentious situations. And so we I have been reluctant to ask them to begin working odd hours, evening hours, things that would perhaps compromise our ability to keep these existing staff invested in their positions.
 So it's a long-winded way of saying yes, it is a goal that with this position we'd be able to provide additional coverage beyond our typical roughly 8 to 5 o'clock. Okay, thank you. Anything else on that? Let's wait for Bob to get back. I do have another quick question for Jonathan. This could also be a midterm position added.
 as well? Yes, I believe so. Okay. Yes. Thank you. Excuse me, Mayor. Mr. Whitaker had his hand up. Mayor? What? Mike had his hand up. Okay. Go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. If I could ask, what's the timing of our fee study? When do we anticipate having the results of that?
 I usually find out about January. Oh, what time is it? No, it's not the plan. Oh, the fee study. The fee study. I'm sorry. You're right. We are currently in the final stages of that project. To put it in, I think, the consultant's term, we have created final drafts of what fees would be, and we're going through an evaluation of what we want to propose to council. Just to give you a preview of what that may look like, it's,
 what we're charging today and what kind of comp or what kind of recuperation of staff time that represents what full recuperation looks like and if there's an opportunity or option somewhere in between i think you've probably heard mr williams speak at at length before about his concerns with what full recuperation of that would look like but we plan on bringing that forward sorry i was
 Not answering Councilmember Whedeker's question. We're looking to hopefully bring that in in January, February of next year. Yeah, that's right. That's right. Okay. Thank you. I thought it was January. Yeah. You know, I have great respect for the city attorney. He keeps me out of jail. But I am a proponent for cost recovery, the person or entity receiving the service that
 especially when they're 1% of the population of Fayetteville, should be covering the cost of the services they receive and not the 99%. I realize many things government does benefit all of us, but some things are particular to the applicant. And so, I'm very much in favor of us adopting a budget
 I was an early proponent for that fee study to be done. And then once we have those results and we know what we're adopting fee-wise, I would feel more comfortable knowing what we can fund as far as additional positions in the budget. And I just wanted to offer that opinion very quickly. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You're welcome. That's a good point, Smut. Thank you.
 Yes. And I appreciate that, Council Member Whitaker. And correct me if I'm wrong, but I do believe that the fees that do come in from the planning department today, they dump about a million dollars into the general fund outside of the staffing cost or is it somewhere around that neighborhood? Is that incorrect?
 That's not outside. It's at the neighborhood of a million dollars we'll get this year. That is not above and beyond cost though. That's the total it brings in. Okay. A million dollars. Does that answer your question?
 Kind of. I'll remove the question. No, if I understood, you said in addition or over and above their cost. Also, the building permits, looking at building permits there. Building permits period is going to come in about a million, million one this year. Yeah.
 2.4 isn't it? I'm sorry. It's approaching $2 million. Yeah, it's about $2 million. I'm sorry. It's about $2 million. So is there a little headroom in what we're bringing in today versus what we staff? I guess is what I'm asking today. In order for something to be a fee and not a tax, it has to not exceed our costs. If we are netting money or if we're profiting from our fees...
 then they're no longer a fee, they're a tax. So the city's been very careful not to charge more than what our costs are when it comes to analyzing the development proposals that come forward, building permits and everything else like that. So we are not collecting the full amount that it costs us to do it. That's why they're doing this study. That's right. That is facts. What else?
 okay anything else on this this is the code compliance person right at a hundred and forty three thousand thank you thank you I want to make sure and add that budget yes yes I was looking for that number myself so care which please call Stafford Jones no
 more yes we'd occur no Berna no bunch no hurt no hurts burn no okay what's next I'd like to make a motion to amend the budget for a grant administrator and the amount of $80,000 did you say that amount again Sarah sorry 80,000
 Okay. What discussion would you like to have on that? Oh, yes, we got it. So what discussion would you like to have on grants? I'd like to know currently what's our process or who's in charge of grant writing and grant finding and writing and procuring. Well, currently the department involved looks at grants that are available
 For example, the police would look at the plan and evaluate that. And then based on if they felt that they that that grant would be beneficial to the city and they could comply with that, they will bring it forward. So it's the actual department that would be administrating that grant.
 I think that's very important because some of the grants out there, your administrative costs would be more than their value to the city, or they would receive less than the cost of administering that grant. So right now, those grants are with the departments. For example, it would be the police has some, the fire gets grants when they're available.
 And the community development looks at grants. Considerable grants are in transportation and mobility as well. OK, so the department involved looks for the grant, finds the grants, applies for the grants, and administers the grant. That's correct. Was this position requested by staff or? No. Is this your request?
 Yeah, okay. And 80,000 all in? Well, we haven't specced it, but I would say that's probably the range. That's probably a reasonable range. Do you have an opinion on that, Missy? I would think that it would be in the general range, 80, 85, somewhere in there. Yeah, we have a grants administrator position. It's a grade J420.
 So market value of that is around 60, and then you add 35% for benefits. Okay. Okay, thank you. Okay, thank you. Council Member Whittaker has his hand raised. Okay, go ahead, Mike.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. During the ARPA process, I believe I'm remembering that we did create and add some form of a grant position. Could someone refresh my memory and describe what grant role that individual is fulfilling for us? Thank you. I forgot about that. Paul, the question has to do with how we're handling the current ARPA grant administrator.
 his memory refreshed about that position that is... The particular position at this point in time is working on the ARPA grants specifically. Actually has their hands full with the administration of those grants. It's supervised right now by my assistant who's also spending time working on those grants and compliance with those.
 It's very time consuming because we also audit the performance of those grants. So it's specifically with ARPA at this point in time. We'll continue to be with ARPA probably until the ARPA funds are in fact expended. Does that answer your question? Yes, sir. Thank you. I have a question. Sarah, typically with grant writing positions,
 the grant writer that salary can sometimes pay for itself based on the size of the grant, correct? So if let's say, how will that work if in this case, will we still pay their salary and they will receive support from the grant as well?
 I mean, I think I can't talk like broad brushstroke of every single grant, but I know there are grants that are available that potentially could be applied for that allow for administrative costs sometimes as high as 10 percent. And so, yes, just to kind of give an example, you know, I wouldn't necessarily say that I always want to emulate what's happening within Washington County, say, but they have a grant administrator who they've been able to show.
 show year over year growth in the grants that they brought into the county with them in place. And so just being able to go to each of the departments asking for those particular areas that they have focus on and so that they've got available bandwidth and time on their desk to do some of that digging that sometimes can lead to nothing, but then sometimes can lead to something. And so, especially in the areas
 that we don't have defined apartments or as much expertise as we kind of look into some of the potential, you know, healthcare or, you know, looking at, you know, public health emergency type areas when you think about racism being a health crisis and solving for that or other strategic priorities. A grants administrator has the ability to look into those areas.
 So this is coming from, so do you see this position right now, I think the interdepartmental working on the grants, do you see this position would take over the administration of those existing grants and also do the grant seeking and writing for all the different departments so that you're freeing up workload from the other departments or would this kind of be
 position working on their own like who would they be what departments would they be seeking grants for would they be stepping on the toes of the other departments uh or or would they be taking over all the grant writing for the city of Fayetteville or like i see you know how you see this position uh working and what what is what is failing is it supportive or is it just like this is the person now for the whole city
 That's a very valid question. I think it would be probably asking the administration to define how they would want that role in between the departments. I'm sure there are certain grants that some folks might say, get this off my desk, it's a headache and it takes a lot of bandwidth for my staff who then can't do this.
 in their department, but the idea would be that incrementality of maybe there have been certain grants and that departments might have wanted to look at but maybe just didn't have the available time that they would potentially be able to ask. So it would be maybe either or both, you know, it's based on the departments and the administration defining what the workload would be for that individual with us making that person available as a tool for
 the strategies, the strategic goals that we set to be able to accomplish those. Because our tax base is not saying, please tax us more. They're saying, get more creative with the money we're providing to you. And this is just one more way that we can get more creative by having someone that's seeking some of those other monies that are out there.
 I just want to make a comment. I mean, I see the value in having a grants administrator for sure, but I think almost this position is something that should be coming in conjunction maybe not from staff, but in conjunction with them talking to the other departments, seeing how it's going to work for them, seeing if it's a need they need filled. I mean, for
 jumping in here, this is a little bit of a difficult one to say. Sure, especially when the other departments haven't had, like I'd like to see you bring this with staff or work with staff to have a really defined role for this person and that we know exactly what they're going to be doing and what their role is and everything. Personally, so this is kind of a
 A little bit of a, like I think having more grants administrators is great, but I want to make sure that we do it in the right way. Thank you. Okay. Sarah, you had your mic on for a while. Yeah. You know, one of the things...
 In theory, I think a grants administrator would be a beneficial position, but there are, without really knowing what, like if it's going to be taking over all the grant capacity or taking, overseeing grants. There's a level of complexity that go into like transportation grants that is just, I
 that really needs to say like in that department or engineering or something like that so i don't know quite if i could be on board with with this if i don't know what it's going to be covering i know there are some positions that you know some grants that we might be applying for but but i that might work with this but i don't just using transportation and engineering as one example i
 i don't quite see one person overseeing those grants and community development grants and everything like that for 80 000 i don't see that working anything else on the grants right okay care which please call the roll stafford no no jones no more wedeker no
 Burner no bench no Turk no Hertzberg no Okay Mayor I move we approve the resolution do what I move we approve the resolution Second we have a motion in second to pass the resolution any Any comments
 I would just like to open up to the floor to consider, because it is Councilmember Stafford's first time with the budget here, potentially leaving this and tabling it until the next City Council meeting. I just want to make sure with our City Attorney that that wouldn't cause any issues with the budget. Oh, yes. This is a motion to pass a resolution, not an amendment, and therefore there will be public comment. Do what?
 I say this is not an amendment. This is to pass the actual resolution, so we always will have public comment with that. Yes. I thought we already had public comment. We didn't have public comment on the budget? Okay, cool. No.
 I was just stating that Councilmember Stafford, this is his first meeting where he's just seeing the budget. So I just was putting out for consideration that we might, I know it was a motion to move forward with the budget, but potentially between the public, just seeing it publicly at the beginning of November, as well as Councilmember Stafford.
 just joining us for this first meeting, potentially tabling to the next meeting, and asked our city attorney if that would cause any concerns if we waited two weeks. Certainly you can move to table the budget if you want to do that. In the past, it has been tabled sometimes, and sometimes it's not tabled. It just depends on what the city council wants to do.
 Okay. I'd just like to speak on my own behalf because I appreciate the notion, but I knew that I would have to hit the ground running. And I went to the budget workshop and I've spent the last week going through the budget. And I know I had a meeting with Paul, had a meeting with the fire department, with chief Reynolds and the police department. I feel like
 like I did my homework and I feel like I hit the ground running. So I don't want this to be done on my behalf. And I'm kind of not one that likes to table things. And that's why I worked hard and haven't slept much since the election or in the last three and a half months. So I'm personally I'm ready to vote on this and I feel confident that I've done my homework and came prepared. I do appreciate the notion, but I for one, I'm ready to vote.
 my motion stands what'd you say i didn't my motion stands okay we have a motion to second to pass the resolution i will i'm just making sure i'm following all there was tablings and all kinds of things going on okay
 We'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak after you've rested a while, it looks like. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on the budget? In the room.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. So I've talked back and forth and thought a lot about different things that happen regarding our budget each and every year over the last four years.
 It's so important to identify staff needs, and I appreciate all the talk that you've brought forward tonight and discussed that and talked about budget adjustments and what we need to do. A topic came up that is something that I find very interesting, and it's fees. What revenue is the city bringing in, and who gets to take advantage of those fees? Well, I will let you know that.
 There's a lot of different things that go through different departments that that money never comes back to. So I think that's important to realize. We talked a little bit about the fact that there were more than just two or three or four or five positions that came from one department. I can't remember what the number was, but I think it was, what, over 20 that the positions were from.
 requested. I mean, if you're talking about five alone coming from one department, I can't even imagine getting five positions approved. One thing that when I first started here at the city and I was trying to get a position taken care of so someone could go part-time in order for them to retire at the end of the year. The amount of paperwork that you have to find out who you need to get that from is
 You're told, well, you can't get that paperwork until you talk to Paul. Well, you talk to Paul and you don't know what questions that he's going to ask. You're prepared. You go back to that person and say, hey, Paul.
 I'm at this point now. What else do you need from me? And it's a vicious back and forth. And that's not just something that I've experienced. There's other staff members. And I'm not saying that anyone has done that maliciously. I'm not saying that at all. I'm just saying there has to be a better way to communicate and get this information forward.
 I thought my chair was going to come out from underneath me a moment ago when Mr. Kurth, you know, explained that, yes, he did request a communication specialist. But yet no questions were asked of him like were asked of me when we handled the public calendar.
 You know, I think it needs to be, and I'm not, Mr. Kurth is wonderful. I'm going to tell you he's the best department head here at the city. Best one, hands down. However, if you're looking at all those positions and you're saying some departments need this and some departments need that, but yet they're coming forward to you and asking for those positions, who are, how do you...
 come back and say that they're not, they shouldn't be asking for a position like that. They are the department head. They're the one who is doing the work each and every day.
 Jackson and I sat down and we went through a lot of information and another topic that was said, and I know I don't have a lot of time, but I really feel passionately that there has to be a better process to do this. Missy Cole regarded her temporary position as internships. I'm sorry, Missy. I can't wrap my head around it.
 an internship being someone that's coming from a temp service. You know, an internship to me is something that you're trying to gain job skills while you're still in maybe a vocational educational situation. Maybe you're still in high school, maybe you're in college, maybe you're in graduate school. To me, and I don't work in H.R., but to me, as someone who has gone through internships, paid and unpaid,
 That's not the same thing. I would just love for the city to really push engaging our youth and engaging the individuals that we have that are going towards educational paths, whether that be in college or not, to get them that real world experience that they need.
 There are so many times that you graduate from whatever program that you're in, and there's no jobs out there, and you have to find your way. Well, here, why don't we at the city support those individuals and get them where they need to be because we are here for the citizens. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. Good evening.
 I'm going to ask you to table it, not because I don't think anybody's ready, but because there's at least one, seems like unanswered question that I heard about it around, in particular in regard to the long-range planner amendment motion that was made. And...
 I think, I know a lot of you have gotten emails about that, and I heard expressed tonight that on a couple of them that there was no plan for a position, and so you didn't feel comfortable putting money in the budget for a position that didn't have a plan. Well, this is one that's coming as a request from a number of community members because they see a need.
 they don't have the expertise to present you a full plan. And it sounds like maybe there's some confusion over what they mean by long range planner, what the staff means by long range planner. And I would suggest that instead of just going, well, they asked for the wrong thing or they weren't clear, but we recognize that the folks in the community may not know the magic spell to cast to speak staff language at budget time.
 But they have a need that's a real one that needs to be addressed. And as their elected officials who sit up here with a little more expertise and a whole lot more access, I'd suggest that it's your job to maybe ask them the follow-up question, to dig in, find out what that need is, and then develop the plan for how you can fix it. And I think the long-range plan or request is probably a community shorthand for help us with the development we're getting. It's not what we want.
 If you've been to some of you have been to Fayetteville strong meetings where there have been 20-30 people sitting around talking about this issue or if you've been on social media you've seen Fayetteville flyer threads 300 comments long talking about this issue that we are getting drive-through coffee shops drive-through car washes gas stations and and
 other things over and over and over in places where we have said we want something better. And our development just isn't matching the aspirational goals that we've set. It's about to be 2024. We have a plan that was adopted in 2020 and we're still getting development like it's 1994. And I think when people are asking for a long-range planner, that's what they want you to fix. And
 $90,000 seems like a pretty good way to increase the capacity of the department so that they can start to be more proactive looking at zoning. If you need a plan that's what I would suggest you look at and you're not going to do that tonight. I hope that you'll hold this long enough to put that plan together and figure out how you can invest $90,000 in making large swaths of our city more financially and socially productive. Thank you. Who else?
 Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Mayor, I just wanted to voice my support for the motion. Considering this was something that you put together with your staff and considering that it's just a roadmap to the direction that we're going to go and it's a fluid roadmap that we can make adjustments as needed, I will gladly support the motion on the table. Thank you.
 I appreciate it, I appreciate Tom Smith, I appreciate Tom for bringing forward the needs
 we definitely need more long-range planning i think and and i think the position here at askworth's legitimate i think uh one of those positions uh another position i i think it's something i would support but i do uh like having scott just mentioned we can adjust this budget
 NEW SPEAKERS. NEW SPEAKERS. WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO AS THE YEAR MOVES ALONG TO ADD THESE POSITIONS AS MY UNDERSTANDING AS WE FIGURE OUT NUMBER ONE PRIORITIZING THEM. BECAUSE I THINK HAVING JUST SAYING YEAH, WE'RE GOING TO DO HALF A MILLION DOLLARS IN
 HIRES, THAT'S A BIG ASK WHEN THE BUDGET HAS BEEN MADE. PRIORITIZE THEM, FIND THE MONEY, MAKE THE HIRE. I THINK THEY'RE ALL WORTHY CAUSES, ALL WORTHY POSITIONS. BUT LET'S, I THINK, YOU KNOW, LET'S PASS THE BUDGET AND THEN STILL KEEP THOSE ON THE BURNER AND MAKE SURE WE CIRCLE AROUND WITH THOSE.
 First, I want to thank Paul Becker for doing such a good job as finance director of this city. I want to say that tonight. Missy, I want to thank you for the work that you do down in human resources. I think you all are excellent staffers. I appreciate both of you. Now, I will tell you this, and there was a council member when I first got on the city council that told me the most important thing that you do in the city is properly manage the taxpayers' money.
 I never forgot that. But we have a city that provides a lot of services. Our service level is way high and the people actually want more and better services. And we tried to provide that. I think last year we put on 41 staffers, if I remember correctly. And this year there was, is that right, Paul?
 And then the ask this year was for another 33. Well, I look at our sales taxes coming in the last two reports, and it was 2.5 down last report. This one came in at 1.85, I believe, positive. But that's not 6%.
 it's not nine percent like it was doing so i have this and then we've got a pay plan study going on right now that i won't know how that comes out until february or so thereabouts but my job is to make sure that we keep the service level where it it not just where it is but better than i strive for that and that means
 That means that we've got to keep the existing staff working and doing the work and keeping those services going. And we've got to make sure that our staff is paid market rate. That's why we lose people. We've got to pay market rate for those staffers. So I made the decision. I made the decision. At the end of the day,
 I listen to Paul, and then I make a call. Right now, I can see us doing 10 essential services. Yes, we need a long-range plan. I agree with that. I really do. I know we need more code people. I understand that.
 The fire department also needs more help. The police department needs more help. Water and sewer needs more people. Transportation needs more people. City court gave a valid argument, but I couldn't fund them all because I don't know what the future holds right now. So what I'm saying is,
 I want you all to pass this budget, and then we'll look at it again when the pay plan comes in, because you want to be able to keep the people you've got and pay them a decent living wage. So I hope you'll pass this budget. So that's my final comments. With that, Chair, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whedeker? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you. I promise you will look at some of this other stuff later on. I see what sales tax. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK.
 Thank you all. Everybody. Just give me a moment here. Everybody have a happy Thanksgiving to you and all your family. Before we leave, when is ordinance review again? When is ordinance review? Next Wednesday at 530. November 29th, Wednesday 530. You can attend in person. You can attend in person or via Zoom. It's a hybrid meeting. And any council members and any public. Okay. Thank you.