I would like to call the City Council meeting of December the 5th, 2017 to order.
 Here, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 All right, good evening, everyone. I would, under the mayor's announcements, proclamation of recognitions, the first order of business we have tonight, I would like to recognize Boy Scout Troop 854, if they'd stand to be recognized tonight. Thank you all. I'm sure we will keep you entertained this evening. The next order of business we have tonight is...
 The monthly financial report from Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'll remind you that the statute's changed, and monthly I need to give you a financial update. We've talked a lot about finances lately, and nothing's really changed from what we have been discussing. General fund is up on a revenue basis about 4%. Sales tax itself is up 4.6%. It should finish the year at...
 at roughly between $1.2 and $1.5 million for the year. It's very important because remember, we predicated salary increases and said at that point in time, when you approve them, if we generate about $1.5 million, we wouldn't have to go into reserves to cover them. So that's very good going forward.
 expenses are roughly in line where I would expect them to be at this time of the year. This report is on October, by the way, so it's month 10 I'm talking about at this point
 If we look at the street fund, the street fund revenue is up a bit. That's based on the gallon-inch tax that comes in from the state to help with the road system. So that's up then. I look for revenue to be up about $300,000 this year for the street fund.
 Parking fund. Parking fund is up. Actually, the use of the parking facility is up about 9%. We should generate about $175,000 to $200,000 additional dollars this year for the parking fund, so that's also doing very well.
 Parks development fee, again, that's HMR taxes. That helps run the parks and maintain the parks. That's up 3.5% this year so far, and we should finish very well there. That helps us because that's where we use money for future expansion and capital expenditures in the park system.
 Water and sewer fund, the water and sewer fund's revenue is up roughly 6% compared to last year. 3% of that is due to an increase that we have each year of 3% cost increases.
 to cover increased expenditures, and the usage has increased by 3%. So revenue there is up about 6%. Remember, we have a lot of capital outstanding. We still have roughly $20 million worth of capital expenditures out there that are moving forward. However, the water and sewer fund is in good shape at this point in time.
 Recycling. Recycling, we're up about 7% compared to last year. A lot of construction going on, a lot of commercial development for pickup there, so that's increasing as we look at it. The airport itself, as we're looking at their sales of fuel, are up about 9%. Airport's holding its own. We should finish up.
 We should break even, I think, for the airport, which is good. Again, the capital expenditures are at the airport. We look at federal grants to fund those. They've been very, very successful. So we look in pretty good shape there. So all in all, I'm very happy with how we're doing at this point in time. Most of the major operating funds revenues are up this year compared to last year in a range of 3.5% to 4% in most cases.
 So, that would be my report at this point in time. Again, this is for October, month 10, two months more to finish out. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the financial report, monthly financial report? Okay. Thank you, Paul. The next order of business we have tonight is the election of the Vice Mayor.
 This is a highly stressful position and I'm gone all the time. But anyway, it's a very valuable position. I mean, there's a lot of times that...
 I'm not here for agenda sessions and possibly other meetings, and the vice mayor fills in, and it's always been a help. I know that there's been some of you all that have done that job, so, you know, the responsibility is there. But I was vice mayor of this council myself, and it was an honor to be here.
 chosen by my peers. So I will open the floor for nominations. Sarah? I would like to nominate Council Member Mark Kenyon due to his excellent attendance, his incredible attention to detail, and just overall good service on the council. Okay. John? I'd like to nominate Council Member Matthew Petty.
 For much the same reasons. I find his logic and reasoning sound, I find his leadership skills good, and I appreciate him being on the council. Okay. Is there any other nominations?
 Okay, I will close the nominations and we will the council will either vote for Kenyon or Petty actually our rules procedure says you just vote for the name and you can vote for yourself if you want to So there's no real motions. Just they call the roll and vote the name. Okay, good enough All right, Sandra, would you look up? Sorry? Sure
 I appreciate the nomination. I won't turn it down, but it's never a position I've ever lobbied before this year included. I don't really have, for the rest of my council members, I don't really have any ego about being selected or about Mark taking the position. I guess I'd vote for myself because it seems silly otherwise, but I thank you for the nomination. Okay. Any other discussion? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddie. Myself. Annette.
 I vote for myself. Mark has been elected. Of course, this is a fairly short term. It's only this month. Well, you get this meeting and another one. You get two meetings. I do appreciate that. Yeah. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Well, we have a tie vote. No, it was five to three, I think. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. So Mark Kenyon has been elected as vice mayor for the remainder of this year. All right. Congratulations, Mark. Thank you. Would you like to say anything? Some sort of acceptance speech? Thank you. That's plenty. All right. Well, congratulations. All right. The next order of business is the consent agenda.
 Number one, approval of the November 21st, 2017, since City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution authorizing acceptance of the Arkansas FireWise grant from the Arkansas Forestry Commission in the amount of $500 for use by the fire department and to approve budget adjustment. Number three.
 A resolution to award RFP 17-13 and to authorize a one-year contract with Gallagher Benefits Services in the amount of $8,000 with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms for the provision of the City Employee Benefits Broker Services. Number four.
 A resolution to award bid number 17-57, it authorized the purchase of a Freightliner M2112 roll-off truck from Truck Centers of Springdale, Arkansas, in the amount of $148,663 for use by the Recycling Trash Collection Division. Number five, a resolution to award bid number 17-58, it authorized the purchase of a...
 Unicarrier's PF50LP forklift from Lift Truck Service Center, Incorporated of Springdale, Arkansas, on the amount of $23,911.95 for use by the Wastewater Treatment Division. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 17-62 and to authorize the purchase of two Bobcat E45T4 compact vehicles
 track excavators from Williams Tractor of Federal Arkansas, and a total amount of $83,988 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division. Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 17-63 to authorize the purchase of a Seca sewer jetter truck from Hennard Utility Incorporated of Searcy, Arkansas, in the amount of $217,575 for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division.
 Number eight, a resolution to close the Spring Street parking deck fund transfer about $243,431 remaining in the fund to the parking fund and to approve the attached budget adjustment. Number nine, a resolution to approve a one-year contract with BKD LLP for auditing services for the 2017 audit with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms. Number 10.
 A resolution to award bid number 17-56, an authorized contract with 81 Construction Group, Inc., in the amount of $435,650 for the construction of the Lake Sequoia Basin 3 access road and to approve the project in the amount of $43,565. Number 11, a resolution to award a contract with McClellan,
 Consulting Engineers Incorporated any amount of $15,200 for testing and surveying services associated with the construction of the Lake Sequoia Basin 3 Access Road project and approve a budget adjustment. And number 12, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 1 to the contract with Goodwin, Williams, and Yates Incorporated. An amount not to exceed $74,016 for changes to the Densmore Trail Water Main Plans Construction Observation and Management Services and Assistance Projects.
 with pressure sustaining valves on the water mains. I will entertain a motion to accept consent. Agenda is read. Sarah. So moved. Adele. Second that. We have a motion and a second to accept consent. Agenda is read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddie. Yes. Janet. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much.
 Under unfinished business number one, an ordinance to rezone all parcels within or near College Avenue as shown on Exhibit C of the Planning Department's agenda memo comprising about 24.62 acres. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Adela? So moved. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to rezone all parcels within or near College Avenue, as shown on Exhibit C of the Planning Department's agenda memo, comprising about 24.62 acres. Okay. Staff, have anything new? Good evening, Mayor and members of council. I have a short addendum to our staff report from two weeks ago.
 First, I might just recap what the proposal is and then suggest some possible modifications. The goal here is quite simply to take the highway and put the regulatory framework in place to make it more walkable and turn it into a main street.
 IT'S UNDERGOING EXTENSIVE REVIEW. SOME FEEDBACK WE GOT EARLIER FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND OTHERS IS LET'S NOT DESIGN UNNECESSARY CUSTOM DISTRICTS, BUT LET'S USE THE DISTRICTS THAT WE ALREADY HAVE ON THE BOOKS TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE. SO THAT DROVE WHAT YOU SEE ON THE PROPOSAL TO A LARGE EXTENT.
 The corridor is mostly zoned C1 and C2, and those are conventional use-based districts. And the proposal is to rezone those to community service and urban thoroughfare districts, which are form-based districts. So the primary differences are the introduction of allowing residential uses.
 and the establishment of a build 2 zone. The other allowed uses in those districts and the height of buildings are largely the same. The additional items that there's been considerable discussion both since the meeting two weeks ago, some of you were able to find time on your schedule to walk the area last night,
 I think all these areas have been discussed, these subjects have been discussed extensively in the community. The first one is a kind of a modest change, which would be to move use unit 17, which is transportation, trades and services, and use unit 18, which is gasoline service station and drive-in, drive-through restaurants from permitted uses to conditional uses.
 What this would do, they would still be legal uses, they would be nonconforming, they would have an avenue to consider reconstruction or improvement or even expansion, but they would have to go to the Planning Commission for a conditional use permit.
 Of course, the reason for that is that these are highway uses and the goal is to turn it into a pedestrian district. The second one, and this has been the subject of extensive discussion.
 Planning Commission recommended just keeping the height limitations that are in the existing districts, which are five stories and seven stories for those two districts. Staff had recommended that residential uses be limited to three stories. This is kind of a, I don't want to call it a compromise, but it's in between.
 And the proposal would be just simply to limit the entire corridor to four stories for all the property that's in the overlay area, which is the next agenda item on your agenda. Staff supports both of these additional modifications and I'd be happy to answer your questions.
 What public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. Thank you. I'm very impressed. I think that these two issues address the bulk of my concerns. I still have some concerns about the build-to zone. I do think it's a little deep. I prefer to see it from zero to ten feet.
 but i wholeheartedly endorse these two proposed changes as i think they will really go a long way to delivering that vibrant walkable mixed-use district that we're looking to do here thank you
 I also endorse these changes. I've had a lot of input from the neighborhood, especially the neighborhoods, the Washington Willow historic neighborhood and the Wilson Park historic neighborhood. And the concern was with the five to seven stories.
 connecting the neighborhoods and making them feel more connected and walkable, that there would be some large development, especially in the higher elevations, that would aesthetically and possibly in some way divide the connectivity between the two neighborhoods. By allowing the four stories for residential along the whole,
 through a fair that we're talking about here, you're going to see actually continuity and truly connectivity between the two neighborhoods. And there's certainly that desire between the two neighborhoods and everyone that lives on both sides of College Avenue. I think when you look at the heritage of College Avenue and kind of what it was once upon a
 input from people who recall what it used to be. We're going back truly to a walkable main street, a main street through the center of the city that still allows the connectivity that we're desiring. So I certainly think that this is a good way to work through this and allow the development that we desire along this very attractive area in our city.
 Okay. Thank you. Mayor, I move we amend the ordinance as described by staff with the request on the screen, number one, to move use units 17 and 18 to conditional uses in both districts as applicable and number two, to reduce the maximum allowed height to four stories for all uses. Okay. Am I good in discussion on the amendment?
 Mayor, if I could make a point, the four-story height needs to be on the overlay item as opposed to changing the entire zoning. I think that's the intention of the council, correct? I think both would be partly overlay. I think that the four-story one should probably go with the overlay district, which is the next ordinance, not this one. Right. And this ordinance...
 was not changing, you know, I did draft for you, Alderman, or Councilmember Petty, an ordinance that would, in fact, move these two use units to conditional uses. And that ordinance is not before us. You didn't have me present it. You wanted to wait on that.
 So that's a real ordinance that needs to be read rather than just say we want to do that. I'm not intending to talk about that ordinance now. I just misunderstood that these amendments needed to be made on the following item. Okay. Certainly we can change number two in the next ordinance in order to accomplish that. Okay. So we need to do number one now and number two in the second one?
 Number one is really a standalone ordinance that I've drafted on behalf of Alderman Petty, and it's not before the council, not on our agenda. No, that's not correct. What I believe staff's recommending is that these both recommendations only apply in the overlay district. And that's what my motion was intended to reflect, so I'll make that motion. That was our . . . So let's wait for the next ordinance then and see if you can put both of them in that one. So we need to wait on the amendment until the next . . .
 This is a rezoning ordinance, but it's not changing any of the, either one of those two points. I got it. All right.
 Yes, Sarah. I'm not sure that I'm comfortable voting to approve it without the overlay district done first because I would not support it without these amendments to the overlay district. And maybe we need to hold this one on this reading and then do the overlay district and then we can come back and...
 You can certainly move to amend the rules and place the other ordinance before the council now. If you'll readjust the agenda by placing that one above this one. Thank you. I would like to do so. So moved. We move to... We move to consider the overlay district first so that we can nail down the overlay district and then we can approve the rezone. Mark? I will second that. Okie dokie. All right. Is there any discussion on that?
 Is there any public discussion on that? I'm sure there isn't. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, now I read number two, correct? All right.
 In order to amend 166.21 Downtown Design Overlay District by admitting the applicability section to include College Avenue Overlay District and to enact 166.26 College Avenue Overlay District, I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Sarah, sorry. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark? I'll second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay. Do you have anything else you want to add on that or anything? You're pretty well. No, Mayor. Okay. I think what you need to do is look under general requirements in that particular section 2 and leave subsection 1 the same, which says buildings shall be constructed in accordance with the downtown design overlay district architecture standards. But number 2 should be buildings shall have a maximum height of four stories.
 And number three, that, well, unfortunately that's been removed now, but what Garber might tell us will be section three will be the applicability of changing the currently allowed uses and make them conditional uses for those districts as stated in number one. You all got all that? Don't ask me to read it at this point. Okay. Mark. Mark.
 John? Mr. Mayor, I have a couple of questions for Mr. Gardner. How is the development community accepting these changes? Is this something they expect or meet their expectations? Do you see a lot of investment in this area from the development community? We have only heard support. We've heard from several property owners that were interested in
 expanding the allowed uses to the residential uses. We've also heard from a developer who supported the reduction in the height limitations. He felt that the property was historically over zoned and perhaps was not in the best
 receiving some speculative value rather than that made it hard for someone to do something with the property. Thank you. Anything else? This is the amendment, correct? Yes, and I think I can probably word it a little bit better here. It would be to amend, as I said, the first amendment.
 Under general requirements, the first subsection will be the same. The second subsection will say the maximum height of all structures shall not exceed four stories. And then number three would say that use units 17 and 18 shall be moved from permitted uses to conditional uses within this district. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Okay. Is that good? Okay. Any public comment on that?
 Okay, bring it back. All right, there's no other discussion. Sandra, would you please call the roll? We have a motion and a second to amend this ordinance. Okay. Do we? Go ahead. So moved. Mark? Second. We have a motion and a second to amend this ordinance. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Kenneth? Yes. Matt? Yes. Lutcher? Yes. Sam? Yes. Mark? Yes. Mark? Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, that takes care of that now. We'll entertain a motion go to the third final reading sir actually, I wanted to Make a motion to amend the bill to zone from the current 10 to 25 feet from 0 to 10 feet In the walking tour on I guess it was yesterday
 We walked along the street and were able to measure some of the different buildings and one of the storefronts in particular that I thought was probably the most successful storefront was the Lacuna Modern building, which would actually not be in compliance with the new build 2 zone because it was so close to the street.
 And I have concerns that the 25-foot Build 2 zone is too far from the street, especially when you consider that only 50% of the frontage has to be built to the Build 2 zone. So that would allow buildings to be set back far, much further from the street than would support that.
 The vital retail and streetscape that we really need to create here. I want to remind the council that we're heavily dependent on sales tax revenue, but we don't have a good pedestrian oriented retail and restaurant district in the city. We have Dixon Street, which is mostly bars and restaurants, but we don't have a lot of storefronts and shopping zones.
 And I think this is a really great opportunity to create that by moving the buildings closer to the street with vital and active storefronts on the facades, so I would like to move that we amend the Bill to zone from zero or from 10 to 25 feet to zero to 10 feet Okay, so your amendment is from 10 to 25 setback to zero to 10 correct correct, okay? We have a second
 Mark? I will second that because I do think we need to discuss it. Okay. We have a motion and a second. So what is the discussion? Matthew? Yes, thank you, Mayor. Page one, I'm supportive of the intent here, but I don't think the mechanism is right. And that's because the street is...
 uh there's already not a lot of room in it to do what we would like to do i think we'd really benefit from having a an actual urban design process here so we knew what the street what we wanted the street to look like in the future so for a couple of reasons i i think we should maintain the build two lines as proposed number one uh
 There's actually been a couple of studies of the street done today. For example, if we wanted to put a boulevard in the street, it is impossible to do that in the current right-of-way and provide for parking or to provide for adequate pedestrian sidewalks. The right-of-way simply isn't available to give us these kinds of options.
 That kind of calculus is compounded, and when we start talking about transit or protected cycleways, we simply don't have the right-of-way to do the things that we would like to do, and that's compounded the closer the buildings get to the street, because if we have to acquire right-of-way in the future, acquiring right-of-ways with buildings constructed as
 obviously so much more expensive and difficult to retrofit than patio spaces or walkways. I think I would have been very bullish in supporting this amendment if we didn't have a law on the books that's relatively new, that's only about a year or so old. My co-author that with staff and sponsored it here, and it was passed unanimously by the
 plan commission the council to restrict parking in front of buildings and to insist upon pedestrian oriented elements i'd probably take that a step farther here and say that um you know small green spaces which i really maybe characterize as green band-aids are probably also probably not appropriate on this stretch i think they've got to be pedestrian oriented so i think there's more about the treatment of space than it is about the depth certainly we could cross some threshold
 where the depth would be prohibitive with respect to these planes. I don't think 25 feet is at that threshold. More to the point, I think that...
 When anybody looks at this any of these sites for development they are going to be Driven to put buildings as close to the street as they can because we require parking to be in the rear I expect very few buildings will take advantage of a build to zone that allows 25 feet But if they did they would have to make that a pedestrian space, so I don't see anything wrong with the
 The eventuality of restaurants sitting out near the road if we can ever tame the street. I think Putting buildings within 10 feet of the right-of-way would prevent a lot of that as an example a Project I'm doing in my private sector life right now We wanted to put close to the street on a zero lot line. We were allowed to do it with the zoning We had a utility easement that prevented us from doing so now we're going to have a patio out in front with a
 900 square feet of seating that we would have never elected to do if the bill 2 line or if the utility easement hadn't been there. So I think we're preserving some of these opportunities in the future if we maintain the bill 2 zone. I might even go farther with new laws, laws that we don't have today and require some of that space be maintained as a travel way for pedestrians because I think in a lot of
 When we think about the vision we have for this as a main street retail and residential corridor, a 10-foot sidewalk is not enough to support that. And having buildings on zero lot line on the right-of-way right now would prevent us from having sidewalks that are wider than are currently installed today, which are adequate for today but probably inadequate for the future. And really going back to cycling and transit issues or other urban design issues with respect to the street cross-section, I think it really limits us.
 So I'm not going to make a particularly passionate argument to preserve what's on the books today, but I think that what is on the books today is the right thing. Okay. Sarah? I would just note that on the walking tour, the buildings that were recessed back around 25 feet, the front areas mostly they were filled with cigarette butts or poorly maintained landscaping, trash, etc.
 Um, it wasn't the type of streetscape that I really felt like was enticing to attract people out to walk and present the best space for our city. And I would like us to have a hard build to line so that we have a consistent streetscape wherever that is. And, you know, if that's 10 feet back, that's fine.
 fine but I feel like it's very important when creating a walkable district that we have a hard urban edge and establish that streetscape and when you only have 50% of the building that has to meet that and the other 50% can be recessed or there could be parking behind screening we're starting to develop holes in the streetscape which are detrimental to the overall vitality and invitingness of the space.
 Is there any public comment on this? All right. Public comment. Everybody gets one turn to microphone. You have five minutes. Please introduce yourself. Tell us, give us your address and keep your comments directed to me and don't engage council member or anybody in the audience. Okay. And stay on topic. We're on the amendment of the bill, the setback lines.
 And the motion is from zero to 10 feet, correct? All right. Hi, my name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Bradstreet Lane. I know that there are some here who want to keep the shorter set to amend it to be shorter setbacks, and I want to caution against that. It would be one thing if this was going to be used for parking, but it's not going to be.
 The council wants to make college a pedestrian pathway and a thoroughfare for pedestrian traffic and some bicycle traffic. However, right now those sidewalks are adequate, but in the future they won't be right now. If you're walking, when you're walking, I walk a lot places and it's enough space for one person walk by. It's not going to be enough space when you have a group of people who are shopping walking by back and forth. It also,
 It also, a larger setback kind of goes with the historical district in that area. Historically, that area was houses and commercial areas and they had a larger setback. It's not like it's on the square where the setbacks have been shorter this entire time. It also would allow a more robust plaza space for dining, shopping, and a pedestrian greenway because you have that larger setback you could have little walkable, like little parks and greenways.
 Larger setbacks have also been developed in Seattle, Portland, Alexandria, and Annapolis to revitalize their walkability. They actually increased the setback. They took away some of the road to make a larger setback so that they could walk. And it's further advocated by many urban designers including Cy Palmer in his book, Creating a Vibrant Urban City Center. And one last thing, personally, I grew up in three towns. This one, Oceanside, California, and Frederick, Maryland.
 Frederick, Maryland is a little unique in that area in that it didn't get burned down when the Confederacy marched through Gettysburg and all the other towns did. So its setbacks are still the original setbacks from back in the early 1700s to 1800s. Those setbacks are about 10 feet.
 and trucks have problems getting through there. People don't like to walk there. The city spent millions of dollars, in fact, making a new walkability center on the creek because people didn't walk on the historical towns because of the way the cars were going and everything.
 The buildings that are there are similar to what we're wanting to build on college, and yet with that shorter setback, they ended up, a lot of the buildings, built entrances on the back ends of their buildings, and then they built a new walkability plaza on the back side. So that's just something to keep in mind, that other cities have kept that larger walkback or the setback so that it's more walkable. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this?
 Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. What other discussion do we have on this? Okay. Okay.
 I just wanted to remind the council of several examples of zero setbacks. That would be Block Street, Mountain Street, Center Street, Dixon Street. And these are really the core of our vibrant, walkable city, demonstrate the power of the zero foot setback. And, you know, I guess the question is, do we want...
 to create more of those high quality urban spaces or are we going to concede some of our urban environment to places for cigarette butts to collect and plazas? I mean, if you want to look at a 25 foot setback, you can look at Arvest Plaza.
 on the corner of the square and think about how much space or how much utilization that space actually gets and The reality is very little So I think that Block Street or Center Street or Mountain Street are much more successful in urban environments than a place like our best Plaza. Thank you Oh
 I appreciate the comparisons, but I think that it's important to note that College Avenue is a thoroughfare, and we want it to be an urban thoroughfare instead of the kind of thoroughfare that it is today. Lots of the other streets in our community are local streets in nature, which means they can be very small streets.
 and they are still entirely adequate. College Avenue, we want it to be something that we don't have an example of today. So I think it's really important that we know that it's something that we don't have today. And the intent of the requirement for pedestrian oriented elements and pedestrian oriented frontages that we have on the books that would apply here
 is to create the semi-public or public-private frontage zones between the right-of-way boundary and the building frontage itself. Those kinds of zones are really important or really valuable whenever they are used. They're certainly not critical for every street.
 Some of the examples that were just mentioned, Center Street doesn't have frontage zones at all. It's all zero lot lines. It's a beautiful street. It's a great street. It's been undergoing an incredible revitalization since we did it and we should be very proud of it. Block Avenue has a mixture of zero lot line development and frontage zones.
 A lot of people really enjoy sitting in front of the little red company and maybe would even appreciate a little bit more space to do so. So I don't think there are any hard lines here. I don't think there's an answer that is applicable in every single condition. For me, what I'm thinking about is what are the future needs for College Avenue? It's always going to be a major transportation corridor.
 It will probably not always be a transportation corridor that can only be traversed by vehicles. I imagine in the future that it will be a corridor that's traversed by people on foot, and people on bike, and people in transit, and people in cars. And it is exceedingly difficult as somebody who's actually participated in professional studies at a community design center here, is exceedingly difficult given the right of way that is there now to accommodate that vision.
 Now, if we have a little bit extra space outside of the current right-of-way that we can dedicate to some of these other uses, it becomes a little bit less difficult, and that's what I'm basing my vote on. Okay. John. Thank you, Mayor. This is an issue that we're getting into personal preferences some, and it reminds us that a lot of our retail is moving to online.
 And we might have very nice visions of a fun retail area, very walkable and very community-friendly, and building relationships. I like that atmosphere. I enjoy those things. But a lot of our people are buying online now, so a brisk retail center may be something we're just talking about that may not actually come into being.
 So remind us of that. I'm not saying we shouldn't build this. I'm not saying this is a bad idea. It sounds like a good idea. But I'd remind Council Member Marsh that just because we have a larger space, that doesn't necessarily follow if there'll be cigarette butts accumulating there. I detest cigarette butts or any kind of litter. And I think that speaks poorly of people who engage in that activity. We need to encourage people not to engage in that activity.
 But, you know, I'm not real passionate one way or the other. I just want developers to have incentives to come in and build what we're envisioning. And if they can't make any money doing that, then, you know, that's going to be difficult to even get it built. And it seems like the more space or the less the regulatory environment there, the less restrictive those regulations are, the more likely we're going to have people come in and build. And I like that aspect of it.
 okay sarah well my proposal would actually allow more a larger building footprint so it would increase the building buildable area on each lot
 As far as the transformation of retail, it is true that we are seeing a huge shift of retailing to online because the reality is that people don't enjoy getting in cars, fighting traffic, and going to big box stores. But what is succeeding is experiential retail and the idea that you're not necessarily going to look for a specific product, but you're going out to enjoy day shopping.
 and you want to take your mother out to brunch and then go to stop in and try on things. Because as good as online retailing is for standard sized products, they still have not mastered clothing and fit for people. So experiential retail and providing a superbly walkable environment for retail is absolutely critical to keeping that industry alive in our community.
 And I forget what the third thing was that I was going to address. But it does increase the buildable area. Oh, the cigarette butts. And I'm just telling you what we saw on the walking tour yesterday. And I wish you had been able to attend. Thank you. Okay. Dawn.
 Thank you, Mayor. I love hearing this debate, particularly from two of our new urbanists on the council, because it really gives, I think, a good context of people who really agree about the environment we want to create and different ways to do it. I just wanted to share one thing that the staff participated in, in the ULI Healthy Corridor sessions. We actually also had to walk, and there was a lot of feedback and discussion during that,
 educational opportunity from people and how they felt in various parts of College Avenue when we were walking north to towards Evelyn Hills with no sidewalk on what would have been like a cow path how unsafe it felt how safe the east side of the street newly constructed felt until we got down to
 Is it Trenton there at the bottom? Where the road is much more, where we lost the tree barrier and some green space barrier because the right-of-way was compressed. At the time that that building went in, the council waived the...
 requirement of the right-of-way dedication at that time. And so while that is a built-to zone, I would say that an overwhelming majority of the people that were at that session talked about not feeling safe walking on it. And that's really where the staff, I think, took the initial position of that 10 feet is good. 25 could be too large. That's why I love hearing this debate, because I think we could all point to examples where
 You know, 25 might be too large and zero can be way too close. And so depending on where you are on the street and what the interaction is. I said this last time. I'm just going to say it again because I think sometimes we forget that we're making decisions that if
 If we see bad consequences, we can change. This isn't a 500-year decision that can never be looked at. And we would encourage you to, if you're going to look at it, maybe look for a compromise between these two. You know, at 10 to 15, if 25 is too far, but going to zero, when you look at this entire area, I want you to know that in the healthy corridor study, there are sections of the street where that just simply doesn't work.
 and feel safe in creating the environment that you want to build. I think as staff, having heard that from the public, it was important for us to make sure we share that with you. But thank you, too, for the debate, because I loved hearing that. Yeah, and I do, too. And I would like to mark your attention.
 Well, I was going to add to this. I wanted to hear this debate because I did have the opportunity to attend a New Urbanism conference in New Orleans where they're rebuilding, and of course they have this issue to build to the setbacks, especially as they're looking at redevelopment and trying to integrate the historical and rebuilding, how they're looking at things.
 And this is exactly what we looked at when we were on our walking tour in different areas of New Orleans. And I wanted to have this discussion so we could visualize it directly with College Avenue. If you're familiar with New Orleans, a lot of the activity for the residential areas are in the front yards, not the back yards, because of the setbacks, even in some of the larger buildings. And there's also a very vibrant...
 commercial, there's still vibrant commercial areas that do have some setbacks that are around a pedestrian, a wider pedestrian area. But then of course as you get down to the center of the old city, everything is zero lot line. So I wanted to hear this discussion and I'm thinking about it since I do live in this neighborhood and I was raised here
 And I do think about the safety when you walk up and down College Avenue. And I also don't want to develop a tunnel in some of the areas along College Avenue. So I probably, even though I seconded this because I wanted the discussion and I think that we will have to probably revisit this as we start looking at developments.
 I most likely, Sarah, will not support this, but I wanted the discussion and I hope that people will visualize this and take the opportunity also to walk up and down College Avenue because we can always come back and revisit this if there is a moment of inspiration that someone has some good idea or we can amend it.
 This is exactly the conversation that I was hoping that we would hear. I'm putting kind of my walking tour experience in New Orleans along with some of the exceptional speakers that we heard throughout the nation where this development of walkability, connectivity, pedestrian activity is certainly the topic of conversation and redevelopment for higher density vehicles.
 downtown areas. So thank you to Matthew and Sarah for bringing the points up. And I just wanted to mention that. Thanks. Yes, I think this has really been a really good discussion because, you know, my experience with the sidewalk next to the street has been Razorback Road, which I know they move, they travel down that road pretty quick. But I think it's
 That was always, that's one of the reasons when we did the other section. We were walking a little bit with our back to it. You just, you know, you can feel the cars just brush by you as you're walking down that sidewalk. On the old sidewalk, but when they put the new apartments in, they put just a little bit of green space in there. And I can't tell you the difference on how much safer you feel having a little bit of,
 space between you and that highway. And College Avenue is a very highly trafficked area and even though we've got a wider sidewalk there, it's you know, I guess my experience on Regenbach Road made me a little more edgy even walking down the wider sidewalk. So, I mean, and I understand the
 zero to ten foot lot line. I agree with you on the retail. I think that's a really good point on the retail. I just have a, I'd like to see a little more space on there than just a zero lot line on that major thoroughfare. I swear to God. I know you're going to ten feet. I just don't know how comfortable I would feel on that either. That would be
 So that's just sort of my two cents. I'm not really weighing in. I just, well, I am weighing in. I guess I would prefer a little more space there than the zero lot line. Maybe that'll work. I just had, I'm just a little bit, just my experiences on Razorback Road walking that, maybe a little more edgy walking out along the highway. Cars going by. Anyway, any other discussion on it? All right. If there's not, we're going to vote on the amendment. All right.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. No. Okay. Now we're back to the ordinance itself. We are on the third reading if you wish to go there.
 I mean, we need a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. The clerk says we're actually on the third reading right now. Okay, good. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't understand her. We need a motion. I want to be sure I was tracking right on this. Adele? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark? I'll second that. All right. Oop, I hit that wrong. Am I good? Okay. Sonja, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to amend section 166.21, downtown design overlay district by amending the applicability section to include college avenue overlay district and to enact section 166.26, college avenue overlay district.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll? Teddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Fetch? Yes. McPhear? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? No. Hinton? Yes. Okay.
 Thank you all. Now we go back to number one, correct? That's correct. I'm going to read that again. An ordinance to rezone all parcels within or near College Avenue is shown in Exhibit C of the Planning Department's Agenda Memo comprising about 24.62 acres. And we are on the, you know, we've gone through the second reading. We would need a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Is that correct, Sandra? Yes. That's what I have on my notes anyway.
 And so not that I know of, I think we moved the amendment stuff to the second one if I got all that straight. That's what I think. Now we're back to the first one after we've amended the second one. This is the actual rezoning. Yes, this is the actual, this is the actual rezoning. John? Mr. Mayor, I move we go ahead and pass it. Well, we need to go to the third and final reading. All right. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. All right. Do we have a second? Second. Second. Second. Second. Second.
 I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Hutch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to rezone all partials within or near College Avenue was shown on Exhibit C of the Planning Department's agenda memo comprising about 24.62 acres. Okay. Any final comments from the council?
 Thank you, Mayor. This has been a long process obviously and something that's been talked about for more than a decade, more informally. I think tonight is almost a historic occasion for people that have cared about college or have ever seen that old picture of college with the trees and the dirt road and reminisce for something like that. Thank you.
 I think the amendments we made tonight were really important. Certainly it made me a lot more comfortable with the program. And I wanted to take just a second to talk about what might happen up the rest of college. The rest of the street is just as important, if not more important than this part of the road. I think we're dealing with this first because it's close to the downtown and we've made a multi-million dollar investment in the infrastructure. So there's a lot of justification in us taking on a battery zoning like this.
 From a development perspective, though, it's clear that the remainder of college as you move farther north is
 more ripe for development than this part. Primarily due to parcel size and topography and hydrology. There's a lot of stuff in the floodplain here, there's a lot of stuff that is on the side of a hill, or at the top of the hill, or at the bottom of the hill, or partials with all three characteristics that make developing these, especially on small parcels where you don't have a lot of room to work with and you have to play the game of inches to fit things on the site. It makes development very difficult.
 So part of my comment I think is about managing expectations about what this change means for us. I don't think that we're going to see
 A lot of development starts arising from this action at the level that we're hoping for. The vision that we've cast for what the street's going to be is going to require us to do more with the road. If you've ever walked the road, or if you make a point after this to go walk the road, you'll notice that just the sound of the air as cars move through it is louder than you talk.
 So just from an experiential perspective, what it means to be a human on the street, we aren't able to do and participate in the kinds of activities that we're talking about.
 because the street itself does not support it. So we still got more work to do. I don't think anybody should think that we're done. With this, it's just one step of many. And so that was my first point, was to manage some expectations. But the second point is I think we need to keep doing this and be aggressive about moving this kind of program farther up the street. We've probably got most of the techniques and mechanisms and tools that we need to do that, but maybe not all of them. Maybe we need some new ones.
 I'm hopeful we can figure that out in the next year. And I think that the community is eager for it. There's a College Avenue redevelopment community hosted at the Chamber of Commerce. In addition to...
 more than a decade worth of documented and memorialized public input calling for redevelopment of this street as we move farther north. So I think we've set a precedent here. I think as we move farther north, the development interest increases. I think the allowable intensity in terms of building height and allowed uses increases as we go up the street.
 At least that's my sense of things. So I hope we won't delay unnecessarily in looking at the rest of the street because I know that there's even more interest in redeveloping the rest of it just because of the conditions that are there. So I think tonight's a great start, and I hope we can go farther in 2018. Okay, any other comments? Sundridge, please call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you. That was a great discussion, by the way. All right. Under new business, number one.
 a resolution to thank the walton family foundation to authorize mayor jordan to accept the design excellence program grant from walton family foundation in the amount of one million seven hundred and seventy thousand dollars to fund the design of an interactive outdoor cultural arts corridor along the raised back regional greenway to authorize the issuance of the
 of a request for qualifications with conditions that only firms pre-approved the walton family foundation may respond and to approve a budget adjustment peter mayor council good evening we're very excited to recommend acceptance of this 1.77 million dollar grant for the design excellence program for the design of fayetteville's cultural arts corridor
 from the Walton Family Foundation. As you may be aware, the Walton Family Foundation's Design Excellence Program provides financial support to government organizations, school districts, and nonprofits in Benton and Washington counties for the development of spaces intended for public purposes. The program provides world-class design and planning expertise for the design of those projects.
 The 2017 Design Excellence Program focuses on parks and green spaces and outdoor elements specifically. Qualifying projects were required to meet five criteria. They must make a compelling case for how projects increase public access to the space and strengthen surrounding neighborhoods. They must include a funding plan for their project.
 They must leverage their connected trail network, develop a excuse me, demonstrated commitment to sustainability and embody a spirit of innovation to encourage more visitors to the area. In October the City of Fayetteville submitted a grant application for the design of a 50 acre interactive cultural arts corridor in
 alongside the Razorback Regional Greenway in downtown Fayetteville. The corridor is anchored by the Fayetteville Public Library and the Fay Jones Natural Area on the south end of the corridor. To the north is the Walton Arts Center, the Dixon Street Entertainment District area, and Theatre Squared, which is under construction and also is a Design Excellence Program Award winner. The Razorback Regional Greenway is the connective tissue between all of those elements.
 The city specifically requested design assistance for improvement of infrastructure and public spaces within 12 acres on that 50 acre inside that 50 acre area.
 The design components could include festival spaces, public plazas, outdoor classrooms, streetscapes, green infrastructure, trail improvements, natural spaces, and other outdoor elements. A reminder that this grant is for the design of outdoor elements only and cannot be used for the design of public buildings, but can be used to design or allocate space for the footprint of those potential public buildings.
 The selected recipients of the Walton Family Foundation's Design Excellence Program receive 100% of the design funding for their projects. Fayetteville's design timeline has been identified over a 24-month time period from December 2017 through December 2019. And...
 Projects are required to utilize a list of design consultants that have been preselected by the Walton Family Foundation's Design Excellence Program. And you'll notice that in the resolution there is a whereas clause that addresses this requirement of the grant.
 By accepting this grant, the City is committing to funding the implementation of the final approved design by 2021. The Walton Family Foundation is aware that due to the size of the construction cost for this project, the primary funding source for the project would likely be a bond funded, a voter approved bond fund. Other CIP funding has been identified as supplementary funding to aid in the construction of that
 but that CIP funding would not be enough to construct the full project. Thus, there's also a whereas clause in the resolution that addresses the need for voter-approved bond support to fund the final construction of the project. In your packet, you'll find the program letter, the grant acceptance program letter, our design excellence award grant.
 A map on the final page of the grant program shows that 50-acre boundary, and then there's a budget adjustment for the $1.77 million acceptance of the grant award. Finally, I just wanted to take a moment to thank the Walton Family Foundation for their generous support on this particular project and the many other projects that they have invested in in the city of Fayetteville. Mayor, I want to add a couple of comments to Peter's comments.
 One, I want to thank Peter and his team who worked hard on putting this grant together, application for the city to even have this opportunity in front of us. I think people don't realize that the sustainability and parking division does a lot more than sustainability and parking. They get handed a lot of projects that don't fit anywhere in the city, and we really do appreciate their work on this, and Lee Folson for his work on writing this as well.
 I do want to make it clear because I think when we went out to do this grant application, we were extremely concerned because no one likes to ask someone for money in an area that's sensitive that people have a history of not agreeing on. And so we have a lot of stakeholders with a lot of various interests.
 We have council members on the redevelopment of the lot and the establishment of corner buildings in our downtown master plan. We have the Walton Arts Center where proximity parking of their patrons is important to them. We have Dixon Street merchants who use the south end of this parameter we're talking about for festival activities. We have an urban trail that connects the downtown.
 from our library, Prairie Street, actually, all the way to this area. And we have a lot of ownership. While it sits in Ward 2, it's owned by everybody. I think we hear that a lot. And so one of the key things that we have made clear to all of our stakeholders is for no one to come with a preconceived idea
 idea of what must go where, that we actually have the benefit of someone else paying for world-renowned design architects to deal with all of these issues and give us the best opportunity possible. And I think that it's exciting in the sense that we've been able to do that. We've also made it clear that when you're talking about a project this size that is
 really life changing and it goes back to Mayor Jordan's vision in the state of the city that he wanted to create a downtown entertainment district that would basically become the Times Square of Northwest Arkansas. This is a step in that direction. It's a big bold vision and it's going to require big bold funding to make that happen, which means when you talk about future funding of bond issues, we're talking about projects
 of the size that must go in that. And the Walton family, we've been clear to articulate, will require voter support, which is why we have to get this right for the council and the people who would actually support it in the future if the council chooses to go that direction. But I want you to know, I think, and hopefully we'll hear some of these comments from the public tonight, but we have met with key stakeholders, folks,
 And I believe we have a really good, open mind towards this project and a chance to really get it right and truly have place changing here in our city. Very important . All right. Any comments, questions from the council? John. Mr. Mayor, I'm just thinking out loud. We're spending, I'm very grateful for the contribution from the Walden Family Foundation
 and they're giving us $1.7 million in design money, what will the projected cost of the project build-out be? Do we know that? We've done a very high-level preliminary estimate at a construction cost somewhere in the $15 million to $20 million range. So we'll be asking our voters to approve bond issues to cover that expense? We will. Okay. Thank you, Mayor.
 I do want to say for Councilmember Latour that the $1.77 million was established by using 12% and saying if that was 12%, which is normally designed between 10 and 15, so we took the middle percentage, and that's how we got the range that we gave you. We don't really know until we see a design. Any other questions? All right. What public comment do we have on this?
 Mayor, Council, my name is David Johnson. I live at 1512 North Crestwood. I think we all acknowledge that this city has a rich heritage and visionary development, transformational development. If we think about the downtown square, if we think about the town center, if we think about the Walton Arts Center, we think about...
 Theater Square, our library, a long history of development that has truly transformed our downtown district. And when you lay this against those efforts and that vision, I think it really stands as an opportunity for us to propel ourselves
 far into the future in terms of a destination to be all destinations and not just Northwest Arkansas but in all of the region, so I Request that you authorized the mayor The ability to accept this grant. Thank you. Who else like to address this on this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council Yes, thank you mayor. I Couldn't be more thrilled about this. I
 Yeah, I think one of the hardest things for people in an elected position to do is to make decisions in consideration of what residents who don't live here or maybe aren't even born yet want.
 even though there are going to be as many of them as there are residents here today in the future. I think this is one of those rare times where we're able to do that with clear vision. A decision to build something like this is really hard to overstate what its impact is. Public spaces like this that are in other parts of the world,
 are extremely durable. Central Park will outlast, it could outlast the United States government itself, just as many of the plazas in Europe, in France, in Italy have outlasted numerous governments and survived even revolutions. So when we talk about timescales and we talk about making an improvement in the city on the order of centuries, that is what we're talking about tonight.
 And when we talk about costs as a useful benchmark, we have budgeted, or we haven't budgeted, but we have accounted the cost of a sports complex on the south end of town at more than $20 million. A sports complex is unlikely to be as durable as this kind of space.
 or as important to our identity as this kind of space. This is the kind of thing that will define not just who we are, but who our great-grandchildren in Fayetteville think Fayettevillians are. So it's really hard to overstate this, the impact of this in future generations or the value of it today. How do you measure the value of witnessing something like a proposal?
 There's not a place to go in Fayetteville today to watch things like that happen. And this could be that sort of place.
 This is something that could be so core to our identity as to give us the optimism that's required to really reimagine what Fayetteville can be. So I know that this kind of fuzzy optimism can be a little tiring when you hear it from politicians. Right.
 But this is something that will be very real for us. And this is something that people who we don't even know about yet and who aren't even born yet will appreciate forever. It's every bit as big and impactful as something like Mount Kessler or maybe even more so. So I can't wait to see what the design process looks like. I appreciate so much.
 that we are advising people to abandon their preconceptions. I think there can be absolutely no sacred cows whenever we are designing a space that is intended to fulfill such a high purpose.
 So, whatever your preconceived notions are about where buildings should be or how much parking should be there or any other characteristic of that, it's very important, and I think we all start from a blank slate and go to a very high altitude here and start thinking about what this means for us on the scale of centuries.
 I wish we could do that so much more often in our decisions because I think it leads to better, more wise decisions. This is a chance that we have to do that. I hope we can all support this and I hope we can all continue to support this when the funding proposals come in and those decisions become more and more difficult. We need to remember what it is we're trying to create here.
 and not confuse it with something that might be more temporary in nature. Okay. Any other comments from the council? We need a motion. Matthew. May I move approval? Mark. I'll second that. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Council, I would like to say that
 that this was something that we worked on for a long time um and i i certainly want to thank peter and his staff the chief of staff and everybody that worked on this the wall foundation and everybody that worked with us you know there's a lot of decisions you have to make and and one thing that we
 that we do around here. I tell folks all the time, I'll not throw out 10 things if I hit on three. I'm in the baseball hall thing. But there are certain decisions that you make that if you're going to be the best city and if you're going to be as progressive as we claim to be, you've got to have the top schools and the best libraries. You've got to have the best trail systems and sidewalks and planning for the future and protecting your green spaces.
 And you've got to mix all that together to make a totally, totally wonderful place to live, work, and play. And that's not easy. So sometimes you cannot stay basically in the safe zones. You have to go into places, as I say, sometimes I have a sign in my office that says if you never depart, you never arrive, you have to move. And I've said this before, we'll say it again, you have to move in places you've never been
 And if you don't do that, you stay right where you are, and you're stuck, and your city's stuck. And this city doesn't get stuck. We keep moving. We keep progressing. And I believe we truly live in a wonderful place. And certainly, our arts is Theater Square, and the Walton Arts Center expansion, and moving into this arts corridor
 is an area that will put us, I believe, truly on the map, not only in the region, but not only in the state, but anywhere in the United States. So that's why this kind of project is so important to us. So with that, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Funch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 And thank you all very much. And moving right along, the resolution expressed the City Council's acceptance and approval of the Theater Square's incorporated pledges and financial commitments as sufficient to ensure completion of the Theater Square's $31,500,000 theater project and to authorize Mayor Jordan to invest the promised $3.1 million as construction reimbursements pursuant
 to the contract of June 28, 2017. Paul? As you all recall, in March, you approved a budget adjustment and agreed to participate in funding of the Theater Squared new constructed building to the tune of $3.1 million. At that point in time, you authorized the mayor to enter into an agreement with Theater Squared
 to actually create a contract with them in regard to reimbursement or transfer of the money to participate in that funding. In that contract...
 that was agreed to by theater square and the mayor there was a provision that before any reimbursement would be made for that money that we would come forward to the city council to approve a contract for that reimbursement and one of the issues in there was to ensure that there was financial funding to complete the project at that point in time
 As Chief Financial Officer, the Mayor instructed me to look at the finances of this project to ensure that it would be completed. I did so. I identified that this project, which will run $31.5 million, had sufficient funding to be completed.
 I personally looked at underlying documentation, see that about $21.3 million had been pledged to the project. In addition to that, Arvest Bank had arranged for a loan of up to $18.5 million for funding to ensure the completion. So based on that.
 I am recommending that the financing is there to complete the project. Now, the one area or area of concern or risk I need to point out to you is as I looked at the construction contracts,
 THEATER SQUARE DOES NOT HAVE A PERFORMANCE BOND WITH THE CONTRACT MANAGER. PERFORMANCE BOND FINANCIALLY SECURES THE COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT. IT'S NORMAL IN A PROJECT OF THIS SIZE. THE CITY IS LEGAL REQUIRED IF WE WENT INTO A $31 MILLION PROJECT TO HAVE A PERFORMANCE BOND. HOWEVER, THEATER SQUARE DID NOT FEEL THAT THE COST OF THAT BOND,
 was worth securing it to ensure completion by the contract manager. The contract manager at Baldwin and Schell, large organization, good reputation, so therefore you need to evaluate the risk of whether or not the project will be completed. Although this I would not say is a significant risk, it is a risk
 JUST LIKE INSURANCE, YOU DON'T NEED IT UNTIL SOMETHING HAPPENS. HOWEVER, OUR COMMITMENT IS $3.1 MILLION IN THIS PROJECT. OUR FACILITIES MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR WILL OVERALL
 oversee the work done for which we are reimbursing in this project before the reimbursement is made to Theodore Square and We will ensure that we have all the waiver liens things of that nature So that is secure, but that is a risk. I need to point out to you the lack of a performance performance bond
 Based on all of it, when I look at the bottom line, however, I would recommend that we enter into this contract and move forward with it, but I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Okay. What discussion do we have from the council on this? Martin, do you want to address this on anything? Are you good or...
 I just always appreciate the opportunity to stand here and say thank you for your faith in both Theatre Squared and also the community that's been very supportive. The campaign's going very well. Construction also going very well. We had some really cool aerial footage that we just got a few days ago, which we're
 about to share out. But the basement is complete and over the next few weeks you're going to see vertical walls rising up from the theater volumes, which I think a lot of people are going to take note of. I might ask that you silence your phones, please. Go ahead. That's all. We are on budget and on schedule and really excited for what's next. Okay. Any questions for Martin? Mark?
 MARTIN, I JUST THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE UNDERSTAND THE DECISION OF NOT GOING WITH THE PERFORMANCE BOND ON THIS LARGER PROJECT, AND I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR YOUR REASON AND YOUR ASSURANCE AS WE MOVE FORWARD SO THAT WE HAVE A RECORD OF THAT.
 Yes, thank you. Because we certainly do want a complete building regardless. We feel the same way. Yes, I'm joined here, by the way, by our board treasurer, Todd Yeslow, who wanted to be here to reflect that this was a considered decision by the board. It was a recommendation by our board facilities chair at the time, Bob Kohler, who had been an owner's rep on a number of projects. Thank you.
 It is in public projects a very common, in fact, legally required process to ensure a performance and payment bond on the project. It is an option on a private project. In looking at Baldwin and Schell's reputation, their capitalization, which is extremely healthy,
 AND ALSO THE COMPLEXITY OF THE PROJECT AND SIZE OF IT RELATIVE TO OTHER PROJECTS THEY HAVE DONE. OUR BOARD DID NOT CONSIDER IT WORTH THE INVESTMENT OF WHAT WOULD HAVE BEEN AROUND $160,000 TO $180,000 IN PART PUBLIC FUNDS.
 That was a decision that they made and we relied on it and we are now six, almost seven months into the 19-month construction schedule, which obviously reduces the risk as well. But it's also a month-to-month risk. We pay monthly and confirm that the work has been completed so the actual exposure is reduced.
 I will also note that all the subcontractors have been required to be bonded, so the only work that does not have a performance bond on it is the Baldwin and Schell's portion on top of those bonds. Thank you.
 Did you want to add anything? No, I just want to reiterate that it was a decision that was carefully considered by the board, one that we think that we did our complete diligence on. We understood that we did have an option whether or not to bond this project or not. We realized that investing the money for a bond would be...
 And as the mayor said, sometimes you just have to take a risk in order to get things to move forward. And this was a minor risk that we thought we could assume in order to build this theater for the community. Okay. Any questions? Any more? All right. Thank you all. What public comment do we have? Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. Preliminarily, I'd like to
 Welcome, Mr. Smith, to the council. I was here at the last meeting and didn't realize what the crowd was all about because this whole thing blew up so quickly. And I just wanted to point out that I am disappointed that there are apparently only two aldermen voted that there be a special election. I'm a big believer in democracy and in having the taxpayers and the citizens involved in government.
 And here we had a quarter of the city that was going to be represented for three years, and yet the council decided that it would appoint Mr. Smith, and I have nothing against him. I know nothing about him. So I'm disappointed. I mean, we had special elections on December 8th of 2014, September 8th of 2015, and August 9th of 2016 that were all paid for by the taxpayers at awkward times, I might add.
 And yet when you've got a quarter of the city being represented for three years, they couldn't do a special election. The only thing I would say is that in this time of year that Jesus came into the world unexpectedly...
 We're discussing Theater Square right now. All right. Well, I'll get to Theater Square. Here we go then. Stay with me. Stay with Theater Square. All right. I was here during that March meeting. And I remember Mr. Tennant was the only alderman who asked that there be a business plan. And he seemed concerned about it, although I think in the end he voted for this. And I still want to know why is there no business plan?
 In the letter of February 15, 2017, Theatre Squared said that they had a commitment of $12.5 million. In fact, they had $3.5 million from the Walton Fund, which was for design. And that went away from Northwest Arkansas. That went to Charcoal Blue in London and Marvel Architects in New York, as I understand. Because again, we don't have a business plan, so the citizens can't understand really what's going on here.
 But then they needed, they had a $9 million one to two match. Now, as I understand that from all the documents, which I've read many times, that meant that the Waltons would give them $9 million if they could come up with another $18 million.
 That's the only way I can understand that. And they came to the city asking for $7 million of $9 million in public funding, and then they were going to get the rest. Well, I guess they would have wanted $9 million if they could have gotten that, but the mayor made a finding that the city couldn't afford $7 million. So the city ended up considering giving them $3.1 million.
 And that meant they'd still have to come up with another $14.9 million. Now, apparently that's being called pledges, but as a taxpayer, I'd like to know that the money is there. And in fact, then the city went ahead through the Advertising and Promotions Committee and has arranged for them to get another $3 million, $200,000 a year over 15 years. Is that correct? Yes.
 That wasn't mentioned in the memo from February 21 of 2017. So the city potentially now is into this for $6.1 million and we don't have a business plan. Why am I concerned? Well, there are a lot of red flags. I'm not going to speak for Mr. Tenant. Maybe he spotted some of these, maybe he didn't. But their literature speaks about 40,000 patrons a year.
 minus educational programs reaching 1,500 Fayetteville students at no cost. Then on page 17 of their brochure they claim through this lights up for access program to have another 18,000 students each year. Does that come out of the 40,000? They give subsidized tickets, they give free tickets, they give $5 tickets and $10 tickets. Again, we don't know
 between 2005 when they were founded and 2017 how many tickets how much revenue did they generate what are their costs we don't know any of this there's no business plan but here's the thing that really gets to me now mister Becker says and correctly he says the city is required by law to obtain a performance bond from the contractor or contract manager on building construction projects
 undertaken by the city. This derives from a 1932 federal law called the Miller Act. And now this... One more minute. I understand. In your memo, Mr. Mayor, and also in Theater Squared's memo, they said this will become a publicly owned building constructed on public lands. Your memo omitted the word constructed. So how then can we waive the requirement to protect public funds that are going into this
 and allowing them not to have a performance bond, because that in itself, in my experience, is a red flag. If they need to save $160,000 to $180,000 for whatever they want to spend it on and put the public funds more at risk, and I think in a way that's not even legal, then I would object to this and ask that the city consider this and we get some opinions on what's going forward here. This is a lot of money. OK. Thank you.
 Anyone else in the public like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay, who wants to be first? Adele. Well, Mayor, this is a very exciting time. I, you know, we've just done a lot of good things tonight, and this is certainly one of them. And I am delighted to support this expenditure, and I would like to...
 make the motion that we pass the resolution. Second. I'll second that. Now, does anyone else like to, any other comments from the council before we vote? John. I haven't studied it, Mayor, but I thought Peter raised some interesting points. I mean, exactly how much money are we expected to put up? Okay. Paul, you want to answer the finance question? City of Fayetteville, $3.1 million. Is that total?
 If you want to count the A&P Commission, they have committed to that also. So 6.2. That's 6.2.
 A $31.5 million project. The city is required if we do the construction. This is construction not by the city. We're not a part of the construction contract, and that is why we do not require a performance bond. Okay, so that's the answer to that particular question, but that's the investment of the city. This is going to be constructed like a leasehold improvement by them based on their lease.
 Point in time if they default on the lease etc or at the time of the lease Expires is the return over revert to the city and be a city asset So it'll be a city asset, but it's like a leasehold improvement built on city property. It's not being built by the city. I
 Mayor, I do want to make sure we're clear for the public that watches this that the council only authorizes the 3.1. The Advertising and Promotion Commission, a separate body, has to make the decision on the remaining 6.1 amount.
 Sarah. Sarah. I'd just like to add, from a construction perspective, the highest risk point in the construction process is in the excavation and foundation. That's where the greatest unknowns are in terms of, you know, you could hit rocks or...
 caverns, especially in that area, or groundwater. And building the foundation can sometimes be a challenge. But the building has already had the basement complete, so we're out of the danger zone. The next highest risk would be the final punch list, and those are generally cheap and easy items to go in and complete if there were...
 there were an issue at that area. I mean it's still obviously not optimal but from a cost perspective that's a very small percentage of the construction cost relative to the foundation and getting it up out of the ground. Yeah, I just extend what Councilmember Marsh explained all that is absolutely true and furthermore there are a lot of
 There are standard practices used by the private sector in development and construction to mitigate the risk when a performance bond is not utilized. In fact, in private sector construction, until you get to a very high level, performance bonds are almost not used at all because of the costs associated with them. Instead, there are detailed requirements for lien waivers to be implemented and released.
 at all stages of the process with every pay application. I'd be very surprised if that is not the practice that's being utilized here, probably as required by the lender, Arvis, who stands to lose $18 million in cash if Theater Squared did not have a business plan, which of course they do, and if they were unable to raise their private donations.
 So, you know, I trust the legal opinion of our staff who says that this is kosher. And furthermore, I trust the practices that have been evaluated by Theater Square, their board. I do think they've done their due diligence on this. And I think the Arvis Lending Committee did their due diligence on this as well. And when all parties in the process make the decision that bonds are an overcautious mechanism to mitigate the risk of a contractor failing 
 I tend to trust that. The whole point of the performance bond is if the contractor fails, you can bring in a bonding agent who more or less acts as a trustee for the project to get it back in order and to have enough money, basically an insurance payout, a bond payout to be able to hire a brand new contractor and give them the time to mobilize and get on board and gain an understanding of the project.
 Again, I think all those risks have been assessed and properly analyzed, so I'm comfortable with the decision that's recommended by staff. Okay. And again, I do want to point out that the A&P funding and the city funding are two separate things. They're the, it comes from sales tax dollars, but I don't control the A&P funding. They control that. We control this funding. So it's two separate funds. What else? I think we've got a couple of questions.
 Anything? Okay. Martin, I would like to ask you, there was an estimate on what the economic value would be to the city. The theater square. Okay.
 The construction is estimated to generate over... Am I answering the question correctly? Sales tax money that can be generated from theater squared. There's a certain period of time. The overall construction impact on the local economy is in excess of $50 million just from the 18-month construction period alone. Only a portion of that is sales tax, direct spending by the contractors, of course, and other sales tax inputs, but...
 it's significant. Then once the facility is completed, our organization's economic impact grows from around $3 million a year to over $5 million a year. So when we talk about driving the economic engine of the city, this is one of the ways we do it. Thank you. All right. Anything else? All right. Yes. We have a motion and a second. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number three, an ordinance awaits requirements for competitive bidding and approved contract between the City of Feville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas and the amount of $98,887 to provide public recreation services.
 for the senior citizens of federal for 2018 kit.
 Whereas providing quality recreation opportunities to the senior citizens of our community is of mutual interest to the City of Fayetteville and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas, which has provided these services to seniors in Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas for the past 45 years. And whereas the Area Agency on Aging is very qualified and uniquely able to provide the continuity of services vital to the efficient provision of recreational opportunities to the senior citizens of Fayetteville.
 NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAVORABLE ARKANSAS SECTION 1
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $98,887 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2018. Councilman.
 Connie Edmondson, Director of Federal Parks and Recreation. The Area Agency on Aging has had this agreement for the past, well, since 2014. We've had an agreement for 45 years with the Council on Aging, with the Northwest Arkansas Economic Development District.
 This year we are requesting approval of a contract of 98,887 for 2018, which would be to provide recreation programs for senior adults at the Walker Park Senior Adult Center and the Hillcrest Towers. They are also in our contract to be an emergency shelter in the case that our city needs to establish one there.
 The funding that we are requesting is the same as we had in 2017. And tonight we do have Jerry Mitchell, who's the director of the Area Agency on Aging, with us, and Angie Dunlap, who's the director of Senior Center Services. Do you have any questions for me to address? Okay. What questions do we have for Connie? Okay. All right. Okay.
 We will open it up for public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have a five-minute time. Unless a council member brings you back to ask you questions. And then, or if the council decides to give you more time by a motion and a second by the council and approval by the council, keep your comments addressed to me. Give us your name, your address. Okay.
 I don't engage anybody on the city council or anybody out in public. So who would like to be first? Everybody has to step up to the microphone. Good evening. My name is Tom Frazier. And a quick inquiry, is the five minute rule per person or in the aggregate? It's per person. Okay. Again, my name is Tom Frazier.
 And I'm here representing myself as a consumer of services, as a senior citizen. In addition, I am representing a fine gentleman that I've taken care of for quite a while who has dementia and has been a regular at the senior center for almost four months.
 He has dementia, but he still has common sense. And so he has some questions about the proceedings this evening. The first one is, in terms of the waiving of the bidding process, et cetera, et cetera, and having this outsourced to a, what is essentially a sole source provider.
 Is that, can that be bifurcated from the issue of the contract itself? Could that be two separate issues or is this in one resolution? You're waiving it and approving the contract. So is waiving the bidding process,
 Isn't that a separate issue than approving the contract? No, in fact, it probably would not be because you can only waive it during certain circumstances, and the circumstances must justify waiving it. And if you are not sure that the person that you want to contract with is the right entity
 and has certain qualifications that no other entity would have, and therefore that's why you could waive competitive bidding. If you don't know who you want to bid with, if they don't have special and unique qualifications, then the city council could not waive competitive bidding. We'd just have to open it up for bidding and seek bids. So, no, it's really...
 One and the same thing, if the city council determines that the Area Agency on Aging for Northwest Arkansas is a unique bidder because they've done this for so long and that they have resources that we don't have like other funds that they use for this center, then
 If they feel like that's not unique and is something that would justify waiting competitive bidding, then they couldn't pass this ordinance in either case. So it has to be tied to the person that they're seeking a contract with. Thank you. We submit that... Pardon my ignorance about the contract itself or its duration, etc., but we submit that...
 that perhaps if there is an opportunity to delay or table this resolution for the moment, that the
 City Council do exactly what the attorney says, and that is to look into whether or not this is a totally unique agency with the only credentials that are available to properly perform on this agreement if it's going to be outsourced. And secondly, to take a look at the performance
 on the contract over the last four or five years, and see where the senior center was five years ago, and see where it is today, and see whether or not that is attributable to the unique talents and resources of the AAA. And secondly, to maybe give 30 days to
 to do a mini-feasibility study, if you will, to determine whether or not the city of Fayetteville itself could take over the center and its management and its resources, etc., etc.,
 And finally, to craft a resolution in that regard that would either open it up to bidding or to have the city consider a budget item, etc., etc., that would really lend itself more readily to the mores and the morals and the culture of Fayetteville itself.
 And so those are our thoughts on the matter, and I appreciate the opportunity to address you folks. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. I will say, Mr. President, this is an ordinance. If the council decides not to pass it tonight, it would go another two weeks, and then possibly another two weeks after that. Can you hear me? I didn't quite hear you. Okay. Okay.
 The council, it's an ordinance, and the council can leave it on this reading and then go two weeks and have another reading and then go two weeks after that and have another reading because it is an ordinance. Whether they choose to do that or not will be the choice of the council.
 And Mayor, I just want to make a comment that this contract, the current contract, will expire at the end of December 31st, 2017. So a new contract or a new decision must be made so the center can remain open on the 2nd of January. Because if it goes, say, 30 days from today, then there won't be, we don't have a contract deal on it.
 Is the public aware of that, the end of the contract? I don't. Okay. This is a contract we renew annually in the last month of the year after the budget is approved. I'm not suggesting you're under any obligation to do that. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Come up, Aubrey.
 Orby Shepherd. Yes, I'm sorry it's such a short notice, but we didn't know until about two weeks ago or less that the best ever director of that senior center in Fayetteville since I've been, well, I'm 77 now, and I've been going there since I was 60 or so, whatever, the best one we've ever had. And she was let go in the last two weeks. We didn't know anything about it until it happened.
 They can justify that for themselves. But plenty of people at the Senior Center are very unhappy about that change, when it was made, the suddenness of it. And I truly believe that we could operate it better. I know the city gives a lot. The building belongs to the city. Much of the work that's done there to keep it in good shape
 is done by city workers. When the lights need changing, I believe it's always the city worker who has to climb way up there to the sky to do it. So it wouldn't be impossible, looking at the amounts of money that are donated by different groups to the city for various reasons, and the fact that we probably are going to have a great year anyway. And this amount of money we're giving
 you should go straight to the senior center, not to an agency in, what, 90 miles away? How far is it? Anyway, I would ask that you please delay it to the end of the month, and nothing's going to be bad if you do that and consider the options. And all of you, someday, we've got some pretty young people here nowadays, but
 Every one of you will someday probably want to go to a good senior center and close to home and this is one of the best. You've seen a lot of money earned or brought to the center by that director. If I understand it correctly, her salary would not be a big salary if she were working for the city. She's been paid $31,000, I understand, in the last few years.
 And she was raising money with the Georgias and different places, having events that were successful. And, you know, she knows everybody's name. She walks around and speaks to them. She knows people that come from out of town, and they're with you visiting, and she comes and meets them. So I don't know that there's another person ready to take that job for that much money and do it nearly as well.
 I'd like to see her back in her position there. So please consider at least holding it and giving us more time. Okay. Thank you all. Who else? I'm Peggy Treber. I live on Dixon Street. I remember watching the Senior Center be built when I was in my 40s and thinking maybe, gee, someday I'll get to go there. And I do!
 I object to the public recreation services because more of us are there for socialization, exercise, the exercise and the line dancing classes, and the meals program. So it's a whole, recreation doesn't begin to cut it. Yeah, bingo's a big deal, and the fire department will be there tomorrow calling the numbers, but it's so much more than that.
 We met, some of us met with Lionel last week and Don and Connie, and we learned that there's not time for the city to take over running the senior center come January 1st. It sounds like a great idea. I think a lot of us were very upset over Kayla's being fired.
 And we want to let the Area Agency on Aging know that we're going to be watching and expecting a director of the same caliber as her, which is going to be hard when you only pay $31,000. But we're going to be watching, and if it's possible for the agency, and I don't know what...
 what role you might play in that. In them doing as the Walton Arts Center has recently done, bringing in the serious candidates and letting them meet with some of the people that they would be working with, some of the volunteers and staff, so that it's not just made by the people in Harrison, the decision's not just made by the people in Harrison. That would be something that we all have discussed earlier and discussed.
 They're just saying so they don't have to come up here and stand and say, yes, we'd like to be part of it. We'd like to be part of it. And Lionel told us to watch and report to the city because that's our first avenue. But I guess that's all I had to say. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Yeah, sure. I'm standing, I guess. I'm the last one. I'm not the last one standing, but I'm Jeremy Hess. Excuse me.
 I know that you can't make personnel decisions about who the next director is, and as upset as some of us might be about the firing of this one, I'm not sure that's the main issue here. I would ask the city. Mr. Petty said something earlier about when we passed the bonds for the Theater Squared about how this would affect people.
 generations to come. How our grandchildren would live in a different fable because this building was being done. I would submit that it's a very similar situation with the senior center. The population gets older.
 Some of you guys might not recognize that, but some of us do. And we'll all be there, hopefully, at one point in time. So the management and maintenance of the senior center is not insignificant.
 I would hope that at some point in the future the city might develop a program where they could at least look into the possibility of taking it over. I know that you don't want to manage the senior center, I know you don't want to have to fundraise, but I think it is that important. Having said that, I know that you're talking about approving a contract, is that correct,
 So do you have any leverage in terms of the contract? For instance, could you say we can approve the contract subject to our approving whoever the next director is going to be? Because I think part of the problem is there is a...
 There can be a significant deterioration between directorships, if you will. Kayla was excellent. I'm not here to argue her merits. The previous people were not nearly as good. And during that time, the center fell into a little bit of deterioration in terms of the money that they were...
 able to fundraise in terms of the programs that they were able to create in terms of how they were taking care of the senior citizens. So I think it's crucial that the director be top-notch and that they have a familiarity with Fayetteville and the institutions that the senior center can serve. So I don't know if that's within the wherewithal of the contract to make that sort of stipulation. If it is, I would hope at least that you would consider it.
 Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sarah. Mayor, I would like to see us hold this on this reading. I took the, I had the opportunity to meet with the former director, Kayla, and I
 You know, she raised some interesting issues, some of which have been addressed to my satisfaction and some of which have not, that I would like to look into further. And while I recognize we don't have time to devise a new plan before the new year, I do think that it's something we should consider. And I just did want to take a moment to acknowledge on the record how many people
 letters and emails and messages of support I received on behalf of Kayla Wilson. And as an alderman who we host our ward meetings down at the Senior Center, I always found that facility to be very well run by her and just the general level of the programming and the staff there to be excellent. So I just want to say thank you to Kayla for her years of service and I've always been quite ashamed at the low level of pay for that position.
 She worked very hard. She was pretty much on call 24 hours a day because they only had a part-time maintenance staff worker. So when a senior citizen had a difficult situation in the bathroom, she was there to clean it up. When the alarm went off in the middle of the night, she was there to respond. And to expect that level of service for someone making $31,000 a year is shameful, and I think we need to do better for our seniors and the people that care for them. All right. John?
 Well, for someone who doesn't manage to schedule all that efficiently, let me say I agree with Council Member Marsh. I think we should hold it here. I'm not sure why we have someone in Harrison making decisions for our people here in Fayetteville. I like the idea of local control. I realize it would be difficult for us to come in and take over a program in this short notice, and that's probably not likely to happen. But...
 Our last speaker asked, well, maybe could we change the contract a little bit? That would be for Mr. Williams to decide, but my contract law education tells me you can always make it for six months, not a whole 12 months, or you can make it for one quarter, three months.
 I don't know if the other party would be willing to do that, but it's something we certainly should look at and talk about. So I'd like to hold it right here, and let's have a broader discussion of this. Sure, and I don't mind holding it for two weeks, but we're going to start to get into a crunch before the end of the year, and the last thing I want is that nobody run in that senior center by the first of the year, okay? I mean, I'm good with holding it as long as we can.
 If you want to hold it longer, I can call the special city council meeting if I need to before the end of the year, unless I have that skill set. Mr. Mayor, before you go on to the next, Connie, did you say that Mr. Mitchell is here? Would you like to address some of the items that have come up and also about contractual terms, because it obviously takes two parties to agree to terms. Very true. Very good point.
 I tried to make, well thank you. I'm Jerry Mitchell. I'm the executive director for the Area Agency on Aging. We administer the senior program in nine counties. We were set up quite a while ago, 35 plus years ago by Congress and it was stipulated that we be a nonprofit organization and we would advocate and provide services to seniors
 Our senior center program has almost always been running through contracts with either a cap agency or the economic development agency. Four years ago, there were some issues with the economic development agency. Over in Harrison, we took the contract back and 
 to address that at that time. Kayla Wilson was the senior center director at Harrison and we went ahead and retained almost all of the employees that were former workers of the economic development district. The problem did not rest with the employees that were out in the senior center so much. We, again, we would like to contract a
 It's our preference to have a local contractor if we could have one to manage the senior center. That's the preference. Our goal is not to continue to do direct services. We kept it for three years before we put out an RFP so that we could get things straightened up.
 There were some issues that had to be addressed. We wanted more transparency. We wanted more following policies and procedures, and we've tried to implement those things throughout the six counties that we took back. As far as personnel policies, we can't comment on those and the reasons for terminations and whatever until those all get settled.
 because someone leaves that's not exactly the end of the road when it comes to personnel issues
 As far as the contract decision, if that needs to be looked at more, I'm certainly happy to meet and visit with the city if they have some issues there. We've had an excellent working relationship with the city. I think if you'll go back in your records, I think we put over $200,000 into it or something like that into getting the senior center started here out of the Area Agency on Aging.
 We watched it come out of the ground and have gone through all that. At that time, the Council on Aging was our contractor that was working with it.
 So we're open to this. We want to have the best senior center in Fayetteville that we can have. The citizens here deserve it. We'd like for it to be that way. And so, you know, we're very open to it, Mayor. So that's where we are. I agree with the salary. It's horrible. A lot of our salaries are. Our people don't work for the money.
 If you're in the nonprofit business taking care of elderly, it doesn't pay that well. So it's just that way. I feel like our people are very dedicated, and if they're not, we try to address that issue. So with that, any other things that may not have been said here, I'll try to address them for you. Mr. Mayor, could I ask you a couple questions? Sure.
 there was some desire that the contract would give the city at least some input on the next director that would be selected here. Would you be open to having some input by the city on that decision? Sure. I will discuss that with you. We have
 Again, make sure of qualifications and background checks and all that kind of stuff. But I could get with our staff and we could talk about if there needs to be someone from the city council or if Parks and Recreation, if whoever would like to sit in on that interview process. We have not interviewed anyone yet. We were waiting. I think we may have six or eight applications. Some of those have previous experience. I've been told by our HR people.
 But we would let someone come in and set in on it, sure. And again, we're not foreign to Fayetteville or to Washington County. Our agency employs probably 75 to 100 people here in Washington County at any one time. Our regional office is in Harrison because it sits in the middle of the region.
 Our office for the Area Agency on Aging is down on Waterfront, and that's where our staff that does case management in home services is. So, again, we're in all nine counties. We've got about any one time we have 650, 700 people working for us. So.
 We are out there trying to, nobody knows about us until you need us. I'm glad to hear the good things said about Mrs. Wilson and our staff here that do that. Let me just say for y'all's benefit. Our senior center directors often times as our care coordinators, case managers, RNs,
 They become part of that caregiving network, part of that caregiving family. And it is tragic when we have to terminate one or they quit and move on to another position. So I do feel for these people. And there's never a good time to lose an employee the way we look at it. Well, I want to say then I will probably attempt a slight modification to the contract to provide some input from the city, probably city staff.
 over the selection of the executive director. Obviously, we realize you run your own organization, but for the executive director's position, I think the city might want to have a little bit of input on that. Senior senate director. I'm the executive director. No, I'm sorry. The senior senate director. No, I won't have input on your job.
 There are a lot of people who like to have input on my position. So anyway, but sure, we want to have a partnership here. And if that's what it takes, you know, that's it. Our board's local. Washington County has two members on our area agency on aging, former Judge Jerry Hunton and John Gibson. John?
 on the Aging Foundation, which is a separate entity, and I understand that's come up in some conversations people have had with me. It is separate, but Joyce Bunch...
 and let's see, Steve Clark represent Washington County on that foundation, Louis Epley and Fred Vorsinger are former members on it. So y'all are very well represented on those. And if you know those guys, they're not yes people. I mean, you know, they're very much into it. Am I five minutes in? Yes.
 Okay. I think Council Member Marsh has some questions. Yes, Mr. Mitchell. In speaking with the former director, she expressed that she was directed by
 that your agency, that she was not allowed to apply for grants to pursue continuing education for her and her staff. Can you explain that please? I'm not, I'm sorry, I'm not aware of that specific thing, but we do require all of our senior center directors to come in and get authority from the, from Angie Dunlap and myself before they submit a grant. And the reason for that is we've had, we've had a lot of, we've had a lot of, we've had
 We have had senior center directors that have submitted grants that they could not possibly do. So we want to make sure before they obligate the senior center or themselves that it's something that fits in that they can do. So I don't know about the continuing education. And I will look into it.
 Please do so and report to the council. Additionally, she expressed that there was an inordinately long amount of time to fulfill staffing requests, in particular with Meals on Wheels drivers. How long between the time that those positions were vacated and they were filled? What is the average length of time? One minute.
 I don't know that either. I would have to look into it. You're asking for a Meals on Wheels driver. Yes, in particular, a Meals on Wheels driver. But she said every time she would make a staff request, it would take a long time to fill that request, which put her in a very difficult position of covering that missing staff member. Yeah. I do know before a staffing position, if it's a new position, it has to be verified that there's budget for that.
 If it's an old position, oftentimes it's filled back or it's advertised right after it's terminated. Okay. Well, I would like to know if you could report back to the council. Sure. And I think Angie is making notes back there so we can get this information back to you. Thank you. And then another concern that I've heard from the community is that there are, you know,
 there was not an overall atmosphere of inclusiveness for our LGBTQ senior citizens. Can you talk about what the AAA's policy is on inclusiveness towards LGBTQ citizens? Our policy is that we don't discriminate. And LGBT, as far as I'm concerned, is as welcome in any program we've got as anyone else is. It doesn't and should not matter.
 Thank you for clarifying that. And if there's issues that that's happening or someone's doing it, I would like it reported so that we can follow up on it. And thank you. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Mitchell? All right. Thank you. I assume you all want to leave it here for two weeks. Okay. All right. Mayor, do you want to make a couple of...
 But the budget that...
 Area Agency on Aging shared with us specifically as it relates to the Fayetteville Center. I know that you had emails where accusations were made that money was put in the foundation and not necessarily going to the program or to the center itself when designated. We verified that that does not happen, that it actually does go into a foundation, but gets designated and spent in the programs that it is targeted for. If you'll look at this also, it outlines on page...
 Fundraising that is specific. You'll see our amount on the 9887 is the portion that we contribute. Above that, the $194,000 that the agency brings to the table on their own that if we were not contracting with them would actually be utilized within the entire county area and would not go to our center simply if the city took that over.
 And on the very last page, the actual cost of running this, which is over $600,000. And while this is an extremely important project,
 area of services, I do want to remind the council that if we had an extra $600,000 annually, the prioritization we've had is the implementation of our police and fire pay before we would go when we have these additional resources for contracting. So we also reminded the council
 these wonderful seniors that we met with, that the person that they were very pleased with was hired by the Area Agency on Aging and supported for the time period. The turnover we saw in the director's position was actually prior to the period that they took this over where we contracted directly. They also, as you heard, go out to bed and in the beginning
 provided Mayor Jordan and Connie and myself that if we wanted to take it over, we could, but we simply, in terms of the revenue priorities, haven't had the time to really analyze it, and certainly at a $600,000 expenditure year over year in perpetuity, we haven't.
 to our budget. So I don't want you to see the detail because there's a lot of money that is raised. This Senior Center role is not only a caregiver and a program manager and a facilities manager, but it is a sales and fundraising individual and if you remember, I believe Ray Boudreaux was one of the city's appointments and
 on the Economic Development Board when there was over a half a million dollars of deficit in Meals on Wheels funding, an area that had to be handled because there wasn't really strong management. That's something that the Area Agency on Aging got corrected and helped to fix. And so from a financial fiduciary perspective, I think we should applaud them on that issue.
 effort. What we decided to do in terms of internally is a different decision, but I don't want there to be any implication that they haven't managed well. They're managing within the budget they were given without the deficits that had to be made up in prior
 Mayor, if I could just add a little bit to that. We took the program back four years ago. We did not get any. There was no bank account came with the Fayetteville Senior Center. We had to start from scratch. We had to put it in and go up.
 It is on solid ground right now. The program relies heavily on volunteers. There is some money in the foundation that people has bequested to the senior center. It can only be used for that purpose. And again, we feel like it's on solid footing right now. We want it to stay there. That's part of the program. So...
 I will just end also that I think that we established a good communication network between the seniors that if they, we learned about a prior director that wouldn't leave their office and didn't want to help and lots of things that I think they are very concerned doesn't happen in this change. And we've tried to create a dialogue both in terms of Connie with Dr.
 Angie and Jerry, myself and the mayor, if we were to get in those situations to make sure that they come to the city so we can facilitate that because we're the holder of the contract and we have the building. And so there is a way for it to be managed so that we get the level of quality of service that I think everyone needs.
 wants. At least that's what we've heard in the last directive. They did come in and meet with me. I can certainly say we had a definite line of communication. I thought it was a very good meeting and they brought out some really good points and we're certainly going to work on those.
 I want everybody to know that. We want the best, like I said earlier, we want the best senior center, any senior center in the region and state. We'll get there. I promise you that. I know that there was a lot of talk about us taking it over and $631,000 after we just passed the budget. I just did not really know how we were going to do that. Now we've got future budgets coming up. And so I think anything is...
 Everything's on the table, but I do appreciate the seniors coming in. I do appreciate you and Angie meeting with the students. We met with everybody in the last, what, three or four days? Yeah, a couple days. So it's good. It's good. So I guess we'll leave this here. Yeah, and I just want to reiterate that we do need a contract approved prior to December 31st. Because we do not want to see the senior not have anybody. Yeah.
 operating it or I will have that direct communication line again probably with the seniors and I definitely would want to be sure it stays open and is run well okay now I'll see most of you tomorrow anyway I do plan on playing bingo all right moving along to number four
 An ordinance waived the requirements for competitive bidding and approved contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2018. Whereas providing quality recreational opportunities to the youth and citizens of our community is of mutual interest to the City of Fayetteville and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated,
 And whereas Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated and the City of Fayetteville have had a close working relationship for many years. And this relationship allows for continuity of services vital to the efficient provision of recreational opportunities. And whereas were it not for the services offered by the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated, the City of Fayetteville would be required to assume the duty of providing staff, programming, promotion and development for youth recreation services. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2018.
 Okay, Connie. Connie Edmonston again. So we are requesting this is a contract that the city and the Fayetteville Youth Center or known today as the Fayetteville Boys and Girls Club has had for the last 50 years. And it's for $225,000. This is the same amount as what we approved in 2016 budget.
 They are used as an emergency shelter and I tell you, Eric and his staff do a fantastic job in providing their place when things are bad and we need to house people to get them out of the weather. Each year Eric and I look, we do have a working agreement because we do not want to duplicate services.
 And so we decide who's going to run which programs or if we're both going to have the same programs.
 The Boys and Girls Club basically operates the indoor facilities with the exception of football, youth football, and their summer camps, whereas we do outdoor recreation programs, including our summer camps too. But we both offer swimming lessons. We help facilitate staff back and forth. And Eric did work for the City of Fayetteville at one time.
 We have a great working relationship with them and have for years. So I'd like you to consider this contract. Do you have any questions you would like to direct to me? Okay. Questions for comment on this? All right. Any public comment on this? Yes. Hi, my name is Will Dockery again. I guess it's always been Will Dockery. Okay.
 Now and forever. Still. Still is, yes. As you'll get to know me, you know I'm all about recreation, playing outside, and
 I ask you to adopt this ordinance. The City Parks and Recs has a great partnership with the Boys and Girls Club. I'm a full-paying member there and my family uses it almost daily so I get to see the work that they do firsthand and they do some really excellent work with the area children, many of whom are not so fortunate in their recreation choices or their mobility and they greatly help an underserved population. So I ask you to approve that. Thank you. Thank you, Will. Anybody else? Okay, we'll bring back to the council.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2018. And I see we have the representative here. Are you going to talk to us, Eric? ERIC SCHMIDT Good evening. I just had a couple comments.
 As Connie mentioned, we've had this contract for services for a long time. It benefits the community. We have tried our hardest to be a good partner to the city.
 In addition to the emergency shelter that she mentioned in the last couple of years, we have added to our contract for services, we provide transportation to the Vaughn Richardson Center. And in addition to that, the city has increased their special events. For example, the Square to Square, and we have also provided transportation. We have a bus and a half.
 that helps transport bicycles and or participants in those areas. So in addition to the three or four pages of things that we do, we try to be a good partner and add things as we go through the years. I thank you on behalf of our board, the families, and the youth that use us. Thanks. That would be a fantastic job. Okay. Sarah. Thank you.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I'll second that. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Keddie? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Mutch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center, Inc. in the amount of $225,000, provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2018. And finally, Thomas from the Council. Yes, Bill. I just want to say thank you to Eric. It's wonderful to have a great employee like you. Thank you so much.
 Yes. Yeah, and I want to add to that, just please tell your staff, we really, really appreciate what they do. They do a great job.
 I'll be there most of Saturday watching exciting fourth grade girls basketball. And those eight to six games are riveting. But I will tell you that I've taken a lot of people there that are not from here. And they're just amazed at what a nice facility it is and how clean it is and how safe it is. And for the age of that facility, it's not brand new, but it looks almost brand new in most cases. So thank you for everything you do. I really appreciate it.
 Okay. If there's not any other comments, Senator, would you please call the roll? Eddie. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Number five, a resolution to accept and adopt the 2017 Water Master Plan update. Tim, I believe you have this. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Magood Williams and Yates was selected in a formal engineering selection committee to provide a water master plan update to the city. The water master plan update details the immediate and long-term recommendations for improvements to the city's water distribution system to meet the growing population demands for the next 20 years. It serves as a planning tool for our future capital improvement program projects.
 Additionally, the Arkansas Department of Health's regulations include a requirement for long-range planning and request five-year updates, and that's what this is. The proposed resolution will accept and adopt the completed Water Master Plan. The plan was presented to the Water and Sewer and Salt Waste Committee for review on September 12, October 10, and on November 14, unanimously voted in favor to forward to the Council a recommendation for approval.
 Do you have a representative from Goodwill and Yates here in the audience if you'd like to ask any questions? If you have any questions, I'm going to march them through your committee. No, we've had this for quite some time because it's so comprehensive. Yeah. And it is a 20-year master plan with short-range immediate needs as well as long-range capital planning. And I think that the committee has worked very hard to be sure that we 
 have adequately planned for the future with no surprises. And this is not an easy task with such a, you know, it's not just Fayetteville, but it's also the other areas that we service. And when you're looking at the areas east of Fayetteville towards Goshen, there was a lot of needs that I was unaware of until we got this plan that we're going to have to be looking at. And then, of course, Fayetteville itself, we do have a lot of aging,
 infrastructure that we've got to have some immediate care for. Okay, John? You know, I jokingly come in and shake Tim's hand and say, I walked into my bathroom this morning, turned on the spigot, and guess what happened? And he knows now, water came out. We take it for granted so much, but without plans like this, I can see future growth areas of Fayetteville not being able to laugh at that joke because they may not have any water
 Infrastructure is very important to our city, to our growth, and I strongly support it. Thank you. Any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sir, may we approve the resolution? Mark. I second that. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Aye.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number six, a resolution to approve a 15-year contract with the city of Greenland to accept and process their wastewater and to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign this contract.
 Thank you, Mayor. The City of Fayetteville has operated and maintained the wastewater collection system in Greenland since the system was established in the mid-1970s. The current wastewater services agreement expires on December 31st of this year. In the past, Greenland has expressed a willingness for Fayetteville to own the system in addition to operating and maintaining it.
 To make that transition, the system needed to be restored by refurbishing a sewerage pump station before the city would consider accepting the system. While the plan was being developed, the city of Fayetteville renewed the sewer service agreements in two-year increments.
 Greenland is currently making improvements on their sewer collection system and have started work on the design of the upgrades. Given that, the City of Greenland has made the decision to retain ownership of their sewer collection system and is requesting to extend the sewer service contract for a period of 15 years to reflect the original contract. We do have a representative from the City of Greenland if you'd like to ask questions. Okay. I'll have any questions. I don't want to order to the right.
 Yes. And as you mentioned, this is our longest standing contract, I believe, with the municipality outside of the city. No, sir. They usually all typically go for a length of 10 to 15 years. But I mean our relationship with Greenland. Certainly. Right. Do we have any questions? Carol? Okay. Any public comments on it? No.
 And I bring it back to the council. DAVID BURRAGE. I see we've got the engineer from Greenland here. Are you going to tell us anything, Carol? I'd like to thank the mayor, his staff, and the city council. The last two items are the epitome of good government, planning for the future, which has served us well over time, and long-term relationships with our fellow cities. I'm proud to be a member of the government here with your all's actions.
 Sarah? I move we approve the resolution. Mark? I second the motion. Okay. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, please call the roll. Teddy? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Fetch? Yes. LeChier? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon?
 Resolution authorizes professional engineering services agreement with Algier Martin and Associates Incorporated to RFQ 17-01 in an amount not to exceed $480,049 for the engineering design and engineering observation and management services associated with electrical rehabilitation and improvements at the Paul R. Nolan Wastewater Treatment Plant to approve a project contingency in the amount of $48,004.90 and to approve a budget adjustment. Thank you, Mayor.
 The aging electrical equipment and changes in the electrical code necessitated a study of the electrical equipment at the Nolan wastewater plant, the Westside plant, and two of its major lift stations. The Nolan wastewater plant was the one that seems to need the most work. The proposed contract is for engineering design and observation management services. And this project includes the replacement of various electrical systems from 12-volt...
 lines, gear, and equipment to 480 volt lines, gear, equipment, breakers, and transformers. Algier Martin and Associates Incorporated was selected for this task in a formal engineering selection on July 26th. Contracts scoped and the not-to-exceed costs were negotiated by City Utilities. This project was presented to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on the 14th of November and was voted unanimously to be reported to the City.
 Council for approval. Do you have a representative of Alapier Martin Associates? If you have any questions. Okay. Do we have any questions from the council? Nobody good? All right. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we approve the resolution. Mark. I second that. Motion is second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council?
 Mark, do you have a final comment? No. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Kennett. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Smith. Yes. Bray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Number eight.
 a resolution to approve amendment number nine to the agreement for operations maintenance and management services between the city of federal arkansas and ch2m hill engineers incorporated in the amount of seven million nine hundred and thirty eight thousand eight hundred and thirty three dollars
 for services in 2018. Tim. Thank you, Mayor. This contract before you is a similar version to the original contract that was approved in 1987 and again in 2010 for wastewater treatment services. The scope of services provided include operation and maintain of the Nolan Wastewater Treatment Plant, the Westside Wastewater Treatment Plant, and the Bioless Lodge Management Site.
 to operate and maintain 42 wastewater lift stations, administer the city's discharge, air, stormwater, and other permits, to manage the city's biosolids reuse program, to manage the city's industrial pretreatment program, and to support the SCADA system, the network that monitors and allows us to control the drinking water pumping stations and the wastewater facilities operations. And also, they are to pursue operation economies, efficiencies, and permit compliance.
 The current contract began in 2010 with a five-year contract and two subsequent five-year extensions, subject to city review and approval. So this current contract has been through the first five-year term, and this contract amendment number nine is the fourth year of its second five-year contract. Staff recommends approval of the contract in CH2M Hill, and it was presented to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on November 14th, and was voted unanimously to report to the City Council with a recommendation for approval.
 Mayor, I just want to add to that one. I want to thank Tim and his management team. Greg, Tim, Mayo, Ewan, and the CH2M team.
 I want you to think back over time how many times you've thought of a 30-year contract relationship, uninterrupted, that went to competitive bid multiple times and had to compete on a national bidding basis and the provider was still selected and still continues to provide excellent service.
 helps us in major items like minerals permitting on the White River, phosphorus issues on the Arkansas and Oklahoma line, um,
 creative technologies like biosolids and ozonation and things that keep us on the leading edge of water quality and wastewater. And I think something that they all should be proud of, Tim and his team with CH, that our utility has been named the utility of the future for the twice.
 And that's a national award that's incredible. And I think it says something about the accomplishments for our rate payers and our excellent staff and team. So I'll tell you, I love having a contract that's, this is the single largest contract for the city with the least amount of headaches. So anyone who succeeds me and was my predecessor, if they don't tout this one, I don't know what contract they would. And I hope you'll renew it.
 Yes, there's a reason they've had a 30-year contract for the city. It's an excellent job to represent us on so many levels. They just do a great job. So do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sir? I move we approve the resolution. Mark? I second that motion. We have a motion to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number nine, a resolution authorizes the sale of a small parcel of land south of Georgia's majestic land and west of the railroad tracks.
 Justin, I believe this is... Yes, I was contacted by the owner of Georgia's Majestic Lounge who was interested in a very, very small piece of land that is behind that building around the railroad track area there behind Georgia's. I know that city staff was nice enough to go meet with Mr. Crown, and he also wrote us a letter just of some general interest in the...
 in the land itself for possible future uses. It's not really a piece of land that I saw had much value to the city or use for the city, but I know city staff did their due diligence in it, so I appreciate their opinion on this as well. Okay. Okay.
 Peter, you want to weigh in on this? Mayor and Council, we did send out a staff recommendation late on this this afternoon to you all, and if you don't have an email copy of it, I do have some paper copies right here if anyone would like a copy handed out, passed around of that. I'll refer you to the map in the, on the third page that shows the triangular parcel.
 as Alderman Tennant mentioned, a 0.8 acre parcel. Our staff does recommend that the city retain the southern portion on your map, which is shown in red of that parcel. There is a sidewalk currently that crosses that parcel and a storm sewer line and a storm sewer inlet.
 Neither one of those two pieces of infrastructure are in utility easements, which utilities such as these typically would be in easements, but since the city owns that property, they are not under easement currently. I was able to meet with Brian Crown earlier this afternoon, the owner of George's Majestic Lounge, and he indicated that he did not have an objection to the city retaining that southern portion and making available that northern portion that is in green on your map to him
 So retaining that southern portion would also grant future access to the city as part of the Wong Family Foundation Design Excellence Grant that you all accepted earlier this evening. We don't exactly know what the design will look like for that grant, but this retaining of this southern parcel would allow potential access into the West Avenue parking lot area from the powerhouse alley. And so we would recommend retaining at least that southern portion.
 I'm glad to answer any questions on that recommendation. COMMISSIONER McWILLIAMS. Okay. Quick question. COMMISSIONER McWILLIAMS. I don't know if this is for you, Peter, or for Kit. Once we pass this resolution to authorize the sale, then the actual process, there's a process that kicks in at that point to sell any publicly owned land, correct? MR. Yes. One thing that we would have to do, if you read the current resolution, I think it's
 At that point, I didn't realize all the fact about the sidewalk and the drainage. I said, whereas a small parcel is isolated from other city property by railroad traction and is thus, quote, no longer needed for corporate purposes, unquote, which is something we must find in order to sell property under state law,
 Obviously, that would not apply to the sidewalk and the drainage pipe that's there. And so I think what the city has done by recommending cutting off that lower triangle, we could, if the City Council believes that it's proper, you could, in fact, determine that the other upper portion, that little square, is not needed for corporate purposes.
 You don't have to decide that. I mean, it could be that somebody would think that that would still be a good thing for us to retain because of this excellence award, and it's going to be right across the street from that. But I think at least you could make that determination there. And at that point in time, if you do, for the upper class,
 almost square, then we could go forward to that point and do the notification and the other things that are required in order to later on agree to a sale.
 So just because we vote on this tonight doesn't mean the land is a done deal. And when I went and looked at it, I mean, you're talking .038 acres. It's a tiny piece right there, especially when you take the 
 The part out that the city totally understandable that we would want that part by the way, especially with the possible future uses So anyway, I just think it's it's a win-win for us to be able to sell a little bit of that land To really the only landowner that might possibly ever have used for it and still keep the part that we may use for later So I appreciate that kit. I
 okay i would i would if we're if you're wanting to go forward with that i would change uh section one to read that the city council city of fable arcs i hear by determines that the 0.038 acre parcel described on exhibit a substituting this new map as exhibit a is no longer needed for corporate purposes and is valued less than twenty thousand dollars and should be sold at fair market value to georgia's majestic lounge
 which adjoins the property. So the only thing I would add in there is specifically referring to .038 acre so that we know exactly what we're talking about. So we would keep the northern end, which is about 1,600 square feet. I mean, we would sell the northern end, which is about 1,600 square feet, and keep the southern end. That would be an amendment we would have to put in. Yes, you would just actually add the .038 acre right before parcel.
 So it's crystal clear that that's what's being considered to be so. So before we talk about it, we need to talk about the resolution to change it to that, correct? Yeah, yeah, yeah. When it's time, Mayor, I'll make a resolution to change it to that. Okay. You make a motion to amend to add the .038, the northern section? Correct, yes. I make that motion. Okay. Mark? I second that. All right. What discussion do we have on the amendment?
 Do we have any public comment on the amendment? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. All right. Do we have any other discussion on it? Okay. We have a motion and a second. So Senator, would you please call the roll on the amendment? Teddy? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Fletcher? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Now we have the amendment as a whole. What discussion do we have on that?
 Thank you, Mayor. There's a question for the city attorney. If this resolution is passed, does this property still need to go to competitive bidding? It could go to competitive bidding, especially if the mayor determined that it might be worth more than $20,000. But even without that, it's not...
 You're not prohibited from doing competitive bidding. So you can put it out from competitive bidding even though if it's not valued, reasonably valued at over $20,000, it does not have to be competitively bid. If it's valued at more than $20,000, it is required to go to competitive bidding?
 So, I'm not convinced that the property is worth less than $20,000 based on comparables from other land sales in proximity to the area. There is a parcel that's not much bigger than twice the size, maybe two and a half times the size that sold for $90,000 just six or seven months ago.
 So on a pure valuation basis, I'm not sure we're there under $20,000 if this were to go out to market, especially considering some of the decisions we've made in terms of parkland tonight. It may not look like it, but that is enough land to construct a single-family dwelling or even a duplex.
 or more than that if people are willing to forego parking. And I wouldn't be surprised with these kinds of announcements that we've made tonight if this went out to bid if somebody didn't really want to have a home there or an investment property or something else. So I'm okay with selling it. I don't think there is really a corporate purpose anymore.
 Maybe somebody could argue that with the design excellence grant that there might be a use for this. I think it's a remnant space. I think it's a holdover space. There's probably not really a corporate use for it.
 very reluctant to support this with the determination that this is valued at less than $20,000 because I don't think we're equipped to make that determination. I think if it went out for bid, it might very well be worth more than that. So if we could memorialize somehow that this is going to go out to bid, I'm ready to support it. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LORENZO- I would say that one thing you need to do is amend Section 1 to remove its value to less than $20,000.
 And you could add, if you wanted to, and should be sold after competitive bidding for fair market value. So you could make that change, or you could make that motion to amend this resolution and see what happens. Yeah. Let me think about that for a second. Okay. Sir. I am...
 in support of selling the property at some point. But I just wonder how the design excellence program and the future plans for the area could impact the value of this parcel. Because we are about to put this tremendous new arts district here and this parcel's worth a lot less sitting next to a big parking lot than it is in this square in the middle of an arts district. So I question the timing of selling this parcel.
 Okay. What other comments do we have? Well, on the question of timing, the timing to me is a longstanding business that's the only business that borders this land looks at it as a strategic piece of their possible future usage. So they're just curious if we can sell it.
 you know timing wise i don't know what the the time or i i can't tell the future i wish i could but um any piece of land in town when somebody wants it uh that's when i consider it to be the timing to talk about it so uh i'm not
 Either way on this, I'm not going to necessarily lose any sleep, but I know that a very long-standing business, which is in the middle of the entertainment district and has been proven to be a fantastic historic place in our city for decades, would like to possibly look into buying it. Yeah.
 understand we may have some things to do around that area. And I think city staff did a really good job looking into it and immediately noticing that part of that area does need to be kept with the storm drain and the sidewalks and things like that for possible usage. So I think this kind of strikes a balance between somebody that is actively wanting it and keeping the land that we need out of that area because it depends.
 I guess other people could want it to build for it and we'll find out. But I would like for us to move forward in at least finding out what we can sell a piece of land for that I don't think has much value other than to this particular company at this time. Okay. So what do you all want to do here? Matthew. Yeah, I'll make a motion to strike.
 everything from is valued less than $20,000 to the rest of the sentence and to replace it with and should be sold for fair market value in a competitive bidding process. John? Second that motion, Mayor. Okay. So basically we're going to strike the sentence that talks about being
 worth less than $20,000, but we're willing to sell it, basically, but we want to put it out for bid. Yes, the section would now read that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, actually hereby determines that the .38 acre parcel described on Exhibit A is no longer needed for corporate purposes and should be sold at fair market value by competitive bidding. Yeah, good. All right. All right, well, let's talk about the amendment first. Is there...
 Any public comment on the amendment? Okay. Go right back to the council. Do we have a motion and a second? Yeah. Do we have a second on the motion? John's seconded it. I know. I'm not seeing it on my screen, but okay. You seconded it, right, John? I'm not ready yet. Oh, okay. Got you. Got you. All right. We have a motion and a second to...
 amend that we strike, read that again, Kent, would you please? That the council hereby determines that the .38 acre parcel described in Exhibit A is no longer needed for corporate purposes and should be sold at fair market value by competitive bidding. And that's the amendment. Everybody good? All right. We have a motion and a second. Any final discussion on it?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll on the amendment? Ready? Yes. Tenant? Yes. Munch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Wright? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, now we have the resolution as a whole. And as Councilmember Tenant said, in relation to your concerns, Councilmember Marsh, I'm
 is that even though this would be passed, it doesn't mean anything's been sold. It would still come back to the city council. You could determine this is not the time to sell it, we didn't get enough money, or we got enough money and we're going to sell it. So this only starts the process going. Yep, you may not want to sell it at all. You might say you want to wait until whatever, but...
 I think a good point's been made on both sides. Matthew? Yeah, I just wanted to emphasize that last point and jump on that bandwagon. I share some of the timing concerns, but I'm eager to see what the interest in the property is. Okay, good. Anything else? Do we have a motion and a second to pass? Mark? I move that we pass the resolution. Second that. All right, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution.
 Any final comments from the council? Somebody, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. Mutch. Yes. Letourne. Yes. Smith. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kinnett. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Well done, council. All right. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have?
 No announcements? Wow. I'm going to hurry and adjourn. Okay, well, thank you all very much. We're adjourned.