I would like to call to order the December the 5th 2023 City Council meeting. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Here. Whitaker? Here. Erna? Here. Bunch? Here. Turk? Turk. Hertzberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, libertarian, justice for all.
 Okay, the first order business we have tonight under reports. We have the monthly finance report by Paul Becker Paul Good evening mayor and council this report is for the month of October which is month 10 in our fiscal year So we've still got two months to to go for the fiscal year
 The sales tax for the month of September and as we discussed at the agenda session, sales tax were up 2% for the month over last year. As we look at the sales tax, it's still up 6%, however, it's been a little soft in the last couple of months. Remember, it was 2.5% down in one month and it was up 2%.
 Then it was also up 5%. So it was up 5% one month, down 2% one month, and then up 2% another month. So it looks like that could possibly be leveling off. We still are 6% for the year, and we've got two months to go. Franchise fees have come in strong. They're up 6% compared to last year. Alcohol and beverage taxes, again, on a year-to-date basis, are up roughly 15%. That's alcohol taxes and the licenses.
 Building permits at this point in time was up 11%. It's starting to get a little stronger again as we finish the year. 9-1-1 fees were down a little bit. Remember, they were very large in the last couple of years. So they've tailed off a little bit.
 Charges for services, which are park services, things of that nature, services we do and charge to other entities, were roughly flat. They were down a little less than 1%, but essentially flat for the period. Court fees are coming up a little bit. Interest has been strong this year compared to what we budgeted, and property tax was up 5%. So all in all, the revenue for the city was up...
 Roughly seven percent compared to compared to prior year Sales tax as we talked about one of the earmarks I told us to tell the council look at as we progressed through the year was if we paid for the salary increases granted back in April though and
 If we paid for that strictly from sales tax, we'd need about a 9.3% increase in sales tax, which we're not going to finish with. We're about a million dollars below behind schedule, but that's going to be made up by other sources that were up. So had we only relied on sales tax,
 to meet that increase. We wouldn't have made it, but we have enough increases in other categories to make that up. Remember, sales tax is 60%. All the other ones were roughly 40%. So the general fund is doing well at this point in the year going forward. The street fund was pretty flat for the year. We were up about 1%. Remember, motor fuel taxes and 1.5% sales tax have been pretty strong most of the year, but that's starting to level off a little bit.
 In total, for the fund total, we're up 3%. Most of that driven by MFT and sales tax were 1%. Interest earnings were very strong for the street fund. We look at parking. Parking fund is down 8% compared to the estimated revenue for the year.
 Actually, the downtown area is up a bit, and the entertainment district is down a little bit. So we're down about 8% in the parking fund. However, as I look at our expenditures, our expenditures are less than what was budgeted at this point in time. So we should come out with a positive impact for the year.
 Parks Development Fund. The Parks Development Fund, remember, funds the parks and maintenance of the parks, basically. For the month, we were actually down a little bit. If we extrapolate forward and look at some of the late payers, we were essentially flat. Now, that's...
 fairly unusual. Usually we're up in HMR taxes, but they were pretty flat for the month of October. As compared to last year, however, on a year-to-date basis, we're still up 8%. So it's still strong at this point in time.
 Water and sewer sales, they were down roughly half a percent on a year-to-date basis, the billing. Recycling and trash collection is down 3%. Remember the transfer station was down for an extended period and we're not getting the same income from the recycling materials such as cardboard, aluminum and things like that that we had anticipated.
 However, I'm not concerned about that either. We should have a positive impact by the end of the year when we measure expenditures to revenues. The airport flights are down about 2 percent. They've been down most of the year, but not dramatically. Fuel sales, the revenues for fuel sales is down to 24 percent, which is a pretty significant
 Pretty significant however when I compare that to the expenditures for fuel We're only down roughly five percent less than last year so That at this point of time. I'm not concerned about and it looks like we should be we should be Holding our own in the airport finishing out the year so when I sum up all of it We're still having a very positive year however in
 Yeah, we need to look at the future. Not sure what the future is going to bring us. Well, many things are starting to level off. When we look at HMR taxes flattening out, when we look at the sales tax being reduced from what we had originally thought its robust
 increase would be and we're looking at some of those areas we need to very carefully look at going into next year on a revenue basis at this point in time again however that's going to it's going to be a positive year that we're going to end with and I'll be happy to answer any questions what questions we have
 Hi, Paul. Thanks for the report. In regard to property taxes, and we've made an adjustment to our millage, I know that most property taxpayers saw a significant increase in what they paid this last year. And I was curious if we knew what the delinquency numbers were in 22 versus 23. Those were numbers that were reported to us as far as what's outstanding from 22 versus 23.
 Well, the delinquency, I have not seen a large impact on the delinquencies. When I look at that particular sector at this point in time, you always have some delinquencies, some late payers, but it has not been significant this year. Again, the property taxes will finish up about 6% this year, but I don't see a significant impact on delinquency. Now, next year we might see something, I don't know, and I'll keep an eye on that.
 as we go into the year, but I see nothing significant at this point in time. Anything else? Okay, thank you, Paul. All right, let's move along with the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the November 21st, 2023 City Council Meeting Methods. Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of a grinder from Roto-Chopper Incorporated in the amount of $634,952 plus any applicable
 surcharges, freight charges, and delivery fees pursuant to source will cooperative purchasing contract and approved budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2023 tenant sweeper from Staples in the amount of $78,004.00
 and 37 cents plus any applicable search surcharges freight charges and delivery fees pursuant to a source will cooperative purchasing contract and approved budget adjustment number four a resolution to approve the purchase of three grasshopper mowers from straights lawn and garden incorporated in the total amount of forty nine thousand six hundred and fifty three dollars plus any applicable surcharges freight charges and delivery fees pursuant to an omnia cooperative purchasing contract
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 23-35 and authorize the contract with Terra Firma Restorations LLC in the amount of $275,900 for the town center roof restoration and to approve the project contingency in the amount of $27,590 and to approve the budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 23-35
 Dash 41 and authorized contract Trumbull Construction Incorporated in the amount of $81,172 for the recycling, trash collection, transfer station, and water sewer roof rehabilitation project and to approve project tenancy in the amount of $8,117.20.
 Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 23-42 and to authorize contract Milestone Construction Company, LLC, any amount of $344,115 for the replacement of the city hall roof and skylight to approve project contingency any amount of $34,411.50 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 This is a city facility improvements bond project. Number eight, a resolution to award RFP 23-11 and approve a one-year contract with the MVP Sports Photography for Photography Services for used soccer and softball programs with automated renewals for up to four additional years. Number nine, a resolution to award RFP 23-11
 Dash 18 and approved a 10-month contract with something different LLC for the operation of concessions located at Kessler Mountain Regional Park soccer and baseball complex Gary Hampton softball complex Lake federal softball complex and the Wilson Park pool with all the main renewals for up to four additional years. I
 number 10 a resolution to approve an agreement of understanding with the Arkansas Department of transportation for a safe route school plan for federal public schools and to approve budget adjustment and
 Number 11, a resolution to approve an agreement of understanding with the Arkansas Department of Transportation for construction of the Drake Street Trail and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 12, a resolution to approve an amendment number 10 to the contract with Environmental Consulting Operations Incorporated in the amount of $65,500 for wetlands mitigation, site monitoring, and management in 2024.
 Number 13, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 15 to the Agreement for Operations, Maintenance, and Management Services with CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated at any amount of $8,476,468 for services in 2024 and to approve the project tenancy in the amount of $423,823.40. Number 14.
 A resolution to authorize applications for two certified local government grants in the total amount, local government grants in the total amount of $40,000 through the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program for the preparation of multiple property documentation
 form for the University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhoods and a historic context statement for the spout spring neighborhood and to approve the budget adjustment for the city's grant match in the amount of $15,000 number 15 a
 A resolution to approve an interlocal purchasing agreement with the North Central Texas Council of Governments to authorize contract with MIMS Infrastructure Management Services, LP, for payment analysis and related services pursuant to an interlocal agreement with term of the contract and any renewal periods and to approve a budget adjustment.
 And number 16, a resolution to authorize acceptance of the 2023 Community Policing Development Crisis Intervention Team Grant from the U.S. Department of Justice in the amount of $400,000 to approve the addition of two full-time
 equivalent non uniformed positions to the police department higher additional social workers for the crisis intervention team and to approve the budget just Mr. Mayor, I make a motion we approve the consent agenda as read second Jones
 yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay under unfinished business we don't have it all right under new business
 number one a resolution to express the intent of the City Council to commit seven hundred and thirty thousand dollars to complete the signalization and road work for the Futrell Drive Railroad cross yeah Thank You mayor
 Good evening, Council. My name is Devin Halland. I'm with the Department of Economic Vitality. The item before you for your consideration is a resolution of intent to fund the completion of the Futurall Railroad crossing at the intersections of Drake and North Gregg Avenue for Washington Regional Medical Center. This project is actually a 2019 transportation bond project that was in the original list sent out to the voters.
 that was approved by the voters. This item was originally introduced by Mayor Jordan in May of 2020, and following seven months of work, the item would go on to be passed in December of that year with Ordinance 6393.
 During its time through the council, the funding was removed for the construction of the small strip of road that connects the railroad track to North Gregg Avenue, as well as the reconfiguration of the signal so that it works safely with the trail crossing and other crossings near it. Following that decision to remove it, staff stated at that time we would need to decide how this is covered as we near large-scale development. And I'm really happy to be here today because we're getting very close.
 As we mentioned after the agenda session last Tuesday, the Transportation Committee met and voted 4-0 to forward the item to the Full City Council for approval. Given this item was introduced to the public three years ago, we wanted to again hit on the economics behind it in a reminder that these are 2020 numbers. Washington Regional Medical Center employs thousands and thousands and thousands of residents here in town.
 They're responsible for keeping our community healthy, and they're an extremely significant employer. And they need to grow. And in and of that, at the time we were talking about this last time, the hospital actually did not own any property on the other side of the road. But that has changed. They have purchased property, closed, secure, they own it, and they are ready to go back
 Using these figures here that we talk about the phases, and I won't repeat them in full, but we're talking about $35 million and $85 million across those two phases. Those are 2020 numbers. We've experienced extreme cost escalation since between now and then, and so those numbers have undoubtedly risen.
 The project scope includes two primary parts. The first part is the small stretch of road work, and we have a diagram to show you in just a moment, that connects the railroad tracks to North Gregg Avenue, and then again reconfiguration of the signal.
 Public Works has advised that reconfiguring the signal, which has an estimated contractor price of $609,000 out of that $730,000 total, that $609,000 number can be lowered greatly through exploring cost shares, use of city services, etc. How much? Well, we're going to get to work on that if you pass this resolution of intent and a cost share agreement will come back to you for your review in the very near future.
 Here's an exhibit of the crossing and I wanted to draw your attention to phase one of the project. You can see the railroad tracks there on the left and then carrying over a very very small stretch of road. And we can zoom out a little bit and look at the broader interchange. This is the striping plan, but here you can also see the adjusted signals. And that reconfiguration not in Public Works. Public Works is here should you have any questions after this presentation.
 but this is where the majority of those funds are, and that is so that it can talk to the other signals. We are safe. We have safe trail crossings, et cetera.
 Council I want to thank you for consideration and this is an extremely important project to us Chris Brown our public works director is here Should you have any technical questions that I can't answer and I'm here as well. Thank you for your consideration on this vote Okay, what questions do we have from Devin on this? He's been to the Transportation Committee Everybody good. All right All right Let's take some public comment
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on the topic please give us your name and address those present and the chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this in the council on this topic okay i'll bring it back to the council this is a resolution mary i just wanted to make note that there are no people i'm sorry i got a little quick on the draw there didn't i
 I would like to move that we pass the resolution. I would second that. We have a motion to second the passed resolution. Any final comments from the council? Bob? Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, okay. You're ready to vote, yes. I see. You're kind of like me. I was missing out on all that. All right. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Wienerker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. That's a good investment.
 An ordinance to adopt the latest FEMA flood insurance rate maps, Washington County flood insurance study, and any FEMA certified letters of map change is regulatory for the city of Federal.
 Whereas in 2015 the City of Fayetteville partnered with FEMA and the Arkansas Department of Agricultural and Natural Resources Division to begin processing of updating the flood map rate maps and flood insurance study for Washington County. And whereas in 2017 FEMA issued preliminary mapping for the impacted communities to review and revised maps were issued in 2021 for final review.
 And whereas an appeal filed by another community in Washington County delayed the issuance of a final mapping until 2023. And whereas in July, the City of Fayetteville received a FEMA final determination letter indicating the flood insurance rate maps will become effective countywide January 25, 2024.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves and adopts the latest FEMA flood insurance rate maps, Washington County Flood Insurance Study, and any FEMA-certified letters of map change as regulatory for the City of Fayetteville, Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that this ordinance shall take effect on January 25, 2024. Chris? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor.
 This is an update to the FEMA floodplain maps that we've been using. We are essentially required to adopt these new maps as part of our ordinance. The maps go into effect January 25, 2024. I've got a few slides here just to go through some of the changes so you all can see what's changed, what the impact of that might be to the system.
 to the overall city. Again, as I mentioned the other day,
 This is really based on, the majority of the changes are based on more accurate data. So it's just basically, the studies have not been redone, they've just been rerun on more accurate LIDAR data. So we feel like the maps are much more accurate now than they were in the previous version. So first, just to go through a few terms here, the firm that we mention sometimes is the flood insurance rate map. Those are the maps that we're talking about.
 A special flood hazard area, that's essentially when we talk about the 100-year flood plain, that's what that is. And then the flood insurance study is the detailed report that's got all of the detailed study information, most of which nobody ever looks at because we just use the maps for reference.
 So just to talk a little bit about the process, this began in 2015, FEMA and the Arkansas
 Agriculture, Natural Resource Division began this project. There were public meetings and of course that went through COVID, so it's been going on quite a while. And then ultimately the floodplain webpage was updated and so all of this information is available on the website.
 So here's just some examples of what has changed. Start with some of the enlarged floodplain areas. First one there on the left is the Fulbright Expressway and School Avenue. The southern end of the Fulbright Expressway and south of there, there are some areas that do have some additional floodplain
 The second one there on the right is Elmhurst Avenue in McClinton area and as it happens that is a project that's in our transportation bond issue or in our drainage bond issue, 2019 drainage bond issue. So once those improvements, they are designed to carry the 100-year flow so that floodplain actually will be greatly reduced.
 That, we know that that is more accurate because we have documented evidence of flooding and structures in that area. So the blue area that you see is the existing floodplain. And obviously the red area is much more accurate. And again, when that project is completed, we will be able to reduce that floodplain.
 Next is around MLK and Stadium Drive. This is near the shopping center there. You see the high school there right in the middle of the picture. So not a lot of significant changes, more impacts to roadways and that sort of thing.
 And then on the right side is 15th Street, Curtis Avenue area. Again, a lot of it is undeveloped property, but there are some additional floodplain areas. So next we have some areas where we are reducing the floodplain footprint. The first there's a Salem Drive area, that's Clyburn Creek, so between Salem and Ruppel
 Again, we feel like that is this is an accurate depiction the green areas are what? Are proposed with the with the new mapping will show and based on our information from the 2017 flood It matches up much better than the blue area does so all of those homes in the blue areas that That are being removed from the floodplain did not flood during that 2017 event
 The second one is off of Joyce. It's the Neocostco Creek area. I believe that's Flynn Creek just west of Crossover Road.
 A couple more. This is Shiloh Drive south of Weddington, so we have quite a few structures again that are shown within existing floodplain and in the green area is the proposed floodplain with the new mapping, so several structures being removed from the floodplain. Whoops.
 And then Magnolia Drive, just to the west, to the left of that photo is Gully Park. So it's just upstream of Gully Park.
 So lastly some some statistics the overall Area of the special flood hazard area that the floodplain on in the city is being reduced slightly We also have a few structures that are being removed from the floodplain so that's kind of the net of all of the the ins and outs of the floodplain and That's my last slide. I'll close by saying that This is really
 It's kind of a step in the process and it really is something that has to be done. If we do not adopt these new maps, then the city would be suspended from the floodplain program and folks in the city would not be able to get flood insurance. So it's really important to get these new maps adopted and again they will be effective as of January 2024.
 i can answer any questions okay what questions do we have tracy
 Thank you Mayor and thank you Chris. I know this has been a long time coming and all the work that you all have done. My question is really about the future. So you kind of talked about the future project on Elmhurst and McClintock. And so once the city's completed that, reduced the floodplain or the flood flooded area, how do you make those updates? What's the process so that the maps continue to be as accurate as possible with new work and new information?
 Yes, so we will have to do a formal flood study, submit that to FEMA, and once that's approved, we would have a letter of map revision and the maps would be formally revised. So that'll be the step after the construction is complete.
 Just a follow-up, and that's a standard process that you do with any of the new drainage work that you're doing, and does it usually take six months or a year, or is it pretty quick? Yeah, it depends on the scope. I would say this one could take several months because it is a pretty significant change and a somewhat complicated model that will be required. So, yeah, several months to possibly a year. Okay, thank you.
 How are those that were impacted previously that have fallen off and then those structures and properties that come on, how are they notified of that change of status?
 I might let Alan come up and talk about the detailed process, but we did During during this process we did contact all of the affected property owners by postcard And I believe they were given some opportunity to respond to that look at the maps that sort of thing So Alan, I don't know if there's a better answer you might have. Yeah, I think that's that was the process.
 And then I have a follow-up. So once, say, they've come on to the map, that means they have the ability to purchase that insurance. How are they notified of that process now that the map will be updated? Do they get anything from local agents? Do they get something from the federal government? Does something come from the city? I'm just not familiar with that process, and I'm sure some of us are going to have impacted constituents. Yeah, that is a good question for Alan. Yeah.
 So typically if someone is brought into the floodplain they may not know it right away. Usually what I see is if they go to refinance their structure or sell it, that issue comes up and they're informed that they're fairly required to carry flood insurance on that structure.
 lot of times their mortgage lender will check the updated maps and contact them directly and indicate that they're now federally required to carry flood insurance. So if they are brought into the floodplain, there is that requirement. Those that are taken out, that federal requirement drops. That does not mean they have to drop their flood insurance. They can certainly continue to carry that and potentially get a much
 favorable rate once they're removed from the floodplain as far as their premiums go and you don't necessarily have to be in the floodplain for to carry flood insurance that's available to anyone in the city of Fayetteville that would like to carry a policy as well so.
 Just one other follow-up about notification. I was just curious if in the past, have we notified residences when these have changed about purchasing flood insurance through like water bills or postcards or things like that as well from the city of Fayetteville historically? Yes.
 I don't know historically because this is kind of new for my tenure in the City of Fayetteville. So our previous maps were May 16, 2008. So that was the last change that we had. As far as this round goes, as Chris pointed out, we did work with GIS to identify those impacted properties and sent, to our knowledge, all of them a postcard that said you're being impacted and gave them the opportunity to view that impact both on our website and on
 and then provided some information directly to, for contacts directly to FEMA, because FEMA was taking that comment directly and not taking it through the community, if that makes sense. So hopefully those residents were able to comment during that process, but as Chris pointed out, we do feel after reviewing that,
 We actually requested FEMA go back and take another look at several areas and we helped out with that process because we did not feel those maps were accurate in all areas of Fayetteville as preliminary put out. We do feel good about the new mapping and we've been able to verify a lot of those areas with the flooding that we saw in 2017. So we do feel like they're a much more accurate representation.
 i just have a quick follow-up about the notifications since sarah brought it up do the notifications just go to the physical address or do you make sure that they get to the owner of the property because we do have a lot of rentals sure so excuse me um when we pill those when gis helps us pull those there typically is both a physical address and a mailing address we would send it to whatever the mailing address in the county record would show which is
 most likely the owner of the property, not the renter, if that makes sense. So those two are typically, can be different when you look in the county record. Great. Thank you. Anything else? All right. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five-minute duration.
 don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chair would be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom speak after that is there anyone in the chamber that wants to speak on this topic
 Anyone on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Make a motion to pass. Second. We've got to go. We've got to suspend the rules and go to second reading. That's what you meant. Make a motion that we extend the rules and go to second reading. We have a motion to second to go to second reading. Carriers, please call the roll. Jones. Jones.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to adopt the latest FEMA flood insurance rate maps, Washington County Flood Insurance Study, and any FEMA-certified letters of map change as regulatory for the City of Fayetteville.
 Make a motion we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones. Jones.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to adopt the latest FEMA flood insurance rate maps, Washington County Flood Insurance Study, and any FEMA-certified letters of map change as regulatory for the city of Fayetteville. Any final comments from the council? I make a motion to pass. No, wait, wait, wait. We're ready to go. Okay.
 we passed the third reading didn't we yeah so we're ready to vote we have final comments yes sir thank you thank you um i appreciate um the additional information um from staff about the notifications that went out previously and so i just want to put into consideration since this hasn't changed since 2008 i know i shuffle my mail and it's such a big thing that's happening because we unfortunately do take on you know quite a bit of water
 you know in you know small increments of time really want to make sure that these properties are aware is to just consider whether or not we send a postcard or something else and very supportive of these maps changing but just want to make sure in notifications I know we have such busy lives so I'd appreciate that consideration okay anything else any comments please go down
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number three. A resolution expressed the City Council's support for the 71B Corridor Regulating Plan and Work Program. Jonathan? Thank you, Mayor. Will you allow me a moment to pull this up here?
 All right, I am Jonathan Kurth, the City's Development Services Director. Last week, Council had the opportunity to hear a summary of the rationale behind developing the 2019-71B plan, the years of work that led to adopting its regulating plan, the slew of projects that have resulted from that plan either completed in progress or upcoming, and staff's request for reaffirmation from Council to revisit the corridor's land use and zoning framework.
 Perhaps unsurprisingly, that may have left some of you with more questions, curiosities, and certainly your constituents as well. And so what I hope to do is address some of that tonight as much as I can to the extent possible with where we are with the project. In broad terms, the project will have three general elements.
 The first may appear or at least sound anticlimactic. It's the study phase of the project. It's where if council does take an affirmative action tonight towards this, you will probably not hear a whole lot from us for a little while. We will
 effectively disappear to go work out the logistics of what a plan like this looks like, what implementing it does, what a project schedule looks like, some important initial work defining the initial project area, constraints, considerations, those that we want to ensure are included as stakeholders that may not otherwise already be included, like the property owners and businesses along 71B are with any assumed participation.
 And then perhaps most importantly, a recognition that the city has a wide range of adopted plans and projects that are underway and that there's a lot of interrelations that exist and opportunities for complementary efforts between those, whether it's our climate action plan, whether it's any of our long-range planning documents. There are a lot of goals that can be met with many of these different efforts. The second principal element of the plan is outreach.
 Many of you all may already know what our baseline notification looks like, but I think it's worth at least sharing that with you. With any rezoning effort, assuming again that that is the outcome of this project, we are required by law to, or local ordinance as well as to some extent state ordinance, to notify the property owners of all the affected properties, but locally we also do go beyond that and notify the tenants of those properties, whether it's business owners or residents.
 We also post signs in an area this extensive. It'll likely be dozens and dozens and dozens of signs that will be going up in future months. Finally, there's a newspaper notification element to it as well. That's your baseline notification. We're Fayetteville, so we very rarely do that. It has always been a priority to maximize how much our residents are able to offer input wherever possible. What that looks like is additional meetings, not just going –
 or not just inviting people to come to us as sometimes could be the case setting up a meeting in city hall where it's not geographically convenient or or convenient time today for people to come visit but actually going to those areas of the corridor we currently intend to have localized meetings along the corridor trying to define areas that have logical breakdowns of those areas so that people can get to them as easily as possible
 But then also making staff as available as possible for people's follow up concerns, whether it's just understanding a baseline information. Why is why is the city proposing to do this? Uh, the more complicated things what what is this going to do to my property? Are you going to render my use non conforming? Are you going to run me out of business by rezoning my property?
 Those are all very reasonable concerns that a lot of business owners and property owners have, and we want to make ourselves available and have in the past some projects like this to answer those questions one by one or in a group setting.
 Finally, it's important that we incorporate that input. It is not staff's intent to create a proposal that is a final product, then we take it to the public and say this is it, what's your feedback, and then move that forward. The hope is that in any process like this that we are able to receive feedback that is seen in a meaningful way in the final product that ultimately comes to public hearing. Which brings us to the third and final main element of the project.
 At least two public hearings will occur with anything that's brought forward. As with any rezoning, it paths first to our Planning Commission and then on to our City Council. You all see rezonings enough to know that you have three readings with which you have to play with, for lack of a better word. There's no legal obligation for you all to suspend the rules and approve a rezoning in one night. You are entitled statutorily to leave it on a reading every meeting.
 So that means if there is meaningful feedback that is still coming up at that time, there'll be an opportunity for the public to offer it and for you all to incorporate it into the plan before it moves forward. Ultimately and perhaps the most important thing to understand in all this is that there is no predetermined outcome as a part of this. I think that's a very important thing for both the council to understand if you don't realize that already, but especially the public.
 That is the intent of the process. It is to understand what the facts are on the ground, understand what the needs are of the business owners and the property owners, and see where we can meet on all those and come up with a proposal that meets the city's needs and the property owner's needs.
 Also, it's important to know that what I just shared with you, those three elements, they're not sequential. Once we move on from one stage, it does not mean we can step back to another one. They will often be running concurrently. We don't stop fact-finding as soon as we start public meetings. It is important to realize that all of these will be occurring all along up until the minute an ordinance is approved at the back end of this.
 So with all that and in closing, staff is of course asking for your vote on this resolution tonight And I'm happy to take any questions the council has or any questions that you've received from your constituents in the meantime Thank you So Jonathan just as it is now can you kind of give us a rough idea of
 I know some areas like Mableton North has been kind of reworked. What is the average current zoning? I see a lot of C2 and there's some further down south, there's some industrial zoning. Is there any zoning of the older zoning that allows for housing?
 No, not by right, no. And you're correct. To the north, the most predominant zoning district is C2, Thoroughfare Commercial. To the south, it's a bit more mixed, but there are large areas of industrial zoning, especially as you move south towards the Tyson plan. Yes, yes, okay. Okay.
 And so just to kind of tell people what that type of zoning allows, can you give us just some samples of uses that would be in a C2 zoning or that would be just a rough idea of something that might be in an industrial zoning?
 Certainly. The C2 zoning district is our most permissive, to your point, kind of like an older school zoning district. It allows buildings to be built further away from a front property line, have the parking lot built in front of it. That's more the form of what it allows than anything. As far as what you can build on the property, it can range from anything from a –
 a small snow cone stand up to a 100,000 square foot box store on the retail side of things. It can allow several story office buildings, permits gas stations, it permits car washes, it permits car dealerships and function. And perhaps appropriately, as it was applied in the 1970s, it was intended to be a very auto oriented zoning district.
 On the industrial side of things, the intensities get much more intense, as you might imagine. There are a lot of those uses I just described allowed in our industrial districts. That has been a change made in recent years to acknowledge that warehouses are sometimes used as microbreweries and restaurants and things like that.
 But those are the more mundane things allowed in industrial districts from a perspective. They also allow manufacturing facilities. They allow warehousing facilities. Some of our more intense ones, our I2 zoning district or general industrial zoning district, they can allow petrochemical storage and things that can potentially have pretty noxious impacts on surrounding uses.
 and not necessarily what we envision for areas that we would like to promote residential living. Okay, thank you. Thank you for that. Certainly. Hi, Jonathan. You know, we're starting to get a lot of public comments, a lot of public input, and you kind of made the statement that, or I'm going to paraphrase you, that nothing is completed. You don't have a prescribed vision of how this is going to be worked out.
 So some of the public comments that we're hearing back is increasing the width between the highway and the sidewalk. Are those details already contained within your plan or within the plan?
 I think the concern is about safety and that sort of thing. So I just wanted to clarify the status of that tonight. Sure. The street design that was shared with you last week is currently only being considered for the portion from North to Sycamore. There are design drawings for other portions from Sycamore to Township, and there's also been some design work done from MLK to 15th Street as well.
 A lot of that work is predicated on trying to work within our existing right-of-way because of the significant amounts of costs associated with buying additional right-of-way. And in certain pieces of property, you may be buying a building or you may be running up against something less flexible or maybe have a cost associated with it that makes it unfeasible.
 As a result of that, I think there are some instances where we were not able to incorporate as much green space as we may not have wanted between the sidewalk. That is absolutely an aspiration of the city. We recognize it in our active transportation plan and a lot of our master street planning documents to try to incorporate that to make users more comfortable on sidewalks.
 Um, without knowing exactly what the dimensional concerns or anything beyond that, that the residents may have, uh, it's been a priority to include green space wherever possible. But I don't think we've ever or I don't think there. I think there are instances where you've not been able to, uh, provide what may be found on fully new greenfield streets like Rupel Road, for example.
 I haven't seen any dimensional requests, but I do think it is a significant safety concern. And so I'm glad to hear that you all have been looking at that carefully and trying to provide as much green space as possible. So thank you. Certainly. Paul?
 First, Jonathan, thank you so much to you and your staff for working so hard on this. I know this has been in the works for a long, long time, and so I'm excited for when we have a chance to move forward on these plans. I want to second what Teresa's concerns. I've heard similar things from my constituents about the separation between the vehicular traffic and the pedestrian areas.
 i think you know if you if you have walked on college or some of our busier streets or south school it can be kind of nerve-wracking even though it may be safe it's still kind of nerve-wracking to have that traffic right next to you uh zooming by and so i hope that's something that we can finesse and work towards as the project goes along um
 a little question I have and I think I asked this in one of our previous meetings is Right now on the 71 B plan you're not including the area between MLK and 15th because that was part of the Walker Park plan that's correct. Okay, but Does that still align with what we did in the Walker Park plan? Does that align with
 with what you're doing on the 71b plans the same type of zoning opportunities uh for zoning along that section of South School I'm not sure I understand are you asking if what was done on South School with the Walker Park plan is indicative of what will be done elsewhere yes correct uh possibly I mean it's certainly an open piece of the conversation I I say there are no predetermined outcomes I think it is worth noting that
 residential is certainly an aspiration to inject residential into the 71b corridor and that is something that occurred with the Walker Park plan is supply zoning designations between MLK and 15th beyond 15th Street that allow a wide mixture of uses including multi-family housing and duplexes and townhomes and a wide diversity of housing types great wonderful thank you so much Jonathan could you kind of
 Talk a little bit more about what we would hope for, like our perfect goals for the traffic calming in this area and access management. I mean, I know in particular there are several areas in Ward 3 that just have, you know, large parking lots that have multiple parking
 Ingress egress points and that makes it very dangerous for traffic as it is Are we looking at if we have sidewalks in are we looking at maybe you know narrowing the street a little bit or? providing some islands You know like pedestrian crossings where people can have a refuge point if they can get across part of the street They can stop and maybe have a safe spot and then go on over to the other side. That's a good question. I
 The answer may be in two different pieces. I mean, there's an aspirational piece, which I think is reflective of what our ordinances require. I always, or I often like to say that what we put in code is what we aspire to as a community in a lot of ways. So certainly North College or large portions of North College do not reflect what our current access management standards have.
 There are places in our code that requires properties redevelop. We can require them to meet those standards and or as city projects. We often work with property owners to do that. That includes with the 71 B project. A lot of our design drawings.
 Approach it with an aspirational state where we review it for what how we would achieve our access management standards where we could close curb cuts or reduce them from 40 or 50 feet wide to something that's more manageable for a pedestrian or frankly safer for vehicles as well.
 And then that is the starting point of the conversation. And then also trying to figure out if there are opportunities between properties for cross-access to ensure that every property owner does maintain that level of access they need to make their businesses function better.
 The reality of as the projects are implemented, that's when the negotiating begins with individual property owners. And sometimes that requires reducing the size of medians, sometimes reduce the length of how long a median is, or ensuring that there are curb cut accesses that are maintained for certain properties. There's certainly a legal framework in which we have to work with these projects.
 If we were to impose our access management standards on these properties without them increasing or changing their impact, we would be in a situation where we are perhaps reducing their property value and would be obligated to compensate them for that. So I'm kind of dodging your question, I realize, but there's definitely where our aspirations and the legal realities meet each other. And our goal is always to try to ultimately come up with a safer version of the street at the end.
 Thank you very much. I want to say that I support this wholeheartedly, but I've got a couple of things that I'm starting to hear from my constituents of concern, and I want to make sure that we put that out there and that we make sure we're educating people along the way because there is some concern.
 um and and i understand i want to make sure it's kind of like the budget the budget's used as a road map for the the upcoming year this corridor plan is basically a road map on where we're wanting to go is that correct
 Think that's a fair characterization and it's going to adjust as we go in accordance to whatever hurdles or obstacles We may encounter we may have to adjust it a little bit here there. Is that correct? Again, I think that's fair to say. Okay Because I think we have some constituents that are starting to voice are we getting in certain areas and and I'll I'll
 be generic, just keep it generic, is I think we're not getting as big a bang for our buck in certain areas because of cost associated with the project. So I think there is some concern about that, so I wanna make sure that we, as we move along, we are cognizant of that fact and make sure the public knows that we're trying to do the best we can with the dollars that we have.
 But I support this. I think it's absolutely what we need to do, but I do, you know, I think we want to make sure we educate the consumer. I'm already getting some complaints about the reduced curb cuts because it's affecting their business right there, where would it be, across from Lewis Ford.
 or Lewis Chrysler when it's really congested there, Whole Foods. So I've got a couple of calls on that already. So I want to be cognizant of the business owners along that route. Certainly. No, I appreciate that feedback. I'm not sure specifically what has happened –
 that area of the project and there's not been any design work done at this point is it yeah I'm talking about stuff that's development that's happened within the last year or two and it's creating issues and they're concerned you said additional development creating additional issues for them thank you understood
 I'll be a little less generic than Scott. I am opposed to any more money being put into the Plainview extension And I've heard that from several constituents as well So that's one area that I am concerned about that. I'm I won't be supporting in this particular plan overall, I think the plan is good, but that's Something that I've heard is a concern for the constituents in my area. Okay anything else?
 Okay, we'll go get some public comment. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating in the Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to be first in the chamber? Okay, go ahead, Tom. Hello, my name is Thomas Brown. I live at 339 North Gregg.
 The 71B corridor contains eight tier centers as depicted in the City's Growth Concept Map. With the successful implementation of the 71B corridor plan, a significant share of the City's future businesses and population can be supported
 and connected in a linear series of mixed-use, pedestrian-oriented, live, work, and play urban environments that can be built at a density that will support attainable housing and transit. To accomplish these planning goals,
 One of the most important plan implementation activities the City can undertake is the rezoning of the 71B transit corridor and the tier centers located within its boundaries. I support this important community development effort.
 The current implementation schedule for the adopted 71 corridor plan identifies phase one of the regulation strategy to be completed by 2025. This schedule suggests that the rezoning of the corridor should already be in progress. Therefore, I'm requesting the City Council to approve this resolution
 to study and rezone the 71 corridor plan area as recommended by the City staff and reaffirm their support for the implementation of the 71 corridor regulation strategy. I would like to offer one additional suggestion. Phase the rezoning effort.
 to first up zone all of the C2 and RO zone properties in the 71B corridor and its tier centers to encourage mixed-use pedestrian and residentially oriented developments. This strategy will start the rezoning effort with a regulatory action that should have the greatest impact on accomplishing the planning goals
 while using a rezoning approach that will offer the least potential controversy to the parcel owners and the residents. Thank you very much. Thank you, Tom. Who else would like to address us on this? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. All right. As soon as I said that, Mary Madden raised her hand. Okay, go ahead. Go ahead, Mary. Is my audio on now? Yes, we hear you.
 okay thank you my name is mary madden i live at 503 north forest avenue in fayetteville i am speaking as a citizen and resident of fayetteville but also am a member of the planning commission and am a practicing urban planner urban designer aicp certified and i am just want to comment that i am in support of moving forward with this
 In my experience here and around the country, I have seen the importance when you have a plan to move forward with zoning updates because zoning is the implementing tool for any planning work that is done in regards to development.
 And I think that we really need to make it clear our aspirations for any redevelopment along the corridor and our current zoning simply will not deliver what the city plans have indicated we desire.
 As Jonathan already indicated, what's permitted by right along the corridor with the majority of the zoning in C2 will produce more of what we already have.
 So I think it's really important that if we can update the zoning, especially permitting mixed use to make a clear, straightforward path for folks who would like to redevelop, who would like to provide housing, to make that as straightforward as possible by right, we can move forward in changing the character and fulfilling the plan that we say we would like to see along 71B. So I encourage you to support.
 the resolution and move forward with this effort. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What discussion? This is a resolution. What discussion would the council like to have? Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'll be supporting the resolution, um,
 It does many things that we all desire. We've talked about sidewalk safety and separating the sidewalk from the street, but we have so many miles that don't have any sidewalk at all, so the inclusion of sidewalk would be a huge benefit. I haven't made that walk once. I'll never do it again without a sidewalk. It enables the inclusion.
 the addition of housing, which we talk about every month that we're here, but more importantly for me, it encourages density where we want it, not necessarily in an established, mature neighborhood, but where we have both the infrastructure, the capacity, and transit routes, and employment centers. And that's where we would like to really introduce
 and encourage dense housing. So I view the project as two parts infrastructure and that's relatively designed and will be tweaked and rezoning. I would just remind myself and us that
 What we're talking about is setting the table for future development. We don't develop it. We still will rely upon our own development community to come along after this and take advantage of the table that's been set. But I view us as setting the table for the kind of growth that we would like to see. Thank you. Thank you. Sarah. Okay.
 Well, I'm incredibly excited to be supportive of this. I think that we've had other conversations about projects and we've talked about being
 And I think that our community has given us a lot of feedback about us creating a vision. And there was a community member who today I think scared on social media about trying to envision what the next 20, 30, 40, 50 years look like in Fayetteville. When I ran for council, that was the reason that I ran was because I have two children who I'm trying to think about what kind of Fayetteville I'd like to leave behind.
 Again, it sets a road map, but as was pointed out by Councilmember Whitaker, it really starts to put in place things that work towards strategic priorities that we identified as a council body are important to us and to our community around quality of life and making sure that we increase housing stock. And so it's part of the solution. It's not going to...
 be the magic bullet that solves it all. And so as you heard mentioned earlier, and I know tier centers for those maybe watching at home or following, it doesn't mean a lot to individuals who aren't in the depths of this. These are neighborhood centers. So think about the way that you interact in your community. We have such an incredible opportunity to really think about how we easily have that 15 minute walk.
 You know, I'm privileged to live in downtown Ward 2. I can pick my children up from Washington Elementary. I can stroll across 71 at a protected crosswalk and I can go to a grocery store. I can walk to my art teacher for my child and I can return to my home safely.
 That's not everybody's reality in Fayetteville, but we can make that a reality for more people in Fayetteville, for families, for those that retire here, and students. So that could be an opportunity for everyone that everyone could have the opportunity to afford. So for those reasons, I'm very excited and hope that we can even blow this timeline out of the water. Yes. We've talked about housing, which is so important. And I'm sorry.
 But right now 71B looks like a nasty scar through the middle of our community. And what I imagine this will do, will give us the opportunity to have housing and mixed use and basically do cosmetic surgery on what we have in Fayetteville. And this auto-centric, just thinking about heading north,
 on from North Street down College. You can see all the way to Springdale and it just looks like it's just not the most attractive development after one after another after another. Strip centers were the norm when a lot of when all this was built and you know and it's very auto-centric. It's all about getting in your car and driving places and if we can have
 It's also not very productive or efficient use of our land. We don't have the same scenario we had in 1970 or the 1960s when a lot of this was built.
 And we can't be flippant with our land use. We have to be very efficient with it. And when we think about creating productive, engaging spaces, it's usually not just a big parking lot. Although, when I was a kid in the 80s, that parking lot at Evelyn Hills was the hangout spot. So that was a long time ago. It's not that way anymore.
 Anyway, we can create spaces that are productive and engaging for our citizens and productive in the aspect of creating sales tax, revenue for our community, HMR tax, that sort of thing. Those parking lots don't do anything like that. They pay a little property tax, but they don't create any income in the city, really.
 And so I think, I imagine this, it's a roadmap, but just supporting this is planting the seeds of what we might potentially have in the future and correcting what we have now. And I'm hoping that everyone will support this and I can't stress enough how important it is. Thank you. Mayor. First, Sarah, thank you for bringing up that memory of Evelyn Hills.
 that does bring up a lot of old memories and I agree with what both Sarah's have set up here but more so I want to thank the commoners the public commerce I really agree with what they said about prioritizing the rezoning because it really does we could come up with a plan but but
 If we get it rezoned, then it'll make it easy for people, developers to develop that plan. And so I hope that we do put an emphasis on prioritizing that. And that's my comment. Well, as I said earlier, I wholeheartedly support this.
 want to throw a bucket of reality on everybody in the fact that we can sit here and approve this tonight, but this is a long process to get it where we want it to be and Just because we say this is what we want as Mike said we still have to have the developers come in here and you know build what we want and
 So this is going to be a long process and just because we sit here tonight and I feel very confident we're going to pass this, just because we sit here tonight and pass it doesn't mean we're going to wake up tomorrow and it's going to be it's going to be fixed. It's not. So be patient, know that it's going to take time and we will get there but it's going to take some patience.
 Do we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution? I make a motion to pass the resolution. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any other comments? I think it's going to be a fabulous corridor. It's going to take a little time. I agree with that. But we've come this far. Like Sarah pointed out the other night, she and I are about the only elected officials left in that 2018 vote.
 So that, but we've come this far and we'll take it the rest of the way. I like this corridor because it's going to, it's going to take care of all, it's going to help alternative transportation, housing needs, and it's going to be environmentally friendly, and I still believe that we can get public transit in here along 71.
 you know having said all that here would you please call me up jones yes more yes wedeker yes bernard yes bunch yes her yes herzberg yes stafford yes okay great thank you all all right let's go on to number four
 an ordinance to approve vacation 23-13 for property located at 3034 west mica street in ward 4 to vacate 153 square foot portion of utility easement whereas the city council has the authority in our aca 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following inscribed portions of utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Any damage to or relocation of any existing facilities will be at the property owner-developer's expense.
 And approval of this vacation request does not guarantee approval of any associated building permits. Okay. John?
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in northwest Fayetteville and Ward 4. It's just north of Weddington Drive along Salem Road, which you can see on the left side of the screen here. As you head north on Salem, Micah Street is the first right on your right. And as you head into that dead-end cul-de-sac, you reach the subject property. That property is developed with a duplex.
 and a substantial portion of the remainder of the property is currently within overlapping utility easements, some of which are dedicated separately from that.
 uh the request before council tonight is to vacate a portion of those overlapping easements totaling just over 150 square feet so the property owner is able to make an addition to the home that would not otherwise be allowed within the utility easement and reviewing the request staff has not identified any issues uh we've not seen are all the associated uh
 Uh, utility franchises have consented to the request accordingly staff is recommending approval of the proposal. Uh, there are 3 conditions that we recommend, uh, the 2 that, uh, Mr. Williams read and it was in his reading of the ordinance that I realized that it does not look like the 3rd.
 condition we're recommending made it to the ordinance language so I do ask that if amenable that one of the council members make an amendment to the ordinance to include language that AT&T has facilities within the remaining easement and shall require the remaining easements to be retained I apologize that I did not catch that until just now I'm available for any questions and mayor I believe Alan Reid is here as the representative for the applicant thank you
 Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Good evening, my name is Alan Reed. I'm here representing Jim Blagg on this easement vacation and we concur with all the findings of the staff and I really don't have much to add but I'd be willing to try to answer any questions you might have. Okay, any questions for the applicant or staff?
 okay well let's take some public comment we need to make a motion to add that uh oh do we need an agreement i actually have a question for jonathan on that um
 when you vacate a portion of an easement the remainder is always left so why do you need to say that it still remains it's been a convention of planning staff when we review the utility consent forms when a utility franchise responds consenting to a vacation conditioned on we try to incorporate those into the ordinance language but if legally it's defensible without that it may be that the amendment is not needed
 Well, if we haven't done that, we've been vacating portions of easements forever without saying, oh, yes, and then the rest of it that we didn't vacate still remains. It automatically remains. I appreciate that feedback, and I withdraw my request to have the amendment added. Thank you. And I'm not trying to get on staff, but also I think that any approval of a vacation request never guarantees any building approval.
 Any approval of associated building permits when we do a vacation? That's all we're doing and you can't say well. I got a vacation so you got to approve my building So we can leave that in there But I don't I really don't like it because if we don't keep putting it in there then people can say what means I'll get My building permit approved because you didn't say it didn't so in the future I think that
 We just need to be sure what this vacation does. All it does is what it says, that it vacates a portion of this easement. All the rest remains automatically. We don't have to say anything. And there's no guarantee of any building permit just because you approve a vacation request. That is always true. So we can pass it just like this, but I think from a legal point of view, we don't need to be saying that kind of stuff. And we haven't in the past. Stop.
 in most of these cases. So I would suggest we just leave it like it is now. But in the future, I don't think we need to remind them in an ordinance that because we approve the vacation request that that doesn't mean that they automatically get some building approval requests from it because that just never happens. That is not it. This is only a vacation, nothing else. So I don't think we need an amendment. We
 But I don't think we need those kinds of terms in there because it's really confusing. Because if you start using them, then you quit using them, that could be an argument from someone saying, well, since you said it didn't here and now you say it does, that they could attack us on that. So I would just not have those kind of conditions in, which are really legally automatically there. Thank you for that feedback. I'm just saying we don't need an amendment. We can go ahead and pass it as is.
 I'm maybe suspend the rules and go to the second reading well I got a comment first hang on everybody first I was going too fast and now I'm going too slow so give me give me a moment here now let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn speak you have a five-minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chat? Do we have anybody else? No, sir. Okay. Now I'll bring it back to the council. Now we can make all the... Are you ready? Yes, I am. Okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Jones Jones Moore yes Weedeker yes Erna yes Bunch yes Turf yes Ertzberg yes Stafford yes Any Orders to approve DAC 23-13 for property located at 3034 West Micah Street in Ward 4 to vacate a 153 square foot portion of a utility easement
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whedeker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes.
 And Lawrence approved the AC 23-13 for property located at 3034 West Micah Street, Ward 4, to vacate a 153-square-foot portion of utility easement. I'll call this from council. Here, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Warren?
 All right, let's go to number five. An ordinance rezoning that properties described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-0029 for approximately .09 acres located at the 533 West Center Street Ward 2 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, most attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, John, thank you. Thank you. Mayor. This property is in downtown Fayetteville and more too. It includes about just shy of a 10th of an acre of land just northwest of the Fayetteville public library. More specifically, it sits just on the north side of the trail access that extends westward from West Avenue down to the Razorback Greenway.
 It's currently developed with a single family home, which you can see directly from that trail access with an accessory dwelling unit built behind it. Both are currently licensed as short-term rentals. And another unique trait of the property, which you can perhaps perceive in the aerial here, is that it does not currently have any public street access. It gets its vehicular access through an adjoining property to the north under the same ownership to Center Street.
 The request before council, I'm sorry, I have a wrong exhibit in here. I apologize for that. This is from a different rezoning.
 The request before council is to rezone the property from the neighborhood conservation zoning district designation that it has today to Main Street Center MSC. If I had that correct exhibit with you or for you which is in your packet as exhibit A, I believe it's on page 5, you can see that the surrounding properties to both the north, east, and west are all currently zoned to or
 are currently zoned MSC Main Street Center and well as to the south that is zoned NC neighborhood conservation in reviewing the request from a compatibility standpoint staff does find it to be so being in downtown it's perhaps unsurprising that there's a fairly wide variety of uses in the area including residential uses there are attached townhomes immediately to the east
 There's a multifamily building to the northwest, the library to the southeast, several different types of residential housing along Gregg Avenue, and offices immediately adjacent along the trail to the northwest as well.
 Staff similarly finds the request to be complementary of our adopted land use plans, including our feature land use map, which designates the property as a city neighborhood area. Those are portions of Fayetteville that we anticipate supporting not just a wide variety of residential types, but also the potential for non-residential uses as well.
 The main street centered zoning district permits that by allowing everything from a single family home to a multifamily dwelling as well as offices, retail and several different other types of non residential uses. When it comes to the downtown plan staff dove a little bit deeper into that. You can see the property here from that document.
 One interesting background of this portion of the downtown plan is it has a shared history with the Mount Nord area where, as the zoning was developed for the downtown area, there were two pockets of single family neighborhoods and property owners that preferred to not have higher entitlements or higher zoning designations. And they successfully advocated to have neighborhood conservation and see zoning districts.
 Since that time, Mount Nord has remained almost or completely zoned in-sea neighborhood conservation, whereas this portion of the downtown area has seen properties change hands with the different development aspirations and the zoning districts gradually changing along the stretch of the road.
 Lastly, when it comes to infill rating or elements that contribute to what we find to be appropriate infill, staff has found several, numerous for a piece of property in Fayetteville. One of the highest ratings you can receive has obviously close proximity to Fire Station Number One, access to water, sewer, parks, trails, the Walmart neighborhood markets to the south, Fayetteville High School is just over the hill to the west, there has a high
 access within a quarter mile of both transit routes and there's a very high intersection density in the area which suggests a high level of connectivity and ability to absorb traffic
 Other issues staff identified include the adjacent zoning, which I alluded to previously to the north west and east of this property. It is on Main Street center today and would allow consistent development on this side of the trail connection. Conversely, it is a tandem lot, however, and Fayetteville tandem lots only entitlement is to build a single family home.
 The only way it could be developed with higher entitlement would be if it was combined with a lot that has frontage on a street, bringing it into conformance. So something to keep in mind when considering the realities of what could be developed on this property under the main street centered zoning district.
 Other considerations include that the tree canopy would reduce with this rezoning which may perhaps be unsurprising Main Street Center is one of our urban zoning districts which envisions a much higher prioritization on the built environment and less perhaps on the soft Environment and finally we have received one piece of public comment on this item there was a member of public who did speak in support of the proposal leading up to the Planning Commission and
 With those considerations, staff is recommending approval. The Planning Commission felt similarly and forwarded to the City Council by a unanimous 9-0 vote. Their comments were fairly limited. They noted most prominently that there are indeed a large number of elements that contribute to this being an appropriate location for infill and also agreeing generally with staff's findings in the report. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. Okay.
 I'm sorry, but any questions the council has and married mr. Brice you know is online as the applicant for this item Thank you. Okay with the applicant like speak for the council you have ten minutes Mr. Brice, you know, do you intend to speak here? He comes? Okay. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes Aside from the report. I have nothing really much more to add to it. I'm here for any questions you may have I
 Okay, do we have any questions from the council for the applicant or staff?
 I have a question for Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. So did I understand you correctly that a tandem lot can only have a single-family home on it? And I noticed that going from the current zoning to the proposed zoning, that height changes from three stories to five to seven. So would the applicant, if approved, be able to build a seven-story single-family home in that location? Sure.
 To your first question, yes, when it comes to residential uses, a tandem lot only permits a single family home. On the commercial side of things, if you think of the College Avenue area, there are opportunities in some zoning districts to build commercial uses behind other uses. And to your second question, theoretically, yes, a seven-story single family home could be built there. There are probably building code considerations that aren't immediately coming to my mind.
 but yeah yes under zoning code the zoning would would allow it if we made this change that's correct similar to the properties to the northeast and west okay thank you yeah um and i'll preface my statement by saying i do support this rezoning but and i don't want to assume
 what's going to happen here, but to a larger discussion and to our discussion back to short-term rentals. With this rezoning
 Anybody that gets a main street center zoning can by right turn their property into a short-term rental And so I'm not bringing it up about this I just think this is a good example that when we go back to having our discussions about short-term rentals that we keep in mind that as we do change things more to main street center and
 that that is one thing that can happen, so that we just keep that in consideration when we go back to the discussions about short-term rentals. That we're going to be able to have short-term rentals in this town, type twos, no matter if we end up limiting the types that we are discussing happening in the residential zone.
 and that's my only point and but i support this thank you mayor math our point of clarification and council member stafford may know this well and good but i wanted to make sure it wasn't misunderstood by other council members
 you can you can get a type 2 business license in the Main Street Center zoning district by right in the sense that you do not have to get a conditionally used permit but it is subject to the citywide cap like you all may know that but I wanted to make sure that was clear so when I didn't know that okay thank you sir anything else yes well since we brought up short-term rentals I do have one follow-up question since we're on that topic
 In regard to properties like this, though, on the buy-write, what does their process look like? Do they just get a business license or do they have any other approval if it's buy-write? They are only required to get a business license, that's correct, which involves a zoning review, ensure they're not conflicting with the cap, includes a life safety inspection and an accounting review to make sure they're registered to pay their HMR taxes. Okay, let's take some public comment.
 uh everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those president chamber will be allowed to speak first though participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone here to speak on this topic
 you have anybody on zone no sir okay gonna bring it back to the council so this is an ordinance what discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take suspend the rules and move the second read second second we have a motion and second to go to the second read care which please call the road jones yes moore yes fliedeker yes bernard yes
 Bunch? Yes. Thurk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RCN 2023-29 for approximately .09 acres located at 533 West Street in Ward 2 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2023-29 for approximately .09 acres located at 533 West Center Street in Ward 2 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to MSC Main Street Center. Any final comments from the council? Care which please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay, that concludes our business. Do we have any announcements?
 Don't have any mayor. I have one mayor if I could I would like to congratulate my hometown Fayetteville Bulldog football team on their perfect season and a very exciting Win championship game against another good team from Bentonville. So congratulations to the Fayetteville Bulldog football team Yes Council I would just like to
 remind everyone on behalf of council members Stafford and myself the ward would be quarterly board one meeting will be held on this Thursday and it will be held at 6 o'clock okay anything else all right thank you all we're adjourned