want to call to order the city council meeting of december the 6th 2022 to order uh care please call the wrong harvey harvey joe council member harvey saying she's having technical trouble but she's online we're trying to work with her opinion opinion whitaker here scroggins briancha bunch
 TURK Here Hertzberg Here Mayor Jordan Here Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay, the first order of business tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be for the month of October, so that's period number 10 in our fiscal year. We're beginning to wind it down toward the end of the year for actual sales that took place in September.
 For the general fund, the taxes year to date are up 14% for sales tax. So we're doing very well in sales taxes. Franchise fees are up about 15%. Building permits are up 36% as of the end of October.
 Beverage taxes are up about 40% charges for services, but 16% of the charges for services, those who are for things such as park activities, things of that nature. Our court fees are down, but they're starting to come back. They're only down about 10% of what we're budgeted. Interest is down substantially, but that's because we have such lower rates that we were locked into. All in all,
 The general fund is up 16% compared to what was budgeted. Remember that's been factored into the 2023 budget at this point in time, but all of the revenue estimates that we talked about during the formulation of the 2023 budget looks like they're right on track. First street fund, street fund again, very strong. Half cent turn back is up 24% at this point in time.
 MFT turnbacks up roughly 9%, so that means that gasoline usage is still there and partially driven by the inflationary costs of gasoline as far as the half-cent sales tax is concerned. All in all, the revenue is up by 25% compared to what, in fact, was budgeted at the beginning of this year.
 Parking revenues up 14% so that's starting to come back as the downtown and Dixon Street areas are coming back for the restaurants and and
 lounges and things of that nature down in the entertainment district. So the entertainment district's coming back pretty good. At least it has been through the month of October. And we hope that continues through the end of the year. HMR taxes themselves are up 18% compared to budget. So that's also shows you how they're coming back.
 Sales taxes actually were driven by the, for the month of October, by increases in hotels and motels and restaurants. Those were our strongest sector for that period.
 Water and sewer, water and sewer usage is up 4%, or excuse me, 9% for water usage. We had a lot of water usage early in the year. Obviously that's tapered off as we're getting a little more moisture. Sewer services are up roughly 5%. So total build revenue is up at this point in time, six and a half to 7% for the water and sewer fund. We do have some bad debt,
 write offs but all in all revenues are up build revenues are up for water and sewer recycling trash collections remember we were lagging most of the year there were starting to flatten out and hit the revenue estimates at this point in time so that's up just about nine percent point nine percent at this time roughly one percent essentially flat the budget airport airport fuel sales
 are showing strength again this year. They're up about 50% from what was anticipated at budget time. So we're doing very well in the airport sales, the usage, number of flights, et cetera has,
 slackened off a bit. We're pretty close to last year, but they're down a little bit, the number of flights out of there, but sales of aviation fuel is up roughly 50% to what was budgeted. All in all, it's a good report.
 very happy with the results at this point in time we're going to close out the year roughly i think where we had anticipate when we formulated the 2023 budget and i'll be happy to answer questions what questions do you have for paul on the finance support anything okay thank you paul thank you all right the next order of business is the concern number one approval of the november 15th 2022 city council meeting minutes
 Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of life-saving Baylife system firefighting equipment from the fire department from North America Fire Equipment Company, incorporated pursuant to a NPP-GOV co-operative purchasing contract in the amount of $82,915.58 plus any applicable tax and shipping charges. Number three, a resolution to approve an interlocal agreement
 for continuation of ambulance services through the Washington County Regional Ambulance Authority and to authorize the Ambulance Authority to operate Central Emergency Medical Service as the exclusive emergency and non-emergency ambulance service within the cities. Number four, a resolution to authorize the purchase of retaining wall blocks from industrial precast incorporated pursuant to resolution number 323-21
 and the amount of $88,217.05 for the Mission Boulevard Trail and to approve a budget adjustment. This is one of our trail improvement bond projects. Number five, a resolution to authorize the purchase of 90 light poles and fixtures for Premier Lighting Group pursuant
 TO RESOLUTION NUMBER 328-21, ANY AMOUNT OF $318,549.38 FOR THE MISSION BOULEVARD TRAIL AND TO APPROVE BUDGET ADJUSTMENT. THIS IS ALSO A TRAIL IMPROVEMENT BOND PROJECT. NUMBER 6, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE CHANGE ORDER NUMBER 1 TO THE ENERGY SAVINGS PERFORMANCE CONTRACT WITH JOHNSON CONTROLS, CORPORATED, ANY AMOUNT OF $407,185.00.
 for the installation of solar panel on the town center roof and to approve the budget adjustment contingent on approval of the repayment contract with advertising and promotion commission. Number seven, a resolution authorized Mayor Jordan to sign a contract with the federal advertising and promotion commission for the repayment of solar array installation costs at the federal town center and to authorize a change order in the city's
 energy savings performance contract with Johnson Controls Incorporated. Number eight, a resolution to authorize an application for a certified local government grant in the amount of $20,370 through the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program for historic contact statement for the University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhoods and historic district commission training.
 WITH A CITY MATCH OF $5,000 AND TO APPROVE THE BUDGET ADJUSTMENT CONTINGENT UPON APPROVAL OF THE GRANT. NUMBER NINE, A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE BUDGET ADJUSTMENT IN THE AMOUNT OF $180,000 FOR INCREASED UTILITY COSTS. NUMBER TEN, A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZED BY MAYOR JORDAN TO SIGN AN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CONTRACT WITH SOUTH CATO SPRINGS HOLDINGS
 LLC to accept and approve an economic impact analysis of the project from the Arkansas Economic Development Institute to prove the use of three million four hundred and eighty thousand dollars of economic development and Street funds for the project to authorize mayor Jordan signing Grand agreement with US Department of Housing and Urban Development and accept three million dollars community project fund award and to move budget just number 11 a
 A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE AMENDMENT NUMBER 14 TO THE AGREEMENT FOR OPERATIONS, MAINTENANCE, AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES BETWEEN THE CITY OF FEDERAL ARKANSAS AND CH2 M HILL ENGINEERS INCORPORATED IN THE AMOUNT OF $8,012,791 FOR SERVICES IN 2023 AND TO APPROVE A PROJECT CONTINUING TO SEE IN THE AMOUNT OF $380,735.55.
 Number 12, a resolution to approve number one to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Olson Incorporated in the amount of $7,500 for additional engineering services related to the Markham Hill Elevated Water Storage Tank Rehabilitation Project. Number 13, a resolution pursuant to 39.10C4 of the Federal City Code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of
 $5,682.50 to Franklin Everett's Froyer. Water main break damage at 11 West South Street. Number 14, a resolution pursuant to 39.10C4 of the Federal City Code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of $20,598.00
 and 34 cents to clean cut lawn care on behalf of William Bradley for water main break damage at 1738 West Pratt Drive. Number 15, a resolution to approve the conveyance of easements to the city of Greenland across portions of the city of federal property located west of Drake Field for the installation of sewer lines.
 Number 16, a resolution to approve reimbursement of the city's general fund of the remaining calculated American Rescue Plan grant to offset revenue loss incurred in 2021 in the amount of $5,095,114 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number 17, a resolution to approve task order number five with Garva LLC in the amount of $54,000 for design, bidding, and construction phase services associated with the wildlife fence rehabilitation project, Drakefield, to approve project contingency in the amount of $5,400 and to approve budget adjustment.
 number 18 resolution to approve a 30-year ground lease agreement with terra firma project llc for airport property located in the east side of on the east side of drake
 Side of Drakefield off taxiway for the construction of a 100 by 100 foot hanger with an option to extend the ground lease for an additional 10 year term. Number 19 resolution to approve the city of Johnson's rezoning that's property described rezoning petition 2022-21 for approximately 10 acres land.
 located east of South Ball Street, a agricultural to LI line industrial. And number 20, a resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the Federal City Council concerning public comments. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to accept the consent agenda as read. Chair, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Canyon, Whittaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Under unfinished business,
 ordinance to amend 51.136 monthly water rates and 51.137 monthly sewer rates. To change water and sewer rates is recommended by the cost of service study conducted by Black and Beach.
 Paul. I have that one. This is carried forward. This was tabled to this meeting earlier in the year. And at this point in time we're still working on getting a contract with Farmington.
 Based on that, then we have to go through Black and Veatch, see what the new numbers will look like based on our farm and contract. We still have to go through the Water and Sewer Committee. So I'm requesting that we table this particular item to the March 7th meeting of 2023. That'll give us time to negotiate, finish negotiations on a contract, take it to the Water and Sewer Committee and bring it back to you for your consideration.
 Okay, there's one thing. This was left on the first reading. Does the council wish to advance it to the second reading? Yeah, the council can table it even before I would read it for the second reading. Otherwise, I will read it. Okay. I move that we table it. Second. Okay, thank you all. And that is to the March date, right? Yes, to the March date. All right. Any discussion on the item at all? All right.
 Here would you please call the rough? Paul could you please repeat which meeting in March the first I can I like to do the first meeting in March Which is March 7th? Okay We have a motion in a second. Please. Please. Call the roger Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes Indian we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to amend 118.01, applicability of the Federal City Code and 151.01 definitions and 163.01.
 1 8 short-term rentals the unified Development code to remove the conditional use permit requirement for type 2 short-term rentals and to repeal the sunset provision this was left on the third reading and then it was sent to the ordinance review committee Jonathan do you have anything you want to start with I?
 i do mayor thank you jonathan kurtz with the development services department i wanted to provide a brief update for those that weren't able to attend agenda session and i'd like to hand it off to mr williams from the city attorney's office to discuss kind of the procedure moving forward
 After two evenings or afternoons at the ordinance review committee, what came out of that group was a kind of two-part proposal. One is to extend the sunset provision for the short-term rental ordinance. As it's written and as Mr. Williams is going to describe for you all in a moment, the ordinance
 That's to extend it for 12 months, as it's currently written. The second piece, which will come forward to y'all's December 20th meeting, is a much more involved, detailed proposal from the Ordinance Review Committee, which includes several other changes that, of course, we'll go into in much more detail at the December 20th meeting. But otherwise, again, I'm happy to hand it off to Mr. Williams. Thank you.
 Thank you, Jonathan. The reason we need to amend this to just a sunset clause extension is because otherwise the current sunset clause might be activated before this ordinance becomes effective. So we need to handle this individually with an emergency clause so that we can extend the sunset clause and we won't have everything get repealed automatically.
 So there is an ordinance that I handed out to you all and have given to you before. But this is an ordinance I'm going to need to read. So before you vote to amend to this, let me go ahead and read it and put it what would be on the first reading if you decide to go ahead and amend it. That way you'll be knowing exactly what you're voting for.
 and this is an ordinance to amend section 2 of the ordinance 6427 to extend the sunset provision for short-term rental regulations to december 31st 2023 and to declare an emergency
 Whereas the sunset clause in Ordinance 6427, which was passed on April 20th, 2021, provides that the ordinance and all amendments to code sections ordained and enacted by this ordinance shall automatically sunset, be repealed, terminate, and become void 20 months after the passage and approval of this ordinance.
 unless prior to that date the City Council amends this ordinance to repeal the sunset, repeal, and termination section, and whereas City Council recommends extending the sunset date to allow for consideration of amendments to City short-term rental regulations and to allow continued operation of short-term rentals for a one-year period, now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby determines that section 2 of ordinance 6427 the sunset clause be amended so that ordinance 6427 and all amendments to code sections ordained or enacted by ordinance 6427 shall automatically sunset be repealed become void on december 31st 2023 unless prior to that date the city council amends this ordinance to repeal or further amend this sunset repeal and termination section
 In Section 2, the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-October, by determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because allowing the City's short-term rental regulations to expire will likely lead to unregulated and illegal operation of short-term rentals not subject to the City's life safety standards and insurance requirements, such that an extension of the sunset clause is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents.
 Therefore the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such as this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon his passage and approval And I would ask that there be a motion to amend the current ordinance that was before you to that what I just read So moved second Okay, we have motion second to amend what the city attorney has drawn up to what we have here so any discussion here, which please call roll and
 Harvey yes Jones. I'm so sorry. Yes Kenyon Whitaker yes Scroggins yes, but yes Yes Hertzberg yes now understand the only action we're gonna take tonight is to extend sunset clause All the other regulations are proposed are going to be handled in in the next meeting, okay, so
 Okay, so what we need to do now what that would let's pretend that was the first reading Let's go on to the second third readings and then the emergency clause we get this passed tonight Okay
 At what point can we have a discussion? We can I think we need to have the discussion if Whatever y'all won't talk about because I need to take I want to take some public input tonight So we need to figure that all in with whatever we're exactly doing here Well, well if you'd like to of course you have public comment a pound, but it really won't be on the sunset clause I think it'll probably be on what Jonathan and the committee has been working on. Okay. Okay. All right I'm gonna make sure that's all clear
 So we have a motion. Well you don't, you can have public discussion right now. We just amended the ordinance. Alright, well let's have some discussion. Unfortunately I was not able to attend the ordinance review meetings, but I did read the notes.
 I'm concerned that extending it a year is a very long time and I would like to amend this to where it is six months or it's extended to six months. So that would be at the end of June. My rationale is that I'd really like us to get moving on this and get some of these gaping holes in our current system fixed.
 filled sooner rather than than later. So I'm moving to amend this to June 30th, 2023. Okay, let me make sure I understand. So what we have before us, you want to amend that to six months instead of a year? That's correct, Mayor. And then we- Choose an actual date, that's a lot better. June 30th, 2023.
 right whatever you all decide uh do we have a second on that second no we have a motion in the second to make it six months instead of a year what discussion would we like to have on that i would like to know how we came up with a year to begin with i think that's a really valid question and why we need to if the ordinance review committee came up with a year then why are we
 Why are we trying to change it? Somebody help me out here. And me. I believe that I proposed a year and the logic was simply that
 The sunset clause is unrelated to any of the other regulations. It doesn't prevent us from adopting them. It doesn't force us to adopt them. It simply is the sunset clause that eliminates all of this legislation. And I didn't want to go two or three months at a time and have to continually deal with that sunset because
 Even if we pass everything to our satisfaction, two months from now, we'll still need to deal with the sunset clause before 2023 ends to be able to keep the regulations in place. And at that time, perhaps we can push it out much, much further. So that was the logic behind it.
 Okay, so the sunset clause is not related to the other changes? No. No. No. It's continuing on. Okay. What the sunset clause do by moving it out, it allows you to change any regulations until you hit to that sunset time. Yeah. So if the city council is comfortable with all the changes you want to make in March, then part of that ordinance would be to remove the sunset clause.
 So it's not like you can't do anything until the year has gone by. It just gives you a year and then when you finally have decided this is what you want, then you can repeal the sunset clause at that time. So if we want to change, if we want to make five modifications, and we make those five modifications in the next two months, but then we realize, oh we missed something,
 And we need to go back and make another modification. We don't have to worry about the sunset clause then if we get that done. It gives you a little bit more leeway to fine-tune the ordinance. Okay. But it does not mean that we won't be trying to fine-tune the ordinance. Okay. All right. That's all? No. Thank you.
 My concern is that if we extend it out a year, that that kind of takes the heat off of us. We have a lot of things going on, and I would rather put this close to the top of our priorities. We're losing tax revenue. We have...
 an estimated half of our short-term rentals are unlicensed, I think that's a serious problem. So I would like to make sure that we keep that at the forefront and by doing so, I think six months is an adequate time period. I think one year is a long time period. And if we get to the point where we have a couple of hiccups, we can always change the emergent, we can always extend it later, but I would still like for us to make it a serious priority.
 So that's that's my rationale. Thank you. Okay, so we have Sorry, I think my only response would be we can definitely make this a priority with With the year and I I feel very similar to you I think that we need to get this done and get everything worked out We did talk about on the ordinance review committee already sending it back To look at it again after December 20th. So I want to be looking at this quite a lot
 Okay, so what's on the table is an amendment to the ordinance to do six months instead of a year. Yeah, so June 30th instead of December 31st. Okay. Any other discussion on this before we vote? Okay. Yes, Karen. We haven't received a second. Oh, I thought we did. Thank you, DeAndre. I did. Okay. If there's not any other discussion, Karen, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 Weedeker? No. Scroggin? No. Bunch? No. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? No. Okay. Okay, that was an amendment. There were seven council members here, but actually, Mayor, you're on the council too, so it requires five votes to pass that tabling out of eight. So you get to decide whether you want to vote or not.
 So if I vote yes, then it will be six months? Well, yes. Then it would be tabled to June 30th instead of December 31st. I'm going to vote no. All right. It remains at December 31st then. Okay. Now, what other discussion do we have on this, on the sunset clause that we've left in place for a year? Anything? Okay. Then let's take some public comment. If I just one turn to speak, you have a five-minute duration. Okay.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, which is the sunset clause for a year. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that. So who would like to address us on this, the sunset clause? Okay. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, ma'am. Okay. So I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is on the...
 first reading okay so what's the wishes of the council or what discussion with the council like that I mean if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we have a motion saying we go to the second read here which please call her RV yes Jones yes we'd occur yes Scroggins yes yes
 perry yes arts firm yes and your order's demand section two of ordinance 6427 to extend the sunset provision for the short-term rental regulation to december 31st 2023 and to declare an emergency maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second i have motion to second to go third and final reading care which please call the road barbie yes downs yes wedeker yes
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. In Ordinance of Men, Section 2 of Ordinance 6427 to extend the sunset provision for short-term rental regulations to December 31, 2023 and to declare an emergency. Okay. Any final comments from the council on the sunset clause?
 I really appreciate the council members for working on this. I wasn't able to be as active and present as I would have liked to have been, but I really appreciate all of you for working hard on this because this has been something that has been complicated. So thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay. Caravage Police College. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And now mayor, we need a motion to pass the emergency clause. All right. So moved. Second. Yeah. Motion second pass the emergency clause. Kevin, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. So the emergency clause passed and so this will be immediately effective upon the mayor's signature. I want to thank ordinance review as well for taking this issue up. I know it's a, it's an issue, but thank you all for doing that. So we'll be moving it along. All right. Number three.
 A resolution to grant the appeal of Council Member Sarah Bunch, Teresa Turk, Sloan Scroggins to deny conditional use permit CUP 2022-039 for a cluster housing development for property located at 2992 North Oak Bailey Drive, Ward 3, and to deny a variance of $1,000.
 to 164.22 of the Unified Development Code to exceed the maximum number of dwelling units permitted. OK. Mayor, I should note that there has been a lot of discussion and work on this. And I think the developer and the neighborhood came to some pretty good conclusions. And that was explained, I think, by Jonathan already.
 I have redrafted the resolution to mirror all those conclusions and we're going to need to amend the current resolution which didn't have conditions in it or anything very well. So to do that, I've handed that out to you all already, but so the public knows what we're doing, I think I probably should read the proposed new amended resolution for your consideration.
 A resolution to grant the appeal of Councilmember Sarah Bunch, Theresa Turk and Sloan Scroggin to approve and approve Conditional Use Permit CUP 2022-039 for Cluster Housing Development for property located at 2992 North Oak Bailey Drive in Ward 3.
 along with variance to section 164.22 of the Unified Development Code to exceed the maximum number of dwelling units permitted subject to certain conditions.
 Whereas on August 22, 2022, the Planning Commission approved Condition of Use Permit CUP 2022-039 for proposed cluster housing development on property located at 2992 North Oak Bailey Drive and also granted a variance to Section 164.22 of the Unified Development Code, which provides for a maximum number of dwelling units in cluster housing developments to 12.
 and whereas council members sarah bunch theresa turk and mark kenyon have properly appealed the decision of the planning commission pursuant to section 155.05 a3 of the unified development code now the airport be resolved by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas
 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby approves conditional use permit cup dash 2022-039 for proposed cluster housing development subject to conditions in section 3.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby approves a variance to Section 164.22D of the Unified Development Code to allow 18 dwelling units in development subject to conditions in Section 3.
 And Section 3 states, approval of the conditional use permit and variance are subject to the following conditions, which must be accomplished by the owner, applicant, or developer prior to receiving any certificate of occupation. The City Council has determined the compatibility of the conditional use permit and variance for the proposed project based upon the owner-applicant's satisfactory accomplishment of all of the following requirements. Number one.
 Shrubs and trees approved by the City Forester may be planted, must be planted, or preserved along the north, south, and west property line in the form of a vegetative screen. The screening trees may include any required mitigation trees.
 At a minimum, additional screening in the form of vegetation, hedgerow or low-lying fence not to exceed 48 inches in height shall be installed along property lines where parking courts and driveways abut existing single-family residences. Number two, approval of the Conditional Use Permit does not ensure approval of the development application.
 The conditional use permit grants the owner-applicant the right to submit a development proposal based upon the conceptual layout presented to the City Council. However, the owner-applicant must still comply with all other development requirements, including but not limited to tree preservation, drainage, utility installation, and fire department access. These details shall be reviewed with the development application.
 The final project design shall follow the general layout and design of the conditional use concept plat. Number three, a condominium association, homeowners association, or similar mechanism to maintain the common amenities shall be established prior to issuance of construction permits. The City of Fayetteville does not enforce these private agreements, but will require that this agreement be in place prior to issuing building permits.
 Prior to number four, prior to receiving a certificate of luxury for the first home, all shared drives, sidewalks and bike racks shall be installed. All development requirements such as detention facilities, utilities, required landscaping, etc. shall be installed prior to any building permits being issued.
 The exact phasing of improvements will be determined at development review. Number five, the maximum number of unrelated persons in any dwelling unit is three pursuant to the underlying single-family zoning district.
 6. Per Unified Development Code Section 166.20, expiration of approved plans and permits. A conditional use permit approval is valid for one year. 7. An exterior lighting package must be provided to the Planning Division prior to the development permit approval. Common area lighting shall comply with Unified Development Code Section 176, outdoor lighting. 8. 9.
 provided consent is obtained from the property owners of washington county partial 76 dash 319720 triple zero and 76 dash three one nine seven three triple zero and seventy six dash three one nine seven four triple zero for grading within a five foot property line during construction of the project a permanent shallow wet swell excuse me swale
 shall be installed just north of the property lines of these parcels. Number nine, a pedestrian pathway shall be installed connecting the proposed internal pedestrian circulation system to Old Wire Road. The pedestrian pathway will connect the proposed internal pedestrian circulation system between proposed lots 13 and 14. The pathway may be located on the east or west side of the existing detention pond.
 The pathway may be primitive. Steps in the pathway will be required at the north and south connection points. And number 10, at least 7 of the 12 significant trees on the property shall be preserved.
 So at this point, this is what I think was agreed between the developer and the neighborhood. And so I would ask someone to move to amend to what I just read in place of the current ordinance that was originally given out. Mr. Mayor, I'm sorry, as a quick point of clarification, this doesn't necessarily reflect what the neighborhood wants. The question that came out of the last council meeting was that y'all basically, the city council was working with three different sets of conditions.
 which was a source of some confusion. There was what the planning commission had approved the project with. There was what the applicant had put forward, and there was what the neighborhood had put forward in response to that.
 When the applicant and the request from council was to make sure that we're all working off the same set of conditions in considering the request. And so when staff met the applicant last week in the lead up to agenda session, these are the conditions that they put forward that they are willing to offer. I think the neighbors will need to speak to whether they, if this satisfies their concerns or not. So I just want to make sure that was clear.
 That's absolutely correct. Not every condition that the neighborhood wanted could be approved because one of them, as you know, required the city to build a very expensive sidewalk connection. So these are the ones that I think the applicant has agreed to do and covers many of the things that the neighborhood wanted, but probably not 100 percent of them. But I'll let them speak for themselves. So moved. Second. Second. Okay.
 to make good with the amendment all right I guess care would you please call the roll second on the amendment Harvey yes Jones yes we did her yes Scroggins yes bench yes her yes Hertzberg yes okay now we have the amended ordinance I'm sorry miss book it is a resolution I'm sorry that is all right
 Well, what discussion would you like to have on all of this? I would like to just commend the neighbors and everyone for everything that they've done so far. Are we discussing the amendment or the fully amended resolution? Well, we haven't voted on the full amended resolution yet. Yeah, the resolution has been fully amended, but has not been voted on.
 So on the whole package, I just want to commend everyone for coming together and listening and talking and discussing. That's all I have right now. Okay. So when you all are through discussing it, I will get some public comments. Okay. Let's go to public comments. All right. If you all are ready for that, we'll do that. All right. And Mayor, with that in mind, Brian Teague is available as the applicant for this item.
 If the council would like to hear from them. You know what? We probably need to hear from the applicant and then from the public. Thanks, Jonathan. Would the applicant like to speak for the council on the amended resolution? Thank you, Mayor, City Council. I'm Brian Teague representing the development group.
 I want to be cognizant of your time. This should take me about five minutes to communicate this. But I think it's very important to reiterate or emphasize some of the points we've tried to make in previous meetings regarding our great city plan. The city plan is the voice of thousands of Fayetteville citizens who contributed to the plan through public input.
 The city plan has won multiple planning awards on a state and national level, primarily for its extraordinary public input. The big takeaway from the public input being that as a city, we want to protect our farms and forests on the edge of town by discouraging suburban sprawl and accommodate new growth for a population that's projected to more than double in 30 years with compact and walkable development.
 Currently, the currently adopted city plan I think is a drastic change to the way we built our city in the 50 or so years prior to its adoption. We're about 16 years into its implementation. It's likely required thousands of changes to city government policy. One of the most applicable here tonight is the cluster development ordinance.
 With it, slightly higher density becomes possible while maintaining compatibility with existing neighborhoods throughout the use of a single family house type. The slightly higher density is one of the most important or core elements of meeting the city plan goals of discouraging suburban sprawl. Over the years, I've requested development approval of 13 separate cluster developments with densities ranging from 6 to 14 houses per acre.
 This project is at the bottom end of that spectrum at six and two-thirds houses per acre. By building densities closer to eight units per acre, we are making it more possible to walk and use alternative forms of transportation. But possibly even more important are very significant environmental and economic benefits to the city. The environmental benefit comes from impacting less land,
 Our population is projected to double in 30 years. If we build less houses here, they will be built somewhere else in the city. I think we're missing the forest for the trees and not appreciating the larger problem to suggest it's better for the environment to build less houses in this situation. The economic benefits come from building a density that the tax base within the project will be able to maintain its infrastructure for years to come.
 Numerous studies show that at a lesser density, maintaining the infrastructure typically becomes dependent on a tax base in other parts of the city. I feel like it's a responsibility as a designer to propose a certain density threshold, I think in an amenable way. It's a responsibility to our city plan.
 By proposing this project, I want the City Council to understand that we feel strongly that we are doing what the city plan has asked for us to do. We understand that it is change and we have gone to significant effort to make that change amenable to the neighbors. We have a long list of items that the neighbors have requested of us and we have agreed to do nearly all of them.
 Even though it goes against some of the core elements of the city plan, we have reduced our density well below what is allowed. But to reduce the density further will significantly jeopardize the project's financial feasibility. We ask that you please vote tonight. We respectfully ask the City Council to support the city plan, support your planning staff's recommendation,
 to support your planning commissionals planning commission approval of this project and either deny the appeal outright or approve the amended conditions as presented by staff i did have one housekeeping item i wanted to mention on the amended conditions um our item number 10
 At least seven of the twelve significant trees on the property shall be preserved. Originally we had suggested that that read to remain. A couple of the trees are in or very near a utility easement, so technically they would not be able to be counted as preserved. And that's why
 If possible, we would like to change that language for the trees to remain. Other than that, I finished. Thank you. Let me know if you have any questions. You'll have about five minutes left. Okay, thank you guys. Mike Parker. I live at 4457 Peso Fino Way.
 here in Fayetteville or just outside of Fayetteville actually. As uncomfortable as it is for me to speak in public, I just hate it. But I felt compelled to make a few points. Hang on just a minute. Are you with the developer? Okay. If I could have enough time to make a few points, I would appreciate it. I know y'all have allowed that. To some of the neighbors, you know. So, you know, on a positive note,
 i thought i should a lot of the folks here on the council probably don't know the past of how we got to this and why we are here doing this i bought this property almost six years ago that's how long i've been working on trying to get something started here uh y'all probably don't know this but
 I identified a need of small, nice, new houses in a good area a long time ago. My dad passed away. My mom was in a 3,500-square-foot home over here in Rolling Hills, and I couldn't find her a nice, smaller home that was a good place to live. And I thought, okay, they came to me to buy this property. I thought, I could do a tiny home development, nice new homes, great. I hired an architect.
 had this almost all approved through planning when at very last meeting, it was a tech meeting or a pre-con meeting, one of the planners said, by the way, our 2020 road plan goes right to the middle of this. We're not going to be able to do it. We're like four months into this and 36,000 in engineering. I wish somebody would have told me that to start with. So I scrapped, parked this plan,
 These homes were 400, 600, 800, and 1,000 square feet. One of the neighbors was complaining about these being 1650 with a garage. Now, they were going to be really nice, but they were small, and they had just as much outside covered living area as they had inside. It's a neat design, but there is a need for something like that. I'll do that somewhere else.
 But so I thought, okay, I'll just develop the seven lots on the exterior. Of course, that road plan was turned down and never going to happen. That was rolling hills to crossover. So I thought, well, that'll be easy. We'd like to build a road on the exterior here for seven lots. Wrong. Three years and 550,000 in infrastructure. I divided those seven lots off, sold them 75 to 78,000 per lot.
 not counting the land costs, so you can see how upside down, that detention pond, which is for this development, that's what everybody said, well, you're saving graces. You did all this infrastructure for this back property, the development that was before you tonight. Right.
 $260,000 in that detention pond. It's got different layers and filters. It's an 80-page engineering study on that. It meant the water drainage for this whole thing. $225,000 to run sewer in on a city property. The city doesn't have sewer there.
 I paid for all that. I buried a $60,000 contact water filtration system on the corner of Oak Bailey and Old Wire. Now, I said, what's that for? They said, well, that filters the ditch water that's not filtered before it or after it. Just imagine if you're me and that's Fayetteville's water quality. You're burying $60,001 bills in the ground for no reason.
 But I did all these things.
 And I just couldn't go back and do this again on this back. So I sold the property to myself, Jeff Martin and Max Parker. They came up with this way better plan than my nine tiny homes. And then we've tried to be good neighbors and really been over backwards. I don't know of any developers that have worked with neighbors with meetings. And, you know, they've come before you with all kinds of restrictions on for us. We're the ones investing millions and millions and millions of dollars in a year to do this.
 housing development in Fayetteville that our Fayetteville Planning Commission overwhelmingly approved and it meets all of those six values and goals that are on the board behind us. I mean this this is a good thing. This is way better than the plan I had. So I'm asking y'all tonight
 to uphold the Fayetteville Planning Commission's approval and deny this appeal. I've had neighbors calling me like, this was sent out to the neighbors. And they said, one of the neighbors is against this. They stirring everybody up against it. We had a half dozen neighbors talk against this. We saw like water going on their patio. Well, I want y'all to know we had nothing to do with building those homes.
 or that final grade, we're actually helping their drainage and don't have to do that for what Fayetteville planning told us we had to do, but we're trying to be good neighbors here. They have zero restrictions on their property, no covenants, no bill of assurance, no homeowners association, no property owners association, yet they're dictating like 15 points for us to do. So just ask y'all to...
 do the right thing here and get us going. Time. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Okay. Now, we'll hear from the public. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the Chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that. Who would like to be first?
 Good evening. My name is Nick Werner. I live at 2979 North Old Wire Road, directly in front of the proposed development here. The neighbors, like we said last time, do support the amended resolution to approve the conditional use permit with the conditions that are listed. However, as Jonathan noted, I do think there are a few things that were in our proposed conditions that weren't reflected in this amendment. Okay.
 I think the most important one of all the things we've talked about is the water runoff. And we saw flooding from Mr. Johnson's property this last time. In condition number 8 that's listed there, the one property that is not included of the four houses in front of this proposal is Mr. Johnson's property. So I'd like to see an amendment to this amended resolution to include his property to be behind that swale so we can mitigate as much of this runoff as possible.
 While it may not be the developer's fault that the water runoff is happening, they do have an opportunity to mitigate it amongst all of the changes they're making to that land right now. We still believe that the density for the houses is too high, given that compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is one of the chief concerns of the conditional use permit for cluster home developments. Okay.
 THE REALITY IS THAT THE NEIGHBORHOOD AS IT EXISTS TODAY IS RSF4. IT'S ABIDING PRETTY STRICTLY TO THAT RSF4. AND DOUBLING THE DENSITY PROVIDES FOR SMALLER HOMES AT A PRICE THAT'S SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER THAN THE HOUSES THAT ARE ALREADY IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD. IT DOESN'T BRING AFFORDABLE HOUSING. IT BRINGS HOUSING THAT COULD BE AFFORDABLE IF EVERYONE WAS RICH THAT BOUGHT THE HOUSES. SO WE WOULD ASK THAT THE DENSITY VARIANCE BE DENIED AND EFFECTIVELY CAP THEM AT 12 HOUSES, WHICH IS WHAT THE CODE TODAY ALLOWS FOR.
 It's double the density up to 12 maximum. So we'd like that to be upheld. The other conditions we'd like to change are number nine, so that we have an ADA compliant pathway or sidewalk, whatever the technical term there is. That staircase, as far as I believe, as far as I am aware, would not be ADA compliant. I don't think that serves the city very well.
 And then finally, one of the conditions that wasn't included from our list was that the sidewalk be completed from old wire road around the corner of oak bailey. That's around a single property and I think with the pathway coming out of the community, it provides a walkway or a circuit for those neighbors to walk. Otherwise you're going to come out of that sidewalk. You're going to try to go to the left to.
 ditch because that that part of the sidewalk to connect to the Akaska Trail was too expensive and you're going to go to the right And you're going to get stare at Mr.. Johnson's front door, which is a beautiful front door his fiance decorates that very nicely But it's not much of a place to walk to and those are the only changes we're asking for thank you Thank you. Who else would like to address? I
 Good evening. It's nice to be here with you all again, and especially early in the evening again. My name is Dr. Mary Beth Sayre. I live at 2983 North Old Wire Road, and my property is the one where all the drainage comes to.
 So I am particularly anxious that all of the properties that are currently along O'Hare Road and Park Commons be included so that all of them will drain into the retainment basin rather than draining down through my property, as is currently the case.
 And I appreciate the fact that building a swale to take all of the drainage from this property into the retainment basin without parsing out what's extra drainage from what we've got right now versus trying to get all of the drainage into the retainment basin. And I really hope that we will be able to do that.
 The second thing that Nick has already mentioned is the sidewalks we think need to be ADA compliant, having steps.
 getting from their property to the current sidewalk is not at all ADA compliant and really there should be ramps. So we're asking that the sidewalks be ADA compliant and we would indeed like the sidewalk from that ends
 at the corner property on oak bailey and old wire be included so that the sidewalk goes from the park common sidewalk and around the corner this would give a circuit
 for the current neighbors and the people in this development to be able to walk from the development to Old Wire Road up to Oak Bailey and up along Oak Bailey and back into the development. So there would be a circuit that could be walked
 But that does mean that that corner lot would need to have sidewalks around it. And the sidewalks, we think, should be ADA compliant. Those are two major concerns that I've been talking to you about, and they're still there. So I hope you will consider amending these amendments that you've got.
 so that those two things will happen. And again, I thank you for all the interest that you all have shown and particularly the staff working hard to get these conditions developed. And we appreciate that, but we just like those changes. So thank you very much for your consideration. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay.
 Hello, my name is Erica Matthews. I'm at 3053 Queen Court and I'm one of the neighbors. It's good to see you guys all again. I'll miss our little get togethers.
 I'm going to reiterate some of what the other neighbors have already talked about, and that's that we overwhelmingly appreciate the developers working with us thus far. But it does remain that most of us, all of us neighbors that I've talked to at least, do contest the density being as high as it is.
 And the primary reason that I feel so strongly about this is because the primary issue right now that a lot of the neighbors are having has to do with flooding. And the density directly is connected, we increase in density is directly connected with higher amounts of pavement and increasing the flooding. I don't expect the developers to necessarily mitigate the flood, but I do, the flooding that is, but I do think that it's reasonable to ask that it is not exacerbated by the development of the property. And I do think that at present,
 with the amount of pavement that would be going in with that high of a density, flooding will necessarily be exacerbated. Already the retention pond, the detention pond rather, cannot handle the amount of water that's coming down the side of that hill. So I don't think that it's unreasonable to request that.
 Further, I think that that is in line with Fayetteville's goal, with the city's goal of being environmentally conscious and at the same time respecting adjacent communities. I think that's perfectly in line. I think that 12 homes still does increase the amount of housing for people who may be
 Migrating to the city and need places to stay. I think decreasing it to 12 still meets a lot of that need without necessarily making the lives of all the adjacent community members significantly more difficult and potentially putting their homes at risk.
 Finally, I think that the nature of the drainage can cause not just harm to adjacent homes, but to adjacent ecosystems as well. The flooding that goes through the drainage pond is filtered and that's awesome.
 But when the retention pond can't handle the flooding, it doesn't get filtered. And so it's just unmitigated flooding that flows into adjacent wetlands and important areas to our green spaces here in Fayetteville and it can wreak havoc. So I do sort of echo the sentiment of my neighbors here and sort of echo their sentiment on what your move should be tonight. So thank you so much for hearing me out. Thank you. Anybody else like to address us on this?
 Good evening, Mayor and Councilman Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. I've said this a few times in the past. This is a proposal for single-family homes in a single-family home neighborhood. There's talk about compatibility, and that's usually what we get hung up on a lot of these things. People just can't be incompatible with other people in the city. That can't be the justification we use. Okay.
 This is as thoughtful a plan for necessary homes as I think I've ever seen to work in the necessary density to handle a growing population. It's appropriate. It has addressed most of the issues. I know there's always going to be concerns about floodwaters, but our stormwater management codes require that this development not increase the flow at the edge of the property.
 whether or not they mitigate existing problems, they're not allowed to exacerbate it. If you don't believe that our codes are good enough to hold the developers to that, you all need to fix the codes. That's on you. They can only be held to the codes that are on the books. And that's what we say we expect, and until somebody proposes otherwise, I trust that you all will agree with that.
 It was said that these will be smaller homes that are more expensive than the ones that are already there. And that's probably true. These will be new construction. The ones that are already there will be old construction. New things tend to be more expensive, especially with inflation. But we will not get more affordable housing by building fewer houses. It's just not going to happen that way.
 And so I would encourage you to deny the appeal tonight and let the density stand as the Planning Commission suggested. Barring that, I think you've come up with a fantastic compromise that addresses most of the issues and still manages to fit in some much needed homes in an area that has some space for them. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I'm Sherry Carden. I live at 2913 North Old Wire Road. I want to reiterate everything that all the rest of my neighbors have said. The one last thing that I would like to say is that you talk about having a barrier on three sides. What about on the east side, which faces my property? So I was wondering if there's going to be some kind of...
 Fencing or I don't know what more trees planted. What's going to what's going to help put a barrier there between my property, which is to the east and this development. The other last thing I'd like to say is that I do hope that we don't have to have 18 houses. We could lower it to a more reasonable number. Thank you. Thank you. We also like to address this.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have an amended resolution. Yes, Sean. I do want to hit a couple of those items. I think the ADA sidewalk is one of those things that initially sounds like a great idea. It seems weird to argue against it, but this property is sloped in such a way and then ramps have to be sloped in such a way to make them ADA compliant.
 You know, I've designed ramps for people that wanted ADA compliant coming out of their house and they're only talking this much slope. And I'm like, well, you're going to be 45 feet that way before you can land.
 So I think with the slope on this, that's just impractical. You would literally zigzag a sidewalk all the way across this all the way down. So I do think that's not going to work.
 I'm glad to see the swell. That was basically the first thing I asked is to make sure that we do better on the flooding than just it's not worse. The neighborhood brought pictures of flooding, which
 I almost don't suggest neighborhoods do that because if the law is you don't have to make it any better than it was and people present to us how bad it is, then that actually helps the developer if they ever do have some flooding because then they just put evidence of a prior flooding.
 I'm glad to see that we are doing better. I hope the city can continue to do that. I know that we have infill dollars. Hopefully we start using those on cost sharing where when we add houses, that the houses that are flooding below them already are better after the construction than before.
 And that's not just here. I hope that's something that we continue to do. On the density, there's so many people that wanna move here that can't. We have this weird,
 I know a lot of people think only Ward 1 is gentrifying, but Ward 3 is gentrifying too. It's gentrifying in a different way. Ward 1, there was a house and now it's not there anymore. Ward 3, what's happening is there's a house there that had 80s carpet and 80s walls, and somebody could buy it and live there. Well, now they can't because the people that do have the money to buy a $500,000, $600,000 house,
 are just buying a flipped house. And so the gentrification is happening. And you can definitely see it, you know, two, three years ago, drive through these neighborhoods and it was just dumpster, dumpster, dumpster, dumpster. And those were all affordable housings that are going away. And so by providing the houses that people that can buy a $400,000, $500,000 house, if they buy a new one, then they're not basically...
 encouraging a flipper to tear apart what is affordable housing. So I think the 18 is good. They originally asked for 19. We went down. So I think we should stay at 18. There's such a need for housing. And I think you could do 40 houses there right, or you could do four houses wrong.
 and actually make the flooding worse. I don't think it's the numbers, I think it's how you do it. And I'm really hoping that Swell makes up for well, the flooding that's happening now. And if we do go down to 12, then maybe this project isn't financially feasible and then the developers are just gonna sit on it for four or five years and the flooding that's happening now will just continue.
 until another city council will look at this again. So I think this is a reasonable proposal. There was some suggestions about finishing the sidewalk, I think more, not all the way to crossover, but the other side. So I'd like to hear what some of the other council members say about that, but I know we're not gonna finish sidewalks if we cut density. There's just not gonna be any money in the project. Thank you. I have a question for Jonathan.
 Is that pedestrian pathway in the public right-of-way?
 just to make sure I'm talking about the same ones that you're asking about are you referencing what's discussed in condition number nine the pedestrian pathway yes no as it's described it would actually run on one side or the other of the existing drainage or the existing detention pond which I think gets back to councilmember Scroggins point that there's an obstruction in the way that makes the feasibility of a DA accessibility fairly limited
 Any connection that would be ADA accessible would need to go out to Oak Bailey. Thank you. Anything else? Jonathan, on the size of this property, what would be, you know, based on a cluster housing project, what would be the maximum number of homes that they could put on this without applying for conditional use or anything like that?
 A conditional use permit is required regardless of the number of units with what's being considered. The underlying zoning district is what drives that consideration. And RSF4, any cluster housing anywhere, an RSF4 requires a conditional use permit. I think the variability here is that the size of the property and the way it's laid out afforded the developer one of two options they could use.
 try to develop it in two separate cluster housing developments of taking this example, the numbers we have nine and nine units, but they would be effectively separate and have some duplicative access and things like that. Or they could develop it as a whole and seek a variance. And that's what went before the planning commission, which staff was in favor of in the planning commission ultimately approved.
 which is kind of a long-winded way of saying if the way the cluster housing ordinance is allowed, it lets you effectively double the number of units in the underlying dense, or double the density of their underlying zoning district.
 So I think that gets to the applicant's point, which right now you could build just shy of 11 units just with the RSF4 zoning district. But if you were to maximize the property as cluster housing could allow, you'd be looking at closer to 21 or 22 units. Okay. Thank you. What else?
 I'd like to hear a little bit more about how Mr. Johnson's property is not included in item number eight and that it would still be outside of that swell. Jonathan, do you have any information on that?
 I can touch on it and if the answer is not satisfactory, I may need to lean on our engineering group or the applicant themselves. And I think it is best explained looking at a topographic map, which I'll pull up here right now.
 There we go. The property in question, so if you're looking at condition number eight, which is the proposal for that swale, that condition includes three parcels today. Sorry, the map might jump on me here a little bit. So it's 2971, 2979, and 2983 North Oldwire, which if you're looking at the topography and the lay of the land of the cluster housing property in question.
 Some of that property does slope towards those. And I think in evaluating where a swale could have a use, Mr. Johnson's property was excluded since the properties draining to his yard are outside the scope of this cluster housing development. All right. Thank you for clarifying that. That's very helpful. Certainly. Okay. What else do we have? I guess I have some additional comments. Sure.
 I am still very concerned about the amount of concrete that's going to be placed in there. These have some pretty serious slopes. Sure, they're already experiencing water problems. Yes, in my opinion, our code is not up to snuff and it does need some work. I'd like to work on that for 2023. I still have some serious concerns about that.
 And this variance is for 18 houses when they can actually have 12. So I am just echoing my concern. We have water problems all over the city. We've got climate change. And I really think that this kind of density, even if we have more people living there, sure, we need more housing. But we don't need housing that...
 That's flooded whether it's outside or in the backyard We don't need that kind of thing We need to make sure that once a house is built that they don't have these kind of issues even in extreme storms So those are some of my concerns. Thank you So so my
 To address Teresa's comments, you know, when someone builds on a piece of property, they can't make existing flooding worse. They have to be, you know, very careful of that. And we already have flooding across a vacant piece of land. So not doing anything right now is not, I mean, that's still going to be there.
 And one of the lots that's flooding is flooding off of a piece of property that is technically not even part of this. So is that correct, Jonathan? The Johnson property, I believe, was the one that was flooding from the land that was not part of this parcel that we're looking at? Yes, that's the one I described a moment ago. Yes. I don't know. I mean, I feel like.
 We do need, I think we do need to work on our code, but we're always working on our codes. We're always trying to change things. Things are always being worked on as time goes by. And I don't, I feel like at this point, with this particular piece of property, with the code that we have and the amount of effort that's already gone into this, I think I am in support of this project. I think it's...
 We've basically wooled this around enough and it's at a point where we need to decide are we going to vote in favor of it or just turn it down. And, you know, I'm ready to go ahead and
 and vote on it so i'd like to hear what everybody else has to say um thanks sarah i'll just follow up a little bit on that and the reason why i think our code is problematic is because these other houses are new houses and we heard last time that our code allows water to go streaming right down the um right
 right down the driveway, and they have had flooding, not in their houses, but certainly in their backyard. And so if you have that kind of flooding with our code, and you have to spend your own, and brand new houses, and you have to spend your own money actually installing French drains, I think that needs a serious review. So this is why I am concerned. And it is theoretically, we shouldn't make it worse, but...
 Again, I have some serious concerns about our current code. So thank you. I think The issue for me regarding them the flooding is we have an undeveloped Hillside behind those homes and that they were always designed to sheet that water down their driveways so the concern I have is that when the pads were graded and poured whoever built those pads
 I feel like should have raised those eight inches higher than they are. And they would have added a step to the front door to be able to get in. And I don't see any way around not having water seep through your yard just because of that hard pack slope that's behind you. So I think that's the way I feel about the existing flooding. The swale being added, I think, is the single best...
 stormwater management change that could be affected for the downhill neighbors, to be perfectly honest with you. That I think when we were out there and toured, many of us were surprised that there wasn't a swale there already. And that, to me, that that's kind of the godsend for the people that are going to live downhill. And I think that that would be a good thing if I lived below that, to have that development added
 I was concerned about the density, but when we looked at the property having two legal frontages and being eligible to have two cluster housing developments, that kind of persuades me that
 Why force them to go through the administrative process of dividing that parcel further and creating two cluster homes to achieve even greater density than the density they're proposing. And so I think that that's a more reasonable governmental tact to take to say they've reduced it from 19 to 18 and
 They can still get to 19 if we force them to go subdivide and create two clusters. And I don't think that benefits the neighborhood either. So I think I'm left with the sidewalk. That sidewalk will not be ADA compliant due to slope. I agree with you, Sloan.
 And at best to get the sidewalk that comes around the corner to join the two streets is about all that could be asked for. So while I was initially hesitant, I want to commend both the neighbors who moved the ball forward by bringing forward your concerns and your request for conditions. And I want to commend the developer for being patient.
 far more responsive than most to those requests from the neighbors. And I feel like that was some good faith on their part as well that I want to acknowledge. So I'm someone that would have been more hesitant. And at this point, I find myself willing to support this development as is. Thank you. Anything else? I have a question for Kit. Yes. Thank you, Mayor. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Sarah. Go ahead, Sonia. Sorry about that.
 Okay, I'll be brief, but I do have a question regarding the retention pond design. And I, you know, the developer referred to it as kind of in a way that maybe possibly the public doesn't quite understand what the benefits of that pond are. And I wondered if Chris or anybody could speak to the water quality issue
 and why it's designed the way it is? John Aucott, M.D.: Sure. Thank you for the question. So our standard requirements include the the
 Any increase in drainage has to be mitigated. That includes water quality, includes downstream channel protection, and it includes major flooding, which is our 25 to 100-year storm. With regard to water quality, the theory is that the first inch of water has 80% of the pollutants. The first flush is where you get most of the water quality issues.
 The developer is required to keep that first inch of water on site in the detention, in this case in the detention pond through infiltration so the pond is designed to handle that.
 Talked last time, the pond is designed to capture all of the water that's coming to it from this proposed site and also pick up some of the water from the existing site. So it's part of a master drainage plan. One thing, since I'm here, I will say that in talking about diverting the water into the pond that's now not going into the pond, we've talked with the developer about that. Typically,
 we don't want to see water diverted because then it puts water in a place that it shouldn't be and can cause other problems. In this case, the developer and the developer's engineer think that they can design the pond. There may be some modifications or some other things that they do to keep water on site in other areas to make sure that this diversion of water doesn't create any other problems.
 Hope I answered that question, Sonia. Yes, thank you, Chris. I did have one more, Sarah. The other question I had, I think it might be for the developer. I didn't catch the person's name that is concerned about her east side, the east side of the development. Can someone speak to what is going to happen on the east side of the development for a barrier?
 Mayor, I can begin by describing what's in the conditions. And if the developer would like to add to that, I think that may be able to supplement it. As condition number one is written, it does describe, as the neighbor noted, that there's the potential for some additional vegetation on the north, south, and west sides of the property. Theirs is obviously on the east side.
 Typically, not a lot of screening is required when you have single-family homes next to single-family homes. Screening is typically an urban planning and development tool meant to protect differing uses from each other. In this instance, though, staff felt it was important to incorporate some elements because
 And so what we incorporated in that first condition is the requirement to have vegetation, a hedgerow, or low-lying fence of about 48 inches anywhere on the perimeter of the property where there may be headlights or parking areas that could potentially impact the neighbors. So that is incorporated in the conditions, but if there's anything additional, of course, I'll have to defer to the applicant. Thanks. Thank you. So, I think that's a great question.
 Thank you Jonathan for reiterating that. I just wanted to make sure that she understood that there was something there and that helps for me to visualize that. I don't have anything else at this moment. Thanks Sarah. Go ahead. Yes, I have a question for Kit. Now, when we get ready to vote, what exactly are we going to be voting on at this point? Because this has changed so many times here.
 So we're either voting for if we vote in favor, if we vote yes, that means what? Okay, I did send a memo out to you because it's kind of confusing. You've got three options. If you vote in favor of the resolution as it's been amended now, then you will be approving the project with the added amended conditions.
 Okay. That's in favor of the resolution. Okay. So if you wanted to stop the project, then you would need to go back to the original resolution that grants the appeal but denies the conditional use and denies the variance. And that would pretty much prevent the project from going forward.
 Now, if you don't want to do either one of those things, if no one passes or if the city council cannot pass a resolution approving the appeal and all of these resolutions have approving the appeal so you can do something else, then that would be going back to the planning commission's decision with only conditions that were the planning commission had put on there. And the appeal would just be like it didn't happen. The planning commission decision would be affirmed.
 So it depends on what you, what the city council, majority of the city council wants to do. And the proposed new amended resolution would actually allow this project to go forward, but it would have these additional conditions on it. Like what we just, we just sort of passed. Sort of. What we're about to vote on next. Correct. Yes. Correct. All right. Everybody got that? I feel we passed that.
 Yes. Did we already move to amend it? Yes, it's already been amended. If somebody wanted to stop the project, they would need to move to amend back to the original resolution that is presented that granted the appeal but denied the conditional use and denied the variance. That would...
 be damaging to the project, that'd be most likely a vote that could kill the project. Otherwise, if nothing passes, if you can't pass a resolution, you can't get five votes for the resolution, then the planning commission's decision's going to be upheld and none of these additional conditions will be limiting the project. Go ahead. Okay.
 I move that we amend it back, the second scenario that you mentioned, Kent, to the original, I guess, the original appeal. Okay. Do we have a second on that? Okay. We don't have a second. All right. Now we're. And if we approve the resolution? I didn't catch that. I'll second as amended. Yes. Yes. Okay. All right. Any other final comments on this?
 So if we vote yes, that means we're voting for the amended resolution? With the ten conditions that are on it. Ten conditions. Okay, so that's the latest version, right? Okay. That's the latest version. Okay. All right. Kara, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Kirk's Park? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. All right. The next order of business we have tonight is resolution to order the raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by.
 Kevin Roy Calhoun, located at 3301 South Coach Road in the city of Feverell, Arkansas, and to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $17,500. Billy. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. Billy Bryant, Senior Code Compliance Officer. To start things off, we'll go over our raise and removal process real quick. It begins with a complaint via email, phone, or in person.
 We do an inspection of the property to make sure that it is a valid complaint. If it is, we send a notice of violation to the property owner detailing what the violation is and how much time they have to correct it. They get a time frame for correction determining depending on what the violation is. If they do not correct it, then we go into abatement, which would be the open bid for demo. The notification of a hearing is mailed to the property owner notifying them of this hearing. And then we have this hearing.
 This is an aerial photo of 3301 South Coach Road. South Coach Road resides in South Fayetteville and Ward 1 and it is west of 71 Business off of West Sunrise Mountain Road. Staff is recommending the raise and removal of this structure and the budget adjustment of $17,500. Next slide. The raise and removal case for 3301 South Coach Road was opened on June 29, 2022.
 The complaint came from a neighbor in the area. Property owner Kevin Roy Calhoun was notified of the open case on his property via certified mail. Code compliance received the signed receipt on July 11, 2022. This property had passed violations that had to be corrected using city contractors. Staff used the contractors to mow the grass two times in 2018 and once in 2022.
 Currently, there is an open vehicle case at the prosecutor's office for the inoperable vehicles on the property. Mr. Calhoun was notified of every open case regarding his property and neglected to correct the violations. Including the past violations, Mr. Calhoun did not reach out to staff regarding the state of the property. Contact information to reach code compliance was made available but not utilized. Through the years, staff has observed the deterioration of the structure.
 For most of these years the damage was somewhat repairable, but to continue neglect for too long has pushed the structure past the point of repair. Next slide. As far as issues on the structure, it suffers from a rotted roof that is allowing the elements inside the structure. This failure has allowed the rafters, fascia, and soffit to rot as well. These structural components play a big part in the stability and security of any structure.
 The failing porches that surround the exterior of the structure are a danger to anyone trying to go inside. The siding that protects the exterior is covered in mildew and is buckling in areas. The buckling of the siding is most likely due to the biggest failure of this structure, the foundation. The foundation to this structure is in a very vulnerable state.
 The photos that I will show you in just a second, you will see dangerous foundation separation. As this structure continues to deteriorate, this separation will get worse, which will result in complete structural failure. Inspections indicate that the structure is not occupied. Let's start off with some photos. That's the front of the photo, or front of the house. Next photo. Here we can see some of the deterioration at the very top.
 This photo I want to highlight real quick.
 The photo does a very, it doesn't do a good job of showing how bad this house is leaning. So you can see a little bit of the front post there, how it's a little off kilter, but the brick column in the middle is actually falling forward. And you can see the separation there at the bottom, it's kind of staggered up. It's leaning pretty far forward. I just could not get a good enough picture to show how serious that issue is.
 But it is definitely leaning forward very badly. This is more the rotting soffit and fascia. As we go around the house, you'll see various different issues with it. The porches are failing tremendously. I don't know that they've ever been replaced.
 There's some more foundation separation right there. That's a very big gap. I was unable to get close enough to the structure to actually measure that gap, but the photos do a pretty good job of showing how large that gap is. There on the corner, you can see some more foundation issues. Here we have more foundation issues. The foundation issues do surround the house, the structure.
 Due to these photos, that is why staff is recommending the raise and removal and the budget adjustment for the demo. Is there any questions about any of the photos or anything I've presented to you tonight? Billy, I have a question. How old is this house? I believe the house was built in the 1980s, if I remember correctly. I apologize. I did not bring that information with me. Just the...
 style of it doesn't it doesn't look like it's that old and just to To be in this condition is real, you know for something I would have put maybe mid 70s somewhere in there That that this is really startling to see something in this condition. So that's not that old Well, I live on Mount Sequoia so that's a you know foundation issues you take care of those you don't you know You don't want to get this bad
 Thank you. I have a question, Billy. Thank you so much for showing us those photos. I know you mentioned that you've tried to contact the property owner. Have you actually physically or on the phone been in touch with him? We don't actually have a phone number for him. So in order to reach property owners, we use just Washington County property records.
 And we mail, we certified mail everything we send to them. And so we get a signed receipt card back from him. And everything we mail to him has our email and our phone, all our contact info. But he has never reached out. And we don't have any other way of reaching out to him.
 And remind me, you probably said this in the beginning. How many times have you reached out to him? I know you did it at least once with the sign. How many times do you recall? Well, through all the years or just this year? This year. This year. We mowed his property once this year. So we did reach out to him prior because there was a tall grass complaint. He did not cut it. So we had our contractors cut it.
 And then you don't think it's occupied, correct? Correct. I do not believe it is occupied. Okay. Thank you. What's the city's standard for raise and removal? Is it the same across the board as it relates to reaching out and communicating with the property owners?
 Yes, and actually, raising removals, we tend to give more time for. We would like to reach out to them and speak to them if they would like to speak with us. But I've been working this case for five months. So we've given them a lot of time, and we also have a past history with this property owner as well of not being respondent. Thank you.
 I'm going to bring up something and I'm not sure really how to do this, but do you have any idea about the age of this owner, the person that owns this? Because in the past we have had several instances where we've had someone who's a senior citizen and not able to take care of their property the way that a younger person might. And I wondered if that might be applicable in this instance. I do not know the property owner's age.
 I do not. Okay. Thank you. Did you say the property owner is still living in this house? No. No, it's unoccupied. So how long do you think the house has been vacant? I have been working for code compliance for almost six years, and it has been vacant for at least that amount of time. Thanks. Have we had anyone from the homeless community living in the house? Not that I have seen, and I haven't seen any signs. Okay.
 And Billy, have you checked the tax records? I mean, are they up to date on paying taxes and that sort of thing? Or do you know? That's a great question. I have not checked to see if they're up to date on their taxes. I have not checked. Okay. Thank you. If, uh,
 They followed your directions or building safety's directions. How hard would it be at this point to try to rehab the house? I know it's got foundation problems and substantial rotting in other places. Is it just beyond hope to repair this? Yes, there is no rehabilitation for this property. Foundation's gone.
 Yeah, I'm a general contractor. I've got liability insurance. I wouldn't send a worker in this building. I wouldn't put myself in this building or somebody I cared about. So hopefully we can get a hold of them to decide what is better for us to do this or not. But that building needs to go at some point.
 I would hate for some kids to just find this. I got to say, I as a kid, about 14, went through a building that shouldn't have and hurt myself. You know, you've got I forget the name, but an enticing nuisance or whatever it is where it's enticing to go in, but very dangerous. So hopefully we can get this resolved quickly and
 I don't know if somebody want to table this or not to just hopefully we can find the owner and ask what's best for him. But I do know it's got to come down. What's the is there a timeline that you're hoping to have something done? Because it sounds like the owner of the house is probably I mean, if you've been you said five, I'm sorry, five years. Six years. Yes. Six years. And so throughout that time, have you it's.
 I'm under the impression that you've been communicating with the owner, correct? No, he's only signed our receipt cards that we mail him when people complain about his property. They've complained about grass, the inoperable vehicles, and the home. So he has not made any attempt to do anything with the property? No, sir. And this is a...
 I'm really concerned if we waited any longer than, I mean, we've had issues in other parts of the ward as it relates to people being in houses and things of that nature. And so it sounds like you have done what you can do and there's still no response. And so I'm just concerned if there's anything else that needs to be done to
 as it relates to reaching out to the owner because if not then I mean I don't see why we couldn't move forward. Billy what address does the certified mail go to? It goes to, I don't have that with me I'm sorry,
 Is anyone have the property records packet or packet? Mayor, I have some of that information. Council Member Hertzberg, to your question, it goes to a PO box here in Fayetteville and Council Member Turc, it looks like the most recent tax payment was that the county has proof for is in 2020. I think, I don't know if that means it's delinquent or if that's just the most current that the county has available. Looking at tax history on this, it looks as if...
 Somewhere, and I don't know if this, one of the deeds that transferred it looked like there was a death certificate involved with it, so it might be inherited property, but it also indicates at some point in time, at least, it has been going to the Bank of Fayetteville Trust Department. So it is possible that that might be one of the, you know...
 little researching around on the county records might be merited. I would not want to wait too long on this so if it is in a trust then the then the Bank of Fayetteville should be taken care of you know seeing that
 There's nothing they can do with it now. I mean, it's in really bad condition. One of those cracks in the foundation might be repaired, but on every side of the building you just can't hope to ever fix that. But maybe just, I'd be willing to table this for, you know, maybe two weeks just to do a little more research on it to try and find out.
 But I don't want it sitting out there forever because this is just an accident waiting to happen. I totally agree. I think two weeks is good.
 And it sounds like that will give you enough time to reach out to the Bank of Fayetteville. It possibly is the Bank of Fayetteville. I'm not sure. It's kind of hard for me to look everything up on my phone, but it looks like it has had that connection there to the trust department at the Bank of Fayetteville. So it sounds like, Billy, that that will be your final step, right? Yes.
 Thank you. Thank you. Have you posted this property also or not? Yes, we have. Is that posting still up? Do you know it is? I mean we table for two weeks. Oh second. Let's take some public comment you just never know. They may turn up.
 Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and those that are participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom after that. Do we have anyone that would like to address us on this in the room, in the chamber? No.
 Do we have any? No. Okay, then I'll bring it back to the council. So shall we table it for two weeks and will somebody make a motion? Yes. We already had a motion and a second down there. Alrighty then. Alright. Caravage, please call the roll. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Bedecker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Banks? Yes. Turd? Yes. Erdsberg?
 Clerk Paxton, this is Mark Kenyon. I'm also on the line. Yes. Okay. All right. Well, let's go to new business. An ordinance to repeal Article 9, PEG Advisory Board, Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Federal Code. Kit. Whereas the purpose of the PEG Advisory Board is to advise the City Council on issues related to public access, educational, and government television use in the City of Fayetteville.
 And whereas for the past five years there has been no business to address or discuss, the PEG Advisory Board has not been a functional board when, with no business to attend to and a lack of agenda items, the PEG Advisory Board has difficulty reaching a quorum and filling vacant positions.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals Article 9, Peg Advisory Board of Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fayetteville Code in its entirety. Okay. Doug. Doug.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. So yes, the Peg Advisory Board has not been a functional board technically since mid-2015 when it was known as the Telecommunications Board. It was at that time that the definitions and duties of the Telecommunications Board were amended to conform to the change in state law regarding cable franchising and rights of way.
 which left little for the Telecommunications Board to do. So in 2019, to kind of help narrow and direct the function of that board, the Telecommunications Board was changed to the PEG Advisory Board. But unfortunately, that didn't have the effect we were looking for, and it did little to stem the ripple effect from that 2015 change.
 The board, as Mr. Williams has mentioned, struggles in finding items to address on its agendas. It fails to achieve quorums, and there's great difficulty in filling the vacant positions. Staff is making the recommendation for council to repeal Article 9, City PEG Advisory Board and Chapter 33 departments, boards, commissions, and authorities of the Fayetteville Code, and abolish the City PEG Advisory Board. Thank you. Okay. What...
 what questions do we have for mayor i have a question um have the current members of the peg advisory board been informed that you're bringing this forward to the city council to basically eliminate the board the we have not been we've not had great contact with the members the current members of the peg advisory board then this has been mentioned in the past when we were trying to figure out what the peg advisory board could do for the future
 since that time and it's been over a year. We've actually not been able to have any contact during emails when I would email who could be present at the next quarterly PEG Advisory Board. And we no longer have gotten any responses for that since there has been no items up for business.
 But just to follow up, but you haven't sent them an email recently to let them know that this is coming before the city council. Is that correct? Not recently. In fact, I've actually had this item for a while.
 about a year and I've been holding off bringing this before council. It was, there was a possibility of it being grouped into some other boards or committees that may not need to be continued because they were running into some of the same troubles, but they were able to rectify themselves. The PEG Advisory Board has not, with no new business in the past year and a half, two years,
 So, it's been about a year and a half since this was kind of mentioned as possibly doing away with the PEG Advisory Board. Because it's been held off, they've not been contacted recently and there have not been any meetings we've had for the past year and a half. The last meeting was January of 2021.
 And so when you discussed eliminating the board, was there any opposition or concern from any of the board members? There was no concern. And there was an understanding that there was not just a lot of items up for discussion or what the pegboard could truly advise on. And when presented to board,
 At that time, the chair of the board, there was not, they were not able to come up with any business to bring forward either to provide advice on. And it was, the board kind of came to a standstill. Thank you. I appreciate it. Yeah, sure. What are some of the possible alternatives?
 Could the Quebec Commission be replaced, or could we... Is there another... Is there another opportunity to form a similar group? The... Well, right now, it is a board that is looking for something for functions and something to do.
 We changed from the Telecommunications Board to the PEG Advisory Board to kind of narrow its focus at that time, hoping that would jumpstart it. It did not because one of the main things that the Telecommunications Board would do would regard cable franchising.
 and had an advisory capacity in that sense. Because that's been taken away, the PEG Advisory Board doesn't advise on financial matters. It doesn't advise on how the operation would spend its money. The PEG Advisory Board was,
 One of the responsibilities of it was perhaps to see to it that the third party public access provider would be adhering to the contract. But that's also double duty with what the city is responsible for doing. City staff is that the city staff ensures that the contract is being, conditions in the contract are being upheld. So it was like duplicating procedure there.
 There is, this kind of follows the line that the Board of Health took a few years ago where at that time Chief David Dayringer didn't have any business to attend to and that board was repealed. Of course, COVID happened and council has the right to reform a board. So that's always a possibility in the future.
 What is the city's process as it relates to, I guess, disbanding of boards and commissions? Is there a process or how does that happen? I think the problem that happened here is that the state law changed and they gave the power that the city used to have to the secretary of state to issue these franchise agreements here.
 We used to, when I first became city attorney in 2001, we had a lot of power. And in fact, we had so many responsibilities, we hired an outside specialist to help us negotiate with the companies, the cable companies, which used to be very strong,
 And, but then the law changed both on the federal level and the state level, and all of our powers to negotiate franchise agreements were gone. They were transferred to the Secretary of State and then the Secretary of State would only just enforce our franchise fee and basically nothing else. And so this one group, which had been very important to the city and they also used to hear complaints. Well, all that power,
 is gone now. And so this board really has nothing to do anymore. And so I applaud the city staff from saying, look, sometimes committees have run their time and sometimes they have no more reason to exist. And so we really should take them off the books. And if new reasons come up, we can recreate them or create a new committee. But I think that city staff is doing the right thing on this.
 I would be in, you know, given the circumstances, I totally think it makes sense to close this committee and not have it, but we did get one application for a seat on this committee and I believe we put that person down to interview, so if we're closing the committee then I would hope the clerk's office would notify that person so we don't have to interview them then. I'll try for another committee. .
 So is anything need, okay, let me get back to this. Is anything needed from us on this here? Public comment. Public comment, yeah, sorry. Public comment and then we'll thrash around on this a little bit more. Okay, we're gonna take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first.
 And those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that. Who would like to speak on this topic? Hello again, Mayor. This is not a controversial issue, but it is a little bit sad.
 I hope that when you repeal this, it'll go with the thanks to all the residents and nerds of Fayetteville who have come to city government through the telecom board or the PEG advisory board. And I think there are quite a few folks who got their start that way. It also wouldn't be a night with me sitting in the council chamber if I didn't find an opportunity to lament the state...
 intervening on local control and sending that down to Little Rock and I don't know if this was the the first big time that happened but it was definitely this early in the trend and I've done it more and more and it's unfortunate to see our engaged community members losing their opportunity for local input. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address on this? Who do you have by Zoom Susan? No one has their hand raised Mayor.
 Okay, then I'm gonna bring it back to the council what action with the council like to take what discussion with so like Most of spin rolls and go to second reading second Alright, we have motion say go to second. We care which police called her up Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes Kenyon Kenyon I'm trying here. Yay Whitaker yes Scroggins yes, yes. Oh
 yes Hertzberg yes and Norris or appeal article 9 peg advisory board of chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the Fayetteville code moose's minerals and go to third upon reading second motion saying to go to third and final reading here which please call the roll Harvey yes Jones yes yes yes yes yes
 Scroggins yes, but yes, sir Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, and no nuts repeal article 9 Peg advisory board of chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the Fayetteville code Final comments from accounts. Okay, Karen's please color. Oh, Arby. Yes Jones. Yes Kenyon yes Whitaker yes
 Scroggin? Yes. Bench? Yes. Curve? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Okay. Number two, an ordinance to amend 130.39, graffiti in the federal code to create a graffiti abatement program. Kip, an ordinance. Whereas the existence of graffiti on building structures such as fences or walls or utility poles or boxes located on public or privately owned property.
 viewable from a public or quasi-public place within the city is detrimental to property values, degrades the community, causes an increase in crime, is inconsistent with the city's property maintenance and aesthetic standards, and is a nuisance. And whereas establishing a graffiti abatement program will enable the city to remove graffiti from public and privately owned property, in addition to other remedies available to the city and to property owners.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal Section 130.39 Graffiti of the Fayetteville Code in its entirety and enact a new Section 130.39 Graffiti as shown in Exhibit A, Attesture 2, and made a part hereof. Okay. Theresa. Thank you, Mayor.
 As I mentioned, I think at agenda session, you know, I bike the trails quite a bit, and there is a huge amount of graffiti along our beautiful trails that is on private property. I believe that we have the ability right now to remove graffiti on public property but not private property. So this was an attempt to create a process and really to open up the conversation about how we're able to 
 not have the broken window experience, how we're able to keep our city in really good shape, especially all the money that we've spent on trails and those sorts of things. So that, again, this is the opening of the conversation because it is a balance between the rights of property owners and also the rights of the community through the city to remove graffiti. I'm happy to answer any questions y'all may have.
 What questions do we have? Council. I don't have any questions, but I did want to let Teresa know that I have asked for this item to go onto the Arts Council agenda for December the 21st. So if we could...
 potentially table this item so that the Arts Council can meet and discuss the item. I don't see that they would be against making sure that the city stays beautified. But we certainly have an issue with people trespassing and putting art where it hasn't been invited. So I don't see any issues, but I do want to give them an opportunity to give input. Thank you.
 And Sonia, what day of the week is that? I'm wondering if it, is it after? It's a Wednesday. It's right after the day. 21st at 6 p.m. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Would you be available if you're not? I'm happy to connect with you to get the information. Of course, I can just use what's in the packet. But I'll work with you to make sure the community gets everything they need.
 Yes, I could probably attend and be available if they had some questions or some concerns. Okay. Yeah, I really don't think there will be, but it would be great to get their feedback. I can't think of anything myself, but I think it would be a great idea to take it to them. Okay.
 In the amended version, this is slightly different than what you all saw in agenda session. We've added a couple of things here at the end. Item number five, so if there is a written objection to the removal of the graffiti,
 that there is a due process hearing. So I really, after thinking about this a little bit more, I wanted to make sure that the property owner had a due process if they disagreed with the city's decision. And so that there was the ability to discuss and go through that.
 The other item that I'd really like to amend tonight, again, after talking with several people, is to remove the leaseholder tenant item in there and really just have it only be approved by the owner or the owner's agent.
 because I do think that that could be that might be able to be problematic if it's a leaseholder and they have given they've given approval to have the graffiti stay on there or to be placed there but it's it's in conflict with maybe what the owner wanted so that might just simplify things a little bit but again this is a conversation I would love any ideas you all may have
 Teresa, I thank you for bringing this forward. I think as we get to become a denser community and
 we're going to end up having to invest resources in this endeavor that a decade ago were not invested and I think it's simply a part of ensuring the not just the beauty of the community but tagging is simply a means of identifying turf and territory and I just don't think
 that we have any business allowing that form of turf identification remaining on property in our city. So I commend you for bringing this forward. Okay. So we want to put an amendment on something? On what?
 Yeah, I mean, it's kind of, I mean, it looks like we're going to table this and talk about it some more, but I know that there are a lot of other cities that we can look at as far as, I mean, you mentioned tagging. I mean, I know gangs do that, but also communities can kind of take spaces back. And so there's a lot of community programs where when things get tagged, then you don't just clean it up with some beige color.
 you get a community to come out and decide what goes there. And those usually stay longer. Just this week, we had two murals unveiled. And so I'm hoping that some of those can be like almost a pilot program that when tags do go up, that it's an opportunity for the community to step in and decide what goes there instead of the gangs.
 So thanks for bringing that up. And I think that's why I'm interested in bringing it to the Arts Council. We actually have a former Arts Council member, Ms. Olivia Trimble, who has worked to erase hateful messages actively. And so I think what I would like
 to do is invite her as a person to advise us in kind of what her process has been and what she has seen. If there's a creative way for us to turn the project around and bring the community on, I think that's what I'm kind of looking for. Like I said, I think in terms of
 the Art Council supporting things that are unlawful, I think that that's not gonna be the issue. So I'd actually be okay to pass kind of what we have now if you really wanted to just get it done. But if we take a few weeks into January, I think I could bring some more good feedback from the Art Council.
 So, Sonia, would part of that be adding another provision in here about what is done once the graffiti is removed? Is that kind of what you're thinking, sort of in line with what Sloan was talking about, a next step that would be part of the ordinance? Is that how you kind of envision it?
 Honestly, I'm not really sure. They're so creative and so involved that a lot of times when I bring them things, I didn't even think of what they brought up. So I'm not exactly sure what kind of input they will have. Maybe it will be very easy and everyone will just say, this is a great idea, let's just go for it. But maybe they might have some very good way to handle, especially the community side,
 So, I'm not sure, Teresa. I'd love to hear what the Arts Council has to say on this, because I think we can all agree that we don't want, you know, if you're walking with your kids on the, and they're old enough to read, you don't want obscenities that you wouldn't repeat in your own household, you know, that are out there on the walls, and we don't want things that
 you know, anything that would be hateful or racist or anything like that, but there are some incredible opportunities to, to let people express themselves
 on an otherwise blank wall and you know, we might not want to just paint over it. The Arts Council might come up with a plan where we can get people who would be engaged in, you know, otherwise maybe defacing someone else's property and then they're engaged in actually participating in beautifying that property. I think there's a lot of potential there. I've traveled to a lot of cities that have some really, really creative
 graffiti that's not that's that's very artistic and it's actually in places is kind of encouraged so anyway i'd love to hear what the arts council has to say about that thank you for bringing it up sonia and thank you theresa for bringing this up to our attention as well
 So I guess after we take public comment, what I would suggest is that we make an amendment, or maybe we can make the amendment now where we eliminate the leasehold tenant. And there we remove that. And there, if I could move to eliminate the leasehold tenant. I second. Thank you.
 Well, at this point, the exhibit A is not even in yet. Oh. So, I mean, you're eliminating it from the old one, which didn't have anything about leasehold in it.
 So, this was, as you probably know, much of this ordinance was taken from the Springdale City Ordinance. They have had issues up there, and so they instituted a program to try to eliminate their graffiti. If you look at the code section that's being replaced, it was passed in 1994. I was on the council then, and we thought that we were having some graffiti problems, and so that's why we enacted the first.
 uh graffiti uh resistance to graffiti ordinance this one goes much far further and gives the uh police and it gives the city more power uh to do something even on somebody's private property but it also provides a due process hearing if someone does not want the city to remove
 what the city might believe is graffiti but which the owner might not want the city to remove. So it tries to balance out the rights of both parties here. But if you want to change it to the more modified version, not the one that was sent out with the council, and except with no reference to the landlord or the tenant's rights,
 Then that's fine. You could do that, and then we'll just change this Exhibit A and remove all those references. Okay, so I'll make a different motion. I move to amend that Exhibit A replaces what was in your packet and that we adopt Exhibit A without the leaseholder tenant provision in there. Second. Okay. All right, so we're going to amend it to...
 what kid is drawn up and then except we're going to omit the lease holder i got it all right any discussion on that on the amendment okay care which please call the road harvey yes jones yes kenyan yes whittaker yes scroggins yes yes kirk yes hertsburg yes okay
 So now we have the amended ordinance. Do you want to take some public comment? If people are here to discuss it, I think we should take public comment tonight. Okay, very good then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration, and don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that. Who do we have in the chamber who would like to address us on this? All right, Mayor, this is the one I actually came for tonight. I want to thank Councilmember Tartt because this
 for recognizing that graffiti has been a nuisance and bringing forward an action to fix it. I also appreciate your willingness to kind of move slow and have the conversation. I commend you for bringing it as the start of the conversation. I would love to present you with some questions that I would like to hear folks ask and discuss.
 Because this is kind of a big step to go from it's unlawful to place graffiti to we're going to enter on public property and make permanent or semi-permanent cosmetic changes on 48 hours notice. So I think it's real important that everybody understands the process and how this will be implemented. So here are some of the things that I hope will be discussed in the next couple of weeks.
 And I'll be happy to send these to you in an email later if you'd like.
 I guess the first one would be to the mayor. Are you satisfied with the definition of graffiti that it allows you to implement this with discretion without getting into squishy First Amendment or viewpoint discrimination issues? I am, but I have some issue about when we decide to get on private property. Right. And...
 I'm sorry. That's fine. As far as the graffiti, I'm good with that. I don't. But it's the piece that I have had some concern with. I want to be sure that everybody's notified. We're talking about notifying people before we raise and remove a building. If somebody has painted something or paid to have something painted on their shed and they go away and we can't contact them,
 I want to be sure that we at least have contact. If they want to keep it, we're in disagreement. I think what Kit has presented that would bring a process, although at the end of the day, the mayor will probably have some decisions to make. I just will tell you, I will look at every situation and not do anything rash. I would...
 I'd like to hear how this might impact railroad rights of way, because that's one of the areas that's most commonly marked up generously. And sometimes there's a weird legal status that the railroads carry. Okay.
 How will the maintenance, the removal be paid for? I see that the ordinance authorizes the use of public funds, but there's not a budget amendment attached. Do we know how much this is going to cost? Do we know what department's going to be in charge? Do we have the staff capacity to do it? Will there be a community organization that's contracted to take care of it?
 How will you manage matching colors on all of the different private properties in town? Will we have three to choose from in stock and hope that it's close enough? Because I can imagine color matching some random house would be kind of time-consuming for staff.
 But it could end up ugly otherwise. A lot of this is put on the police department and that makes total sense for investigation. But there's also a lot of notification burdens put on the police. Are they prepared to handle that? Are they the best part of the city to handle that? I hope they're not going to be the ones out there painting it in their uniforms.
 So, you know, those are just kind of some of the things that I hope y'all will discuss. I'm a little unsure how I feel about it overall. I know that the ordinance has its heart in the right place and this is a problem that needs to be fixed. Just be real careful with the implementation and I know that the mayor will be. Totally agree with you. Yeah, thank you for listening to the Arts Council and just make sure you know what, how this is going to operate in real life before you vote on it.
 I should note, for the record, and you can look at the document yourself, but there's no burden placed on the police. Everything is theirs and authority. They may do this. They may do this. They may do that. Not that they shall do it. And most of that is going to have to be resolved by the administration on who's best able to handle this. Obviously, we're removing graffiti right now and have been for years. We have, yes. So it's not like this is something that just came up.
 And, you know, I think that actually there is not a substantial number of problems that have been reported within the last year or so, even though we've all seen it. If you've driven around, occasionally you'll see something you feel like, hmm, that probably should not be there. Yes. Okay. Anyone else like to address this on this? Okay. Who do we have on Zoom?
 No one on Zoom has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. All right. I will bring it back to the council. I understand. I mean, if you just let it sit, it'll hold for two weeks. Okay. It's an ordinance. Leave it on the first reading. But the Arts Council meeting is after our next meeting, so we probably need to table it until the new year. Oh, okay. The first meeting in January? We could...
 Yeah, we could have a special meeting if you really wanted to speed it up, because they asked me that, and I think they would potentially be willing to do that. But it would be good to leave it to January, then we can just have it on our regular. I think that would be best to do, just wait until January. You know, we're all busy during the holidays. We don't want to have a special meeting. Thank you. I would move that we table it until the first meeting in January.
 Second. Okay. We have a motion to second the table until the first of the year. Is that correct? Did I get that right? First meeting in January. Everybody, please call the roll. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inion? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. Let's go on to number three.
 You know, a break wouldn't be real bad. The mayor could use a little break right now. All right. I'm taking a break, huh? Let's go ahead and get started. Okay, we are on D3, aren't we? Thank you. Okay.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-046, located at 822 North Gardner Avenue in Ward 2, for approximately .10 acres from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre CS community services. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to CS, community services. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Hey, John. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in Ward 2. It's just north of the main University of Arkansas campus on the east side of Garland. More specifically, it's on the southeast corner of Garland's intersection with Berry. You can see that highlighted here on the aerial image before you.
 The property includes about a tenth of an acre and is currently developed with a single family home. The house today has access directly on the Berry, but it is worth noting that there is an alleyway that serves the property as well, running north to south from Eagle to Berry. The request before council tonight is to rezone the property from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units breaker to CS, community services.
 The applicant has not shared any specifics about why they want that request other than to say they are looking to develop it with some additional density. So their request is in pretty broad terms at this point.
 When reviewing the request from a compatibility standpoint, planning staff did find the request to be in line with surrounding land uses. If you're familiar with the area or not, the area is comprised of a wide variety of residential uses in particular, ranging from small single-family homes up to larger apartment buildings. Thank you.
 Additionally, as you go further north to North Street or further south towards the University campus, there's an addition of more commercial or non-residential uses. Both commercial and residential uses are allowed in the CS zoning district, so staff has found the request to be compatible in that regard.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, staff similarly found the request to be consistent with our long-range planning goals. The future land use map calls out this property as a city neighborhood area. That designation indicates anticipation of a mix of uses and fairly high intensity, which aligns pretty well with what the Community Services Zoning District affords, again, with that mixture of residential and non-residential uses.
 This is carried on as far as the city's infill rating indicates. It's perhaps unsurprising that the fire department a couple blocks to the south provides very great coverage, but the property also has direct access to water, sewer. There's the Harps grocery store to the north. Leverett Elementary is nearby. Of course, the university campus to the south and several other factors bear in making this an appropriate infill location from staff's perspective. Thank you.
 When it comes to considering other issues, staff did not find any of note and accordingly we are recommending in favor of the request. When presented to the Planning Commission, they felt similarly and forwarded it to City Council with fairly limited comment unanimously by a vote of seven to zero.
 We have received one piece of public comment about this. There was a neighboring property owner who had questions, and once they understood the request, they expressed their support for it. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has, and I believe Matt Lose is available as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council? I apologize, Mayor. I thought I saw them here earlier. Oh, there we are. Okay.
 Apologies, Matt Lewis is not going to be present tonight, but good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Jacob Holt, representing Olson. I'm here in place of Matt because I'm a direct relation to the development, the site layout, and the design. So I'm here to answer any questions that you do have. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions from the Council for the applicant or the staff?
 Mike, have you or Mark, either one heard anything? No, sir. Haven't heard a thing on this one. Mark, have you heard anything? No, I haven't. Okay. All right. No questions. We'll take a little public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, and those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and then those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that.
 Who'd like is it does anyone want to speak on this in the chamber? Susan you know sir, okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's wishes the council? Move suspend roll go in the second reading Harvey Harvey yes, Jones. Yes, Kenyon. Yes. I
 wedeker yes scroggin yes bench yes church yes artsburg yes and your order's the reason that property described in rezoning petition rzn 22-46 located at 822 north garland avenue in ward 2 for approximately tenth of an acre from rmf 40 residential multi-family 40 units per acre to cs community services
 move to spin rules and go to third and final reading second Harvey yes Jones yes Inyan yes we took her yes Scroggins yes but yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes
 And your initial reason that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 22-46 located 822 North Garland Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately a tenth of an acre from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to CS community services. Any final comments from the council? Care which please call the roll. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Ertzfeld? Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Let's go to D4. In order to approve vacation 22-023 for property located at 680 North Samara Circle in Ward 4, vacate a portion of a utility's kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 yet the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a utility easement as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo section 2 that a copy of this ordinance really certified by the city clerk along with the map attached exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk
 Section 3 this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing Facilities shall be at the owner developers expense. Yeah Thank You mayor
 This property is located in Ward 4, just west of the main University of Arkansas campus, about 600 feet east of where Tseng intersects with Cleveland. The property in question is a through lot with its backyard abutting Cleveland Street and its front yard fronting onto Samara Circle.
 The property is developed with a single family home built in 1993 and at the time of that property's planning, a utility easement was dedicated to a depth of about 25 feet from that north property line running the entire width of the property. The request before council tonight is to vacate a portion of that which you can see here in
 in order to build a pergola in that area. Unfortunately, sometimes it is my duty to take a very straightforward request and add a layer of complication to it. In this case, the property owner yesterday has proposed to revise the request slightly. So what is the how the exhibit B of your ordinance is currently written is to vacate approximately .008 acres, about 350 square feet.
 And they're proposing to reduce that by about 130 square feet. So the area in question is still the same, but it is being reduced. So with that in mind, the utility consents all carry forward since that's the same area, but actually a smaller amount and staff has identified no issues with it. So what I'm recommending council do is to amend the request to a revised exhibit showing what I just showed you on screen, that language has been provided to both the, the, the, the
 the city attorney and the city clerk so that they can incorporate that into an ordinance. Once amended, I do recommend that the easement be vacated subject to the one condition of approval that Mr. Williams outlined that the property owner is responsible for any damage to existing facilities. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe Nikki Luttrell is present as the applicant online for this item, Mayor. Thank you. Mr. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? Oh, sorry, Mayor. I may have changed to Nathan Crouch. Okay.
 That's good, too. Good evening. This is Nathan Crouch with Blue Associates. Indeed, just as Jonathan presented. Thank you. Okay.
 have you had any public comment or on anything Jonathan on any of this no Mary with easement vacation there's not notification since it's usually limited to a single I know sometimes you hear stuff I don't use it have you all heard him I've not heard anything it's right down the street from my house but I'm and I would bet that I would hear a lot of things if there was an issue yeah I haven't heard anything either okay cool
 All right, well then you want to take some public comment? Is everybody good with that? Sure you are. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. Give us your name and address and those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and then those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that. Who'd like to address us on this? Anyone?
 No one? Okay. Susan, do you have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. All right. Then we will bring it back to the council. I move to amend Exhibit B to the reduced area. Second. Okay. Any discussion on that amendment? Okay. Care which police call we're on? Harvey? Yes. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. In order to approve VAC 22-23 for property located at 680 North Samara Circle in Ward 4 to vacate a portion of the utility easement,
 before you do anything further I would ask the City Council to amend exhibits A and B as described by our development services director. We showed you the map already and there's a different change in legal description both of those need to be part of the ordinance. Okay. I move to amend to what Jonathan presented us with.
 Whatever you say. Whatever you say. I will say this is the first time I've ever heard of a vacation being made smaller at the request of the owner, but there's always a first time. There you go. Okay, care to please call. Who was the second? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon.
 Yes, we do Kurt. Yeah. Yes Scroggins yes Bench yes, Turk. Yes, Ericsburg. Yes Okay, I move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading third and final reading. Thank you second Motion second third and final reading care which please call Harvey yes Jones. Yes, Indian. Yes
 Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 22-23 for property located at 680 North Samara Circle in Ward 4 to vacate a portion of the utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Carriage, please call the roll. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes, we do Kirk. Yes Scroggins. Yes, thanks. Yes Yes, it's great. Yes Alright number five an ordinance rezone that property is only petition RZ n 22-0 for eight located at 1657 North Vanderveen Avenue in Ward 2
 for approximately 0.67 acres from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RMF 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section one.
 That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arc are hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RMF24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arc are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. JOHN GUTTAGELD, John.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in Ward 2. It's in what might be considered north central Fayetteville. It's between Gregg Avenue to the west and College Avenue to the east. Getting a bit more specific, it's about two blocks west of Gregory Park on the southwest corner of Sycamore Street and Van Deventer Avenue.
 The property, overall property includes two parcels, one of which is on Sycamore and is undeveloped and a second which is developed with a single family home that is upslope of that or to the south along Vandervinter Avenue. The property is fairly as characterized by a significant amount of slope. This is represented most clearly by almost being fully included within the hillside hilltop overlay district.
 The request of Council is to rezone the property from its existing RSF4 residential single-family 4 units per acre zoning designation to RMF24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre
 When it came to a land use compatibility standpoint, staff was a little bit of two minds on the issue, or as it relates to the request, the property does have, as I just noted, a fair amount of topography and staff's initial consideration was that maybe a more incremental rezoning change may be more appropriate,
 and evaluating the overall area, including a significant number of varied residential uses, duplexes, multifamily buildings, and single family homes, all of which are allowed in the RMF zoning district.
 and the availability of services both to the east and to the west beyond Sycamore and along College. Staff ultimately felt like this request is compatible and an appropriate place for increased density and potentially additional residential land uses
 From a long range planning standpoint, planning staff did find the request to be consistent with the future land use map for this area. While it is split between two designations, city neighborhood area and residential neighborhood area, the vast majority of the property is within the residential neighborhood area, which is a lower intensity generally designation.
 But it does have the potential to include or encourage a spectrum of residential uses which is ultimately what staff leaned on when finding this request to be consistent with a future land use map.
 Staff similarly felt that this was carried through with the infill rating of the property. Again, it has access to quite a few amenities. There is transit available nearby, both at ORT and Razorback. Gregory Park is to the east, Gull Creek is to the west, just across Gregg, excuse me, and Woodland Junior High, of course, is located further to the north.
 When looking at it beyond those two issues of land use compatibility and planning goal consistency, there were two main issues that stood out to staff, the first of which is street infrastructure. While Sycamore is a fairly fully built out street, albeit with a sidewalk at the back, a curb, and some bike lanes.
 Van Deventer is a very different situation. It is open ditch on both sides of the street and fairly narrow. It probably would not accommodate on-street parking. The second question was one of terrain. As I noted, the property is almost wholly within the hilltop overlay district. This is the exhibit that I shared with council on Friday. I wanted to just touch on this again if you didn't have an opportunity to look at it.
 The site as a whole has a cross slope going from southeast to northwest of about 17%. A lot of that is really captured in something of a shelf that runs from northeast to southwest across the property diagonally. So if you have the opportunity to visit the property, you probably saw that there is a relatively level area on the south end of the property, which is at about an 8% slope and something similar as you get closer to south.
 but there is certainly a fair amount of slope across the site and that HHOD designation is earned. With all those considerations in mind, staff ultimately landed on supporting the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly. Similar to the last item, there was not a significant amount of discussion by the Commission. They felt that the request was consistent with our land use policies and forwarded it to City Council recommending approval.
 There were quite a few public inquiries leading into the Planning Commission.
 Some of those were, those were all by phone and we didn't get them in writing until after staff's report was published for the planning commission. So there was one piece of written item that we had to forward to the planning commission separately. That was included in UL's packet, however, and that was more explicitly in opposition to the request. There was concern about the state of Vandeventer specifically and concern that I think the children living at the resident's property
 could be imperiled by having additional development on this street. There's also a member of the public who attempted to speak at Planning Commission, but we weren't able to, they're attending virtually and they weren't able to either unmute themselves or otherwise communicate. So generally the public comment has been inquiries and expressions of concern though.
 With that, I'm available for any questions that council has. Robert Rhodes is present, mayor, as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Robert Rhodes Would the applicant like to speak for council? Robert Rhodes Good evening, mayor, council. My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill and I represent the landowners. Thank you for hearing this out.
 I think as we go through this project, you'll realize that not only is the project presently compatible with the surrounding area, but it also hits squarely on four of the six future goals of the city. True, the subject property is in the middle of an RSF4 neighborhood.
 But then you just go less than a block in three different directions and you find, as the city zoning map indicates, RMF 40 and two different areas of RMF 24, which is what we're asking for, as well as industrial close by. This property is on the corner of Sycamore and Vandervetter, and it consists of one lot that is currently undeveloped and another lot with a home in great disrepair.
 So, as I mentioned before, if the city sets out to get goal number one, appropriate infill and revitalize the city by encouraging development or redevelopment of vacant or undeveloped property, well, this piece of property hits that to a T. Further, this particular property, at the density we're looking for, hits the goal number two, discouraging urban sprawl. Regarding goal number four, livable transportation network,
 this corner of sycamore and vandiver presents an excellent opportunity to connect residents to work school recreation without the need of a car as it is well positioned between midtown and uptown fayetteville as in fayetteville's retail office and medical communities to the north and east
 then with Wilson Park, downtown Fayetteville, and the University of Arkansas all close by and accessible without a car via Razorback Greenway and also the Ozark Regional Transit.
 Lastly, this also hits goal number six, creating opportunities for attainable housing. It's not just me telling you that this project hits the city's goals. The staff report also indicates this project meets goals four and six, and it further goes on to say, quote, the request is generally aligned with several goals of the city plan 2040.
 Harking back to infill, this has a matrix score from 8 to 9 with a weighted score of 11.5 at the highest level. No wonder staff is supportive and the Planning Commission voted for it unanimously. The tree preservation for our request is 20%.
 However, keep in mind that there are easements on the property and the trees in those easements are not counted toward the developer's 20%. So in reality, at the end of the day, the property will end up with tree preservation greater than 20%. Although the petitioners for this rezoning have yet to do any architectural or engineering work, their intention for the property is townhomes and no more than nine.
 no more than three stories high, with the first story being underground rear entry garages on the high side, thereby taking advantage of the property's topography.
 With your approval of this project, the city gets a rezoning that is compatible present day and dovetails nicely with the city's future land use, which is city neighborhood and residential neighborhood, which both encourage greater densities than RSF4. And even more importantly, presently, you will get infill and the meeting of four of the six goals of the city. I thank you and I stand by ready to answer any questions you might have.
 Okay. Does the council have any questions for the applicant or the staff on this? No? Okay. Well then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. And those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first.
 then those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak after that who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber okay susan who do you have on zoom no one mayor okay i'm going to bring it then back to the council what discussion or action items would the council like to have and or take
 So this afternoon I drove around some of the locations that we're discussing tonight. And I think it would be very helpful to actually have a tour at this place. The topography is very challenging. And I think, and also as Jonathan mentioned, Van Deventer has an extremely narrow street. And so that's what I would put out there for my fellow council members.
 let me ask a question jonathan did you have any public comment have you heard had any public comment on this item how many
 Help me out here. Not since the Planning Commission forwarded it. There were several inquiries leading up to the Planning Commission and there was a written statement of opposition that was received after staff's Planning Commission report was published. That's included in Council's packet. I believe it's the very last page of the packet. And then there, of course, was what I mentioned, the resident or the attendee who was trying to comment online at the meeting wasn't able to connect. So yes, short answer.
 Okay, Mike have you and Mark had anybody contact you on this? No, sir. And because you had asked at the agenda meeting I contacted a couple people in the neighborhood and and received no opposition from them Okay, what about you? I hadn't heard a thing. Okay Okay All right Well, what would y'all like to do? You know, I'm I
 I don't know. I mean, I'm all for going on tour if we need to, but I think people are, I mean, I'm familiar with where this property is, and I don't know if we're not hearing a lot of complaints from the neighborhood, and it's, you know, I'm kind of, and Mike reached out to people in the neighborhood. I'm kind of, I don't know, I'm kind of thinking we should go ahead and vote on it.
 Okay, move suspend rules and go to second reading second Motion second go to the second. We care what you please call the wrong Harvey. Yes Jones. Yes, Indian Yes, we occur. Yes Scroggins. Yes, yes No Hertzberg, yes, I
 In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-48 located at 1657 North Vandiver Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately two-thirds of an acre from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RMF 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre. I think I would like to request that we go ahead and hold it here if possible. I'd like to go on the tour
 and then also give neighbors a chance to have some more public input and it could be that everybody's fine with it which would be great but if everybody's okay with that I'd like to hold it here I'm good with that okay well we'll just hold it there all right
 let's move along to number six but that is to be tabled correct jonathan that's correct mayor i heard from the applicant yesterday who had a conflict they weren't able to avoid that they would like the item to be tabled to the council's december 20th meeting agenda uh
 With that in mind, I'm of course available for questions and I did want to note to council that there were of course a fair amount of public comments on this one so I don't know if the residents are aware. I don't think they were aware that the tabling request had come in so they may be in attendance. Okay. All right. Let's see. So we're going to table it. Is anybody here to speak on this one?
 Yes. Okay, well, I'm going to give you a chance to speak. Do we need to read? Why don't we go ahead and put it on the second reading? Okay. And maybe we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Did you read the title already, Mayor? Yeah. Okay, I guess I need to read the body. Well, I thought the reason I didn't read the title that we were going to come out of the shoot and just table it. But since we've got people here, let me just read the title and then you read the body.
 Okay, number six, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 22-045 located west of North Box Avenue in Ward 3 for approximately 1.81 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to R I 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre. Okay, Ken.
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RI-12, Residential Intermediate, 12 units per acre. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay Jonathan go ahead and give your presentation because we got folks here to speak on this. I didn't prepare a visual presentation given the applicant's request if the council likes it. Okay so I'm gonna take some public input from the folks here. Is that alright with everybody? Do we need to move it to second reading or just leave it here? What do you want to do? Alright let me get some public comment here then we'll decide what we want to do.
 These folks sit here all night. Y'all go ahead. Come on in.
 Thank you for letting me speak. You're absolutely welcome. My name is Jim Salmon and I live at 2222 North Box. And I've actually lived in that area for over 30 years off Crossover. And my concern is public safety. That road is extremely busy, 45 and 265. And it's a single entry road on Box. So not only is the traffic very heavy, we have the school traffic there, so children are at risk.
 There's a business there, Firestone, right on the corner that has a lot of issues too. And I did send some video. I hope people got that to look at, the actual traffic, some dangerous kind of things that were going on, people trying to turn in against traffic, getting frustrated and taking a chance and actually almost got hit by a truck doing that.
 The contention that this is a walkable area is not reasonable. If people would go down and visit the crossovers at 265 and Crossover where they intersect, there's cars turning on that all the time. And the actual businesses are not pedestrian friendly. It's not set up. There's a high traffic into those areas and there's no safety measures.
 you know, areas for people to walk to get to those businesses safely. So I think when we talk about Vox Avenue, it's a very small, tiny road. It's barely two cars can get by each other. And you're talking about adding probably up to 20, 22 units of housing, which could be up to 40 cars or more to that area.
 So, I appreciate the council at least taking a look at this area and seeing the safety concerns that I have. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Hi, my name is Lori Salmon. I also live at 2222 North Box Circle. I walk my grandchildren to school every morning.
 because I can't imagine trying to drive to go pick them up. And if I did want to drive and pick them up, I have to go completely around as I can never get across the lane from Box...
 to go east on 45 because traffic, the line to turn south is so long and people do not leave a spot for you to be able to turn. There is a turning lane, but that turning lane has turned into the lane to turn south. So I am never given the opportunity to turn east off of Box.
 So I have to go at least a mile completely out of my way to be able to turn around to either go south or east. Also, the road is so narrow that even to put my kids as we're walking, we either have to walk on yards or the ravine, which is always messy and wet from the
 drainage from water and the schools are overly crowded so school parents come and try to park on box while they wait for their children to get out of school and the line is quite excessive and I don't know if you've seen any of the video that was sent to you all and to the planning committee
 So I think to go that much of a change of housing units per acre is really pushing it, as well as the Illinois River trash. I know that's not a whole lot of concern, but the Illinois River does run to the west of our house.
 And it floods quite often. I have never seen anybody try to cross the street walking pedestrian-wise to go to all the multiple shopping areas. And I hope you keep that in mind because it is a very dangerous intersection. And Box is like 500 feet from the intersection of Crossover and 45. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else like to address. Good evening. My name is Tom Smith on the house at 2 1 9 8 Box Avenue. And I agree with everything they've said. And it seems like the board members and everyone agrees there's a place for expansion and infill and higher density people need housing. But this is not the place for our 12. I mean, there are places that can go 24.
 This is just not the place for that type of development.
 It's hard to speak in public. I'm not very good at this. It's okay. Take your time. But it's like Ms. Sandman was saying, this is probably the busiest little spot that I have witnessed in Fayetteville in this particular section. And I heard a lot of talk from the developers that said, you know, this is a great place because you can walk.
 to all these places, you can't. You don't see people crossing the highway down there, even though there are walk places, walk signs, but nobody wants to cross that road. And if they do, they're scared to death every time they see someone crossing there. So there's not places to walk to get to, like the supermarket, you can't get there. And like she said also, there's no place, you can't even get two cars to go down to.
 I really don't see, I can't understand, I've seen pictures of the proposed buildings that go there, but I know there's no accountability, or there's nothing that
 binds them to build that particular proposed building once it's rezoned and I feel like what's going to happen is going to completely ruin the neighborhood and go to a R12 when they're actually what it seemed to me is they were wanting to put five to six It looks like they have adequate zoning at a r4 to do what they had proposed to do and
 or at least if they had to step up to a six, but R12, it just seems ridiculous. And I hope that y'all have, go take a look at it, look at all the videos at the time the traffic is there and really take a look at the neighborhood because this just to me does not look like a neighborhood that has a high rise apartment building. And of course I've said that's not going to be built there,
 But I don't see why you would need a 12 per square acre or per acre when it looks like a lower number would suit their needs. That's really all I can say. Thank you. No, no, no, no, no. Don't yell from the background. Come on up to the monitor. Hi, my name is Susan Smith and I'm the owner of 2198 Box Avenue. I'm just going to reiterate everything everybody said that I.
 intersection trying to turn on the box you need to go try that at three o'clock or at 430 or at five o'clock people come off of the hill on 45 hit that center turn lane and you're trying to cross there needs to probably if this goes through there's going to have to be some kind of a stoplight put in or something because you will have 10 12 cars lined up
 and down the street on both sides during school time. It's a dead end street. I mean, it comes down to our mailboxes and that's the end of where it is. And then Mr. Solomon's house is just down below. We had the easement put for them to be able to get down there to their property.
 There's no place for children to play. You put 12 houses in there, where are they going to park? Are they going to put garages behind the house? There's no room on the street for parking, maybe one car, but if somebody's coming down the street, you've got to wait. You can't get around. It's just not a good location.
 to put that many houses in one space i know it's close to everything it sounds wonderful on paper go drive it go see it during school time just regular busy times of the day it's almost impossible and i don't think that would be a good fit thank you thank you okay is there anybody else susan do you have anybody on zoom
 No, sir. Okay. Well, do you want to advance it now to the second rating or something? I'd actually like to hold it here, and I would encourage my colleagues to go drop around and see this dead-end street.
 um and there is there's absolutely no room to turn around there's no circle at the very end it's very narrow as the citizens have just spoken okay what's the council members reward three yeah i'm i'm in favor
 Now, Jonathan, just to refresh my memory, what is that creek behind there? It's not the Illinois River. It's Floyd Creek, but that does ultimately, yes, it is attributed to the Illinois River. It's an odd little beast over there. It's a really unusual street and feeds out into a state highway and it is crowded there.
 everything they've said is true about the turn lane people getting into the turn lane at the top of the hill instead of you know and using it to turn left you know I'm sorry I misspoke Flynn Creek not Floyd Creek Flynn Creek same
 So I used to live on East Oaks and I've walked from East Oaks to McDonald's. I've actually walked to Firestone, routinely walked to La Huerta. That area you can walk and I walked with my kids. So to say it's an absolutely unwalkable area, it's not true. I think the traffic there is probably slightly worse.
 than East Oaks township I think every area is bad in there and the reason it's bad is because people are building out in the middle of nowhere and they're driving in and it's kind of weird that we like the symptom is the reason that we're gonna not take take a cure so I
 I've been down the street, I went down the street a couple days ago when I saw some emails about it. I think a developer really needs to look at
 possibly buying the land that is north of the bank Ozark subway. Because I think that whole area could be useful if they open up another path from box over to crossover, that would probably make a whole lot more sense than trying to get it just out of box.
 I think I would probably hold out and not vote for this, hoping that somebody would do that opposed to what they're trying to do now. But it is kind of walkable. And there are a lot of things by their Walgreens, Walmart, neighborhood market. And I've walked.
 personally myself and my family around those and then we did a rezone on well we actually turned down a whippoorwill Lane but they did some construction there everybody that was working there walked from there to all these places and eat so you could see people walking quite a bit there but I'll probably vote
 against it solely because I really wanna see a developer go over to Crossover. I think that'd make a lot more sense. But you kind of have to turn right out of there. I do agree left is difficult. Although if somebody was living there, they'd probably wanna turn right to work in the city. So it's one of those.
 weird things that the symptoms may be the reason we don't take the cure which is to build in the city so thanks okay so if y'all want to leave it on this first reading okay mayor Jordan we had a motion in a second to move on to the second reading we did okay I will withdraw my motion and oh good
 Okay, so we're good then. I'm moving on. All right, number seven, a resolution to authorize the establishment of child care assistance program utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds in the amount of $500,000 to provide assistance with child care expenses for low to moderate income families facing financial challenges
 due to COVID-19 and to approve a budget adjustment. Paul. We're bringing this forward. The administration is bringing this forward to directly help with child care, which is an issue in the city.
 The appropriation would be $500,000. It would be administered by the city. It would be under Yolanda's jurisdiction. If you have specifics, I believe she would be here to answer any. But that's what the request is. And, again, we support it because it's direct assistance to individuals. Yep. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this one?
 This is important. Justine, maybe just a comment. I think this is really an important use of these funds, and thank you for bringing it forward, Mayor Jordan and staff. These next two or three are kind of important to me. And I mean, I know they are to you too. But let's take some public comment.
 uh everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak after that who in the chamber would like to speak on this one
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I wanted to step up here when I read the item because I'm so excited to see the City of Fayetteville look at the parents and their need for child care. I don't know how often you look at the rates for child care, but just for after school from 3.30 to almost 6 o'clock for two children, it's about $250 a week.
 You know, when you're a single working parent, how can you afford that? I mean, you can't get off early enough, right? So when you're making a minimum wage amount, how do you afford that care? So I take a look at it as it's constantly keeping someone and causing the inability for them to move forward and advance their family forward.
 When I first moved to Fayetteville, which my sister had already lived here for 25 years, I was like, oh, I'm finally here. I've been trying and trying to get here for so long. And we had been paying $65 a week in the little town we were living in before we moved up here for child care. It went from $65 a week to $250 and in some cases $300 a week.
 So I just wanted to share that with you in case you don't have younger children that receive child care. So again, I appreciate the city of Fayetteville recognizing the parents and especially the single parents out there that have the need that this will allow them to go forward with their lives and to advance their family farther as well. Thank you so much. Thank you, Kara. Who else would like to address on this one?
 Do we have anybody on Zoom, Susan? Sarah Moore. Okay, go ahead, Sarah. Hi, Sarah Moore, Ward 2 Fayetteville. I'm very excited about this program, and I think it's a great use of these funds. I echo some of the sentiments of Kara. I am the parent of a 6- and a 10-year-old, and she's very right. I mean, the cost for child care, prohibitive for people of many different income levels, so it's very exciting.
 I just had questions at how we arrived at this particular program. I was curious if there was an assessment of the availability of childcare and I wondered how the 500,000 was arrived at and how many individuals.
 we thought that we would service versus what the need is. So how much of that gap are we potentially going to be able to cover? And then also with the format of this program, the providers that are available, are they going to receive these funds in the manner that we would be able to provide them? If that's something that could be discussed tonight or in the future, I'd be very appreciative. Thank you. If Yolanda's online, I'd like for her to answer the questions.
 Thank you, Yolanda. Yes, I am. The program is set up to, of course, assist individuals that are living under income. Just to give you an example, a family of four making $66,950 would qualify. So there would be an application. We would verify income. And this is for individuals that live, work, or go to school in Fayetteville.
 And so then we would, they would actually have either, if they've already got somebody, their children are already in daycare, they would qualify. If they're trying to find daycare, they would qualify. So then they would just present us with the actual daycare provider. We would reach out to that daycare provider to ensure that they are willing to participate in the program so that we could set them up as a vendor with the city. And then we would, uh,
 start, you know, get them a program and start paying their costs. Now, as far as how many individuals, that's very difficult to determine because depending on the number of children, the ages of the children, the cost of the daycare varies. So we will continue to assist individuals until we have an actual commitment for the whole 500,000.
 because you all are correct, it is very expensive. I mean, if somebody has a newborn, that's $1,500. It can be as high as $1,500 a month. And so a lot of these families are kind of stuck. They're not moving forward. They're not advancing because that burden is too huge.
 So then where they could be a two-income family, they can't be because it doesn't make sense to just have one of the parents working maybe to be able to just pay for daycare. So the hope is that with a year's worth of assistance, that will give them some breathing room.
 to reassess, to move forward so that they can be successful in reaching the goals, whatever they may be. So it just would be a relief so that they can move forward and progress.
 I hope that answered all the questions. If there's any other questions, please, if I missed something, let me know. Yolanda, that was very helpful. It actually spurred more questions. Sorry, I have a few more. And so let me ask you this. You said one year. And so I'm curious when this opens then. Are we just opening the floodgates for 30 days and then
 everyone's going to try to apply and then we'll pick those folks. And so those select few will get a year's paid childcare. I don't know if we've considered that, like how many people that might potentially be. And I didn't know if there was the potential that we were going to create any ceiling or any kind of like, you know, top amount that we'd be willing to pay out of this fund. I'm just curious with what you said about the 1500 a month.
 Well, that could be for a newborn, but I don't know. It depends on what the family makeup is. So each applicant will be unique
 to their needs, depending on the number of children, the cost of their daycare. So as soon as it's approved, we're ready to go with a flyer, start taking applications. We have to verify income. We have to work with the service provider to ensure that they want to participate in the program. The payments will be made directly to the service provider.
 But I, so are you thinking that there'll be a run on the program and then only those that we can afford to cover with the 500 will be the ones that participate?
 Is that what you're asking? Well, that's my concern. When I think about other social programs that get given out locally, what happens is they get a disbursement. Everyone hears that X person has funds, say for rental assistance or utility assistance. They get a massive amount, a dump of applications, and everyone lines up and not everybody even potentially gets applied before they close because they know they've already taken over an overabundance.
 And so I'm just trying to think through the challenges we have to fully get this out in an equitable way communications-wise and all the different languages and to the different markets of need. Right. And so we'll be pushing that out in every method that we can do it.
 And we will do it in languages, different languages, so that folks can be aware that this is happening and that they can apply. Now, if we reach the max of the 500,000, then I guess it would be up to those decision makers to see if they want to increase that dollar amount.
 Do we have like a matrix to create certain criteria of certain individuals that we want to make sure we serve in our community? I know that ARPA was written with the intent and purpose to help disproportionately impacted parts of our community. And I understand we have different income guidelines. We have certain parts of our population that have been more harmed, like our BIPOC community. Okay.
 And so I'm just wondering as part of this program, if we have that in place. And I'm sorry I've taken up a lot of time. I'll be quiet. Well, I mean, but Sarah, everybody's five minutes. So I'm sorry, but your time's up. Unless the council gives you more time. Yeah, Sarah, if you'd like to visit with me, you know, that's fine. Just give me a call or we consider an appointment, whichever works for you. I don't see anybody else on Zoom there. Okay. All right. Let's break back to the council. Okay.
 I move we approve the resolution. Second. Okay. Any final comments? Just quickly, I agree that hopefully moving forward a lot of these things can have metrics set up in place beforehand just with ARPA and some of the other things people feel like they don't know.
 They don't know how to apply. They don't know what's available. So if we're gonna give out $25 per person that applies for a lot of people, that's not worth their time. But if they're gonna give out a thousand per person, then that is. And so if they're thinking it's 25 and so they don't apply and then find out other people are getting a thousand a month and they're gonna be kind of
 I'm going to definitely vote for this. I think this should move forward. And I think some of the other items we're about to cover should move forward as well. But metrics and so people know because right now if somebody was listening to us, they don't even know how to apply. I don't even know if we have that set off. So just kind of moving forward, hopefully that's something we can do. Thank you. Thank you, Chris. I think we have a couple more questions.
 I just want to make sure that everybody understands everything is in place to move forward. We have a flyer in place. We have the application in place. We have the vouchers in place. We have the child care provider participation letter already created. We also have a methodology to verify that the children, once they've signed up, that they are actually attending. So we will be monitoring that. We have also set up a schedule to track
 who's being provided the assistance, the children, the ages, and just information on everyone that is utilizing the program. So all of that is set and ready to go. Yeah, okay. Any final comments? Thank you to...
 The city staff for putting this together. And for me, I'm not a parent, but I do hear I'm somewhat aware of some of the challenges that care mentioned about childcare. And so I know a lot of families in Fayetteville will definitely appreciate this because again, it's, it's a challenge. It's a burden on a lot of families. And so being able to help alleviate some of that burden, at least that's that, you know,
 That's good. That's good to know. And so I, of course, fully, fully support this. Well, you know, Council, if you want to put more into the program, we can put more into the program. I'm just trying to get us something out there right now to get this flowing. So is it perfect? No, but it's going to help and it's going to start. And then if we as a collective group want to add more to.
 supporting child care I'm all in favor of that it's a giant whatever we can do to help people it's a giant step in the right direction and I'm sure the families of Fayetteville will certainly appreciate it mayor Jordan okay there's not anything else care which is called Harvey yes Jones yes Indian yes we took her yes Scroggins
 yes yes Eric yes Hertzberg yes thank you all very much all right number eight resolution to authorize mayor Jordan sign a sub recipient agree with the federal public library to implement a job scale work
 utilizing the American Rescue Plan Act funds in the amount of $1,258,579 and to approve a budget adjustment. Paul? Well, again, one of the major
 things that we wanted to address with ARPA funds at the beginning was to talk about workforce development, which was one of the mayor's priorities when we first talked about ARPA funds. So through these processes and through the selection process, we had a submission by the library to run a program to train people. This would train people to earn
 decent living to improve their lives. With that I'm going to ask Devin to introduce us because he worked on this very closely with the library and then I believe the library will have a very quick presentation. Thank you Paul. Mayor, Council, good evening. Devin Howland, Director of Economic Vitality, City of Fayetteville.
 Before I introduce Melissa Taylor with the Fayetteville Public Library, specifically she's the manner for their center of innovation. I wanted to touch on a few or three key aspects with this proposal. Our department worked closely with the Fayetteville Public Library to develop this proposal together. If you don't know my background, it's in workforce development for populations with barriers. So we've applied a lot of the principles that you see in the Department of Labor, that you see in our Fayetteville Workforce Center to this program.
 The first thing that we wanted to ensure that this program does is that it serves residents that need our helps the most. And we did that by rooting certain populations in our performance measures for this grant. Those populations are dislocated workers, those who have been laid off,
 low-income residents, underemployed residents, and historically disadvantaged and disproportionately impacted residents, as defined by the Department of Treasury's ARPA regulations that have already been referenced tonight. We also wanted to ensure that this provided job skill training assets in the city of Fayetteville that would lead to a job with a living wage, jobs that are actually open and in demand.
 And the presentation that's about to happen will get into those. And lastly, I wanted to mention that the assets that are being bought and acquired by these ARPA funds will be publicly available and long outlive the ARPA expenditure deadline of December 2026. They're not going anywhere, and that's the beauty of them being in the favor of a public library.
 Fayetteville has long struggled with access to technical education, and that is education that's outside of a four-year degree. And yet the library's expansion has changed that for the better. And so Melissa, are you ready?
 About eight minutes. Hi, good evening. I won't take up too much of your time at all. I know that we've all been working on this proposal for some time. I know you've all likely seen this already. So I appreciate the opportunity to maybe highlight a few of these areas.
 The first question is why have this kind of programming at a library as a lifelong librarian? My question is why not? For many it might sound strange and out of place to have this sort of programming at a library. But for 21st century libraries, this kind of thing is really nothing new.
 We've been working in workforce development for decades. We're librarians who are constantly helping people develop resumes, helping them with job searches, helping them create their cover letters and their CVs. We are on the frontline of workforce development already. In fact, the National Skills Coalition has highlighted public libraries as leaders in workforce development due to our accessibility, our free access to all of the public, and our ongoing initiatives to support digital literacies and bridge community connections.
 They also note that libraries have a unique advantage to help bridge any kind of equity gaps in the workforce because all of our underserved populations typically come to the library for free unfettered access to information and opportunities.
 So these are just a few testimonials from some patrons who have used the Center for Innovation and our newly expanded library. These are just a few things highlighting, you know, the library's impact on the community. But while workforce development initiatives can be found at nearly any public library, the Fayetteville Public Library certainly stands out with its unique spaces like our teaching kitchen and our Center for Innovation, which offers unprecedented access to equipment and programming opportunities.
 And, again, going back to that expansion, we pretty much doubled in size by creating our Center for Innovation and our teaching kitchen. And people are definitely using these tools and using these spaces. Since January alone, the Center for Innovation suites have seen over 4,500 reservations. Those have been in the last 11 months. More than half of those.
 are on our simulators. So over 2,300 people since the beginning of the year have reserved time to utilize our simulators and work their way through some of the curriculums available in the simulators. The kitchen has also shared similar successes. A great example being the collaboration between Brightwater and the Fayetteville High School utilizing the kitchen to offer certifications to high school students before they even graduate.
 And obviously, we're all here because the pandemic impacted many of these job sectors that we're going to be discussing. But it's also important to note that while this is all because of the COVID pandemic, these resources will be available for years and years and years to come. The library will still be there as a resource for workforce development and for job seekers.
 Outsourcing and automation is a thing as well. So that's why we're offering all these different unique opportunities for people to find meaningful career fields. So we're going to be trying to offer our community various certifications in food service and construction and information technology.
 Our goal is to really offer training that's going to make a lasting impact, a meaningful impact in the lives of our patrons. Our library programming is open to the public, but for this particular program, we will be targeting our underserved communities and our underserved populations through targeted community outreach and strategic partnerships.
 And these impacts on Fayetteville residents, like I said, will not be temporary. They will be long serving. This equipment is planned to last well more than a decade. And again, we're really trying to bridge these gaps in the community, bridge these education gaps and skill training gaps through offering training to the public for free.
 Our culinary arts development program will work to certify 300 people annually in the Kitchen Basics course. We also look to upskill current food workers by offering continuing education training, and we hope to create some bridge pathways to local employment opportunities through our business partners and through employment services.
 Current simulator opportunities are already at the library where we're developing some additional virtual learning simulations that will offer people accredited certifications in fields like HVAC, plumbing, solar energy, electrical, residential construction and more. And this workforce development proposal that we are putting forward here would just help us expand upon those things.
 And, of course, information technology is a huge, has a huge need in our community. I mean, the NWA Council has been working with their LifeWorksHere initiative, you know, trying to pull in people to cover these IT jobs.
 We support that initiative, but we really want to support our local community that are already here to help them gain the skills needed to achieve meaningful employment right here at their own library, at more flexible schedules, and with no cost incurring.
 And this is our proposal, just kind of a quick recap. This proposal would supply the library with additional simulation tools. It would supply the library with curriculums to support our kitchen instruction as well as our coding academy. And most importantly, it would support our library's digital library.
 It would support four full-time staff people to help us coordinate, manage and run these programs. I think that's the part that I really want to highlight is we could not do this without our staff and that's a big part of this component. And really that's all I have to say. Thank you so much for listening to us and I'm happy to answer any questions anyone might have about this proposal. Thanks. What questions do we have from the council?
 I have a quick question. This is Sonia on Zoom. Thank you so much, Devin, for bringing this forward and Melissa for coming to talk to us about the program. I think one of the big areas that I think helps to make a huge impact is to have the
 the connections with the job providers. So I'm wondering kind of what piece of the program is connecting you currently to job providers for those prospective employees?
 Sure, that's a great question. In addition to our strategic partnerships with local businesses and industries, we will also be working with the local workforce development departments as well as the Arkansas Small Business
 and technology center as well. So we'll be connecting not with just our community business leaders, but also with other organizations and institutions that are already in positions to help us bridge these gaps and help us connect people to employers after they finish up the programming at the library. Great, thank you, Melissa. Another question for Melissa.
 Let's open it up for the public. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. Just give us your name and address, and those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to address us on this? Okay. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay.
 Okay, then I will bring it back to the City Council Any questions I move we approve the resolution second Yeah, if we get a second, I'm sorry. Okay Good Carriage please call the roll RV. Yes Jones. Yes, Indian Indian Whittaker yes
 scroggins yes bench yes turd yes hertzberg yes thank you council this is going to help a lot of people it's a good thing okay on to number nine resolution to approve six american rescue plan act non-profit assistance applications in the total amount of three hundred and twenty four thousand eight hundred ninety dollars
 75 cents to provide economic assistance to nonprofit organizations utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds. Well, one of the other programs that we discussed with the council and council indicated that supported was reimbursing non-for-profits who could demonstrate losses and we're bringing forward first increment of that here's $324,000
 The specific organizations are listed. Mount Sequoia Center, Incorporated, the Clinton House Museum Symphony of Northwest Arkansas, Northwest Arkansas Jazz Society, Batefield Public Library,
 who demonstrated losses on St. James Missionary Baptist Church. We carefully worked with all of them to ensure that they sent us or provided us proper documentation so we could support these expenditures with ARPA funds. And so we're requesting the council to approve that disbursement to these
 non-for-profit showing loss. Now one of the things I'd like to show you, could we get up this slide for me, that Theresa Turk asked me if I would provide a status report to all of the council members of exactly where we were right now in ARPA funding.
 Hopefully every one of the council members got a copy of this. We sent it out this morning After all of the disbursements we have roughly four point eight million dollars left
 However, part of those identified were encumbrances, so depending on if we have more applications approved and some of the things that you already appropriated money for, we can add to that. So we could have as much as $5.2 million depending on the final applications. We intend to bring some more.
 organizations who demonstrated losses roughly $250,000 worth of them at the next meeting. We've been working very hard with the not for profits to obtain the documentation that we were comfortable with to make sure that the Harper disbursement was proper. So with that, I'll be happy to take any questions. What questions we have Paul?
 Just a comment, Paul. Thank you for putting that spreadsheet together. It really helps me measure where we are right now and what's remaining. So I appreciate that information. And as the mayor indicated forward, we still got five million dollars out there. It doesn't have to be committed for a while. We can look at programs that the council is interested in. For example, when we talked about the child care,
 If we have sufficient demand, we come back later and the council can decide asking money for that. If there are any other programs we want to look at, we can consider those things. But that's where we are right now. And I would request that the council approve this. And again, we're going to come with some more reimbursements to non-for-profits at the next meeting. Paul, thank you for providing this end.
 My question is, and maybe we've already addressed it, I'm not sure, but I just wanted to ask you, what if there is another nonprofit that wants to apply but didn't meet the initial deadline? Is that possible, or are we just looking at those nonprofits who have failed?
 met the deadline well we've had some discussion not now with the entire council at this point in time but I know there has been interest talked about other periods of time for an application so we could we could look at a program another program to discuss part of that and appropriate it we could use part of the funding I anticipate that we're going to use in total
 So, out of the $900,000 we have appropriated for the reimbursement for non-for-profit losses, right now we've got $350,000. We've got another two that's up to $600,000. We still have $600,000. So we could talk about opening up another program for another period for someone who has not applied. Okay. Thank you. Is there anything else?
 What are the nonprofits that fall in the category tonight? I know you mentioned St. James Baptist Church, but maybe there was one or two others. I don't remember. Oh, they are listed. I see them. They're listed. There's, I believe, six of them. Yeah, thank you. I saw it. Thank you. Thank you. Okay.
 That's a good segue for me. I just want to thank Paul and Stephen and everyone who worked on these applications. Five of the six are in the creative economy, and I'm very happy to see that because there was such a big impact on the creative economy. So I'm very glad to see these applications.
 these organizations go ahead and really forward to press to get their funds to them. So thanks, everyone, for your work. OK, let's take some public comment. Then if I gets one turn to speak, you have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. And those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and
 then those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber tonight on this topic? Okay Susan who do you have on Zoom? I have Riley Nicholson. Okay go ahead.
 Hello, and thanks for your consideration today. I'm Riley Nicholson, the executive director of the Assembly of Northwest Arkansas. We're right behind the courthouse at 217 East Dixon Street. I want to say that I appreciate your time today and your consideration and encourage you to vote yes to support this.
 I know that we are voted in block, and so we're just one of several applicants here. So I'll be brief. But as was mentioned, a lot of the applicants are part of the creative economy, and especially those that have ticket sales like us.
 As no surprise to you, our earned revenue came to a halt during the pandemic, and we were able to weather due to philanthropic partners and support like PPP. However, once we were able to come back to our venues, we still have not returned to pre-pandemic box office sales yet.
 So, this is still a matter that is greatly affecting us, and it's not just the symphony. It's, and it's not even just our region. This is industry-wide. Ticket sales are still 30 percent down. So, your support through this measure will help us continue to weather this challenge that's presented to us. And I just, again, like to recognize that, like all of, you know,
 and these other cultural organizations and socially minded organizations, you know, we greatly enhance the quality of life in our region. So thanks for your consideration and for your support today. Thank you. Who else? No one else has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, then I'm gonna bring back to the council. If there are no questions, I move we pass the resolution. Second. I had a comment. Sure. If I can still make it.
 I really appreciate more than you will ever know. When I look at the list and I see the St. James Baptist Church, all of you know that during COVID, that they were on the front lines of the pandemic feeding the community. And I believe that the St. James food pantry is the fastest.
 growing food pantry in the region, probably the state. And so I know that not only the church will appreciate it, but the community as well, because from what I, back in 2020, I had the opportunity to volunteer and dropping food off and to see, it was bittersweet because the opportunity to
 be a blessing and provide food, that was good to see, but the challenge was the fact that we live in a community where there is a shortage of food. And so I think that, you know, with that being said, this is certainly going to be a benefit to not only St. James, but the entire community as well, because food, of course, is the universal fuel for life.
 And so St. James has provided that continuously.
 especially during the COVID, especially during COVID dropping food off and unfortunately exposing themselves as well. And so I do appreciate the city being both intentional and deliberate as it relates to making sure that we're caring about our citizens and we are addressing hunger.
 relief by making sure that a st. James food pantry is being funded we have a motion second correct okay care would you please call the wrong Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon Kenyon wait occur yes Scroggins yes yes yes Kurtzberg yes
 All right, let's go on to number 10. A resolution authorized the city attorney to seek condemnation in possession of certain lands owned by the Moon Family Trust needed for the West Transmission Water Main Project. Tim. Thank you, Mayor and Council. Beaver Water District intends to build a western water distribution point near Highway 112 and the newly constructed Springdale Northern Bypass, which is Highway 612.
 This facility will supply a Western water transmission fee to all four of the customer cities helping with hydraulics, redundancy and overall utility resiliency. Fayetteville has an 11 mile connection to this proposed facility that's been identified in water master plans for many years. The project is currently being designed with construction plan to begin in late 2024. For this reason, staff recommends that the city attorney file for order.
 a possession over the property owned by the Moon Family Trust. And I've got my pages mixed up, I apologize. It is a 48 diameter water line which requires a 50 foot easement, which is necessary along the entire route where this water line will be constructed. This route is chosen specifically to be as unobtrusive as possible, following the property lines whenever possible.
 So the Moon Family Trust Easement consists of approximately 2.7 acres of easement area. The city has been tipping contacts since 2017, have made contact with realtors only. The appraisal of the property over the course of several years have been updated several times.
 The payment for land acquisition will be made for the proposed budget allocated for the easements in the amount of $131,800. It's listed as the cost of this request, but it should be noted this is just an estimate based on the appraised value, the cost of subject negotiation with the property owners if we contact them or by court order.
 This appraised value will be deposited into the registry of the circuit court as just compensation when the condemnation complaint is filed. And this item was presented to the water through committee on August the ninth of this year, with a three zero vote for forwarded to the council for consideration. You have any answer any questions? What questions do we have, Tim?
 i guess then we'll take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address and those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by then will be allowed to speak after that is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this topic okay do you have anybody on zoom susan no sir okay
 So, I'll bring it back to the council, what's the wishes of the council, or discussion, or... I should note to the council that this looks to me like a fairly difficult condemnation. If you look at the added information, not just the text in the agenda packet, it's been very difficult to have any contact whatsoever with the owners. You can't have contacts hard to negotiate. We'll have to find them just to serve them.
 So, and also this is a property owners that I don't think are even in this county, but I know they're not in the city. And this is a very big line going through their property. And this is one of many condemnations that we could very well be facing. I just wanted you to know it's different than some of the other ones. The next condemnation coming up is much different than this one. It's in Fayetteville and it's only for a sidewalk.
 This is a very large pipe and a very large amount of land that we will need for our easement. It's essential not only as citizens of Fayetteville, but also Farmington and Johnson and all the way to Goshen, all of our water service area, we need to have this redundant supply coming from Beaver Lake. It's a very major project, a multi-million dollar project.
 And we need to get moving and that's why the water department is asking you to grant us, the city attorney's office, the right to file condemnation so that we can obtain possession of the property. So I think that's what we will do, but it's not going to be an easy one. We had many, many acquisitions we needed when we changed from one sewer plant to two.
 But we were able in that particular case to settle every condemnation without actually going all the way to jury trial. We got close a couple times, but we were always able to finally resolve the case. And I'm afraid in this particular situation, there's not going to be many of those resolutions because we won't be dealing with Fayetteville residents anymore.
 and maybe not even Washington County residents. So I just wanted you to know that we do need to have this approved tonight, but this is probably not going to be a very fast result. We will be able to eventually obtain possession of the land so the project can go forward. I would move approval of the resolution. Second.
 I had one a couple of questions real quick before we go forward and Tim I don't think I asked this at water and sewer but just to clarify the I
 the water pipe will be buried, correct? That's correct, yes. And then the second question is, have we looked at, when putting this line through, about the least intrusive way to go? In other words, is there a property line or some realignment that you all have considered and that just wasn't practical or, you know, because we are going to probably have a lot
 condemnations we do try to follow the property lines that is as unobtrusive as possible one of the problems that we've had here if you want to call it a problem is you know we first tried to get the easements around 412 across the 412 because we knew that it's developing and and so we've had some problems with having to realign some portions of this line which
 for various reasons either negotiating with a property owner and they said, well, we're good with it but we want a different alignment because of this or that. So that's been the case. We had a big easement that we already acquired that got taken away from us with a Highway 112 rotary watering with our dogs. So that was another problem we had to realign there. But no, with easements in general, you try to be as inattritional as possible and follow the property lines.
 Thank you. I thought you did that. I just wanted to clarify, but thank you so much. I think this has been on the drawing board for a long time and has had a lot of initial engineering work on it to see which would be the best ways, the least obtrusive to the landowners. But even so, we're still taking a lot of property when we go through. I think this is more two or three acres at least out of this parcel. I think these are fields, though, aren't they? So you'd think that wouldn't be too hard.
 But yeah, it can be. It has been on board for 12 years. Right. And this is our biggest line coming out of Beaver Lake, isn't it? It will be the biggest line. We have a 42-inch and a 36-inch. This will be a 48-inch line. Very essential line for all of our citizens and our neighbors that we serve. I have a quick question here for...
 someone so what once we if we put this in what are some of the things like you know people are always you know you can't build a house on this it but can you build a street across this or a fence line across this where this pipe is going to be buried underground you know because you
 I mean at some point in time this will probably be developed. In the easement itself we even say we're going to bury it deep enough or try to that you can actually farm on top of it. Yeah. You can't build like you say a structure.
 But you can build a fence. The fence might have to be moved, or we have to go in there and repair it, because we have the right to go back. But this is a very expensive line. It's going to be buried very deep, I believe. And it should be a very strong and long-lasting line. So hopefully repairs for it will be a long time before we ever have to go back. But you're right. Really, after it's all done, you won't know it's there.
 is that that right that's right in this particularly uh one we're talking about tonight there's already some other easements in the area uh parallel to this easement not belongs to water utilities but other easements as well so yeah so we have to avoid the other pipes that are already there okay thank you uh move to approve the resolution second
 i think we already did that we already did that let's do it again let's get going let's get going here you might need a couple of rubrics we have a we have a motion to say in the past we have two motions and two seconds harvey yes jones yes peter yes scroggins yes yes
 Yes. Yes. You can jump out early on this next one. Number 11, resolution to authorize city attorney to see common nation in possession of certain lands owned by White Rock Investments LLC needed for the Leverett Avenue sidewalk project.
 thank you mayor the elaborate avenue sidewalk replacement project is between hazel and sycamore the existing sidewalk is a very narrow at the back curb it's in in poor shape and is not ada compliant the proposed sidewalk is an eight foot wide walk with eight foot wide green space so much more comfortable walk there and we do have a lot of
 folks who walk along Leverett Avenue with all the college students, the bus route, etc. So all of the right-of-way has been acquired except for these last two pieces of property owned by the same property owner between Hazel and Holly. It's about a three-foot wide strip of property, so a very narrow strip of property. You might see on the drawings there we have a pretty large
 temporary easement on one of the parcels and that's so we can reconfigure the parking lot, add some new striping so that it works as well as it does now, even though we're shortening some of the stalls. So it will still function the same as it does.
 Similar to the last item, the request is for authorization for condemnation, so the process would be the same. The amount of the appraisal is $11,640, so that would be the amount we would
 deposit with the court when we request the order of possession. So if the council approves this, the city attorney will take over and we'll be able to move forward with bidding the project. And it's fully designed and ready to go to bid. Okay. Well, I've got to take a short time out here because I want to go back to the last item because I do not think I took public comment on that item. I didn't. I should have.
 So that's probably my fault. I broke in there. Sorry. Well, it's all right because I didn't take public comment and I think we need to condemn nation. So what do we do here? Kit, hang on, Chris. We'll get to you in a moment. Okay. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak after that now the topic is i'm going to go back to a the resolution 10 or resolution to authorize the city attorney to seek condemnation possession of certain lands owned by the moon family trust needed
 for the west transmission water main project is there anybody that would like to speak to it in the chamber susan do you have anybody on zoom no one on zoom is okay now i've covered all the bases now we can move on chris where were we you were about to take questions weren't you i'm ready for questions yes okay now we're all official do we have any questions for chris
 Well if we don't, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Then those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that.
 I don't believe we have anybody in the chamber. Do we have anybody on Zip? No, sir. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Move to approve resolution. Second. Second. Do we have a motion to second the pass resolution? Karen, would you please call the roll? Just for recording purposes, I heard Council Member Scroggins make the motion, and Council Member Bunch second, or was that Council Member Turner? That works. I did. I'm not here. I'm just happy.
 Thank you so much. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, well that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor I have two announcements. The city will host a blood drive tomorrow between 9am and 3pm on the Fable Square. So please come.
 Gibson Blood Saturday at Holcomb Elementary there will be the Underwood Community Park planning meeting between 10 and noon so that'll be Underwood Park kickoff for planning at Holcomb Elementary thanks and if you get a chance to go by and see the Lafayette historic bridge I highly recommend you check that mural out because I know that
 Councilmember Scroggins and Harvey. Did I get the right bridge? Good, I did good. Don't want to send you to the wrong bridge. That would be a bridge too far. Anyway, but Councilmember Harvey and I were there also and it was a really well attended celebration event. So it's really cool.
 So if you get a chance, I want to thank the university students and Olivia Trimble for all the great work that they did too. And the Arts Council and all the council members and my mom and dad and our dad anyway. But anyway, that concludes our business and we are adjourned. Thank you all.