I would like to call to order the December the 4 2024 City Council meeting care which police call the row dr. Jones here or here we here Arna here here here here here here Stafford here mayor Jordan here would you join me to pledge the lead
 of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. All right. The first order of business we have tonight is a service recognition for Councilmember Holly Hershberg. Holly, if you would meet me down here, please.
 It's your time. All right, this is service recognition and it reads, presented to Holly Hirshberg in recognition of your commitment to the citizens of the city of Federal Arkansas
 2020 through 2024 with sincere appreciation for your dedicated service as a council member on the Federal City Council. Now, I would like to say that Holly has been a tremendous council member for this council.
 She's been punctual. She came to all the committee meetings. She sponsored the ordinance review, bless her heart and all. But she's been a great asset to this city and to this administration. Holly, I want to thank you for all that you have done.
 Mayor, if I could say something really quick. Sure. Absolutely. Thank you, everyone. This has been a very fulfilling and rewarding experience. I've been privileged to work with each and every one of you. I'm very thankful to our incredible staff, our administration, and our awesome residents in the community.
 This was a difficult decision for me to make, and I'm still very emotional about it. But I just wanted to thank everybody for all of your support, and I wish everyone well. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the finance report by Paul Becker. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of October, so we've got two months remaining in this fiscal year. Property tax is up about 3% compared to budget on a year-to-date basis.
 Sales tax is down 6% compared to budget at this point in time. However, the monthly sales taxes were up compared to what we had been receiving, 4.9% for the city's one penny and about 5.3% for what we received from the county. So that was up a little bit. Franchise fees are still down about 4% of the budget there.
 Beverage tax is down about 4% the budget. Building permits are up 20% the budget through October. State turnbacks down just a little bit, about 2%. Fees for services, that's essentially parks, programs, things of that nature. And that was pretty flat. That was roughly 1% down. Court fees and fines are up over 20% compared to budget.
 Interest was up. We've been talking about the interest has been very good for us this year as interest rates are up on our investments. And that was up almost double what was projected at this point in time. Miscellaneous was up a little bit, the miscellaneous revenue, which is just a general catch-all.
 So, all in all, we're down about 3% so far in revenue for the budget at this point in time. As we're tracking going forward, I'm anticipating that our sales tax is going to pick up a little bit for the remaining months.
 We've had some pretty good sized football games in that period. So I anticipate that's going to pick up a bit. At this point in year end, I think we'll probably end up between $1.5 and $2 million in losses in total for the city, which is better than what I had projected previously.
 Street fund is down about 2%. Now, again, the street fund, remember that is turned back coming back from the state. It's the half cent sales tax allocated to streets. And it was also the motor fuel tax that's remitted back to the municipality. So that's not about 2% at this point in time.
 Parking fees parking fees are down about three point four percent for this This point in time They're getting us a little better, but they're still down a bit at this point in time H&R HMR fees are half percent over budget of the month itself is up over three percent for HMR taxes so although we started off with a very a
 soft beginning of the year that's been picking up a little bit so I anticipate we'll close out the year a little stronger than we are right now. Water and sewer is almost exactly flat to what the budget, what we had anticipated and budget that's the billings for water and sewer fees. Recycling and trash collection that's pretty fat flat too it's it's
 it's down roughly one percent but i'm not concerned about that so that's pretty flat the airport remember got off to a to a rough start as far as uh fuel sales uh were concerned we're still down about two percent as far as the actual flights are concerned but the sales are up in dollars compared to uh
 and compared to last year about 2.3 percent so that's coming back a little bit and with that i'll be happy to take questions you have any questions for paul on finance okay well i take it everybody's wasn't here for the finance report so uh must be something else all right
 Let's uh, let's go on with consent agenda number one approval of the November 7th 2024 City Council meeting minutes number two resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of sixty eight thousand two hundred dollars for recognizing and recognized additional revenue and associated expenses for certain parking facilities and services number three a
 a resolution to authorize an agreement of understanding with the arkansas department of transportation for the ruple road trail lighting project and to approve budget adjustment recognizing 315 193 dollars in federal aid funding number four a resolution to approve a contract with community access television
 incorporated DBA Your Media in the amount of $220,725 for the provision of public access television services and the operation of the public access television channel through 2025 contingent upon approval of the 2025 Annual Budget and Work Program. Number five, a resolution to authorize the application
 or a certified local government grant from the arkansas historic preservation program for 2025 in the total amount of seventy thousand three hundred and fifty six dollars for a city-wide windshield survey of historic properties historic district commission training number six a resolution to express the willingness of the city of federal to utilize federal aid surface transportation block grant funds in the amount of six hundred and fifty thousand dollars
 for the design environmental phases of the I-49 Stephen Carr Boulevard interchange.
 improvements project to approve a city match in the amount of $162,500 and to authorize the mayor to sign an agreement of understanding with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission and the Arkansas Department of Transportation for the project. Number seven, a resolution to approve amendment number three to the ARPA sub-recipient agreement with Peace at Home Family Center to revise the scope of work and project
 allocation number eight a resolution to authorize marriage ordinance sign a grant of conservation easement and declaration of covenants for 98 acres located on dead horse mountain road number nine
 A resolution to approve change order number four to the agreement with the Arkansas Department of Transportation in the amount of $4,804,799.30 for interstate 49 MLK interchange improvements and to approve a budget adjustment.
 10. A resolution to approve a contract with WashAway LLC in the amount of $40,000 for the utilities' financial services, offices, renovations, and expansion and to improve budget adjustment.
 Number 11, a resolution to award bid number 24-44 and to authorize contract in the amount of $1,583,718.71 with Milestone Construction Company LLC for the City Hall HVAC improvements to approve a project contingency in the amount of $300,000 and to approve budget adjustment. And number 12, a resolution to approve and adopt
 The Federal Fire Department Prevention, Investigation, and Public Education Policy. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Caravans, please call the roll.
 Jones yes more yes we occur yes Arna yes yes Turt yes Ertzberg yes Stafford yes okay an unfinished business number one a resolution to approve and adopt the urban forestry management plan
 John, I believe this is yours. It is. Thank you, Mayor. Let me get this pulled up. I have a presentation. There we go. Good afternoon, Council, Mayor, and attendees. I'm excited to present the Urban Forestry Management Plan to City Council for approval. Thank you for allowing us time to create a document that is innovative, forward-thinking, and unique to Fayetteville. I would like to thank all staff from other departments who contributed to the plan. Thank you.
 Code requires urban forestry analysis every 10 years, and we took this opportunity to set new canopy goals and ask ourselves some questions about Fayetteville's urban forestry.
 This plan is a tool for setting values and goals based on community input. It is not a detailed planting plan or rewrite of code. This plan is a roadmap for achieving urban forestry goals. We wanted an objective outside expert opinion to examine our programs. We need new guidance. Things have changed rapidly and this plan will help navigate us through urban forestry changes.
 The overall layout of this process was based on four main questions. What do we have? What do we want? And how do we get there? And how are we doing? When we talk about trees and goals, we consider canopy cover rather than individual trees. When we measure, we measure canopy. We do both when we look at individual sites, but for our plan, we use canopy and we take a top-down approach. We do not look at individual trees.
 To create this document, we shared all the available information with the consultant, Planet Geo. They collected data on employees, budgets, standard operating procedures, programs, history. The consultant completed an urban forestry audit and analysis. They also created a sample inventory of public trees, which are trees along streets, roads, medians, and in high use maintained city land, and a sample of private trees they could see from the roads. We included internal input. We asked city staff, boards,
 public officials for their input on the future of urban forestry. We reviewed other city plans. We reviewed them for guidance input and to ensure that our plans aligned with theirs and work together. Most importantly, we included public input.
 We had a survey available to the public and we presented this plan to various boards. We needed that input from the community to make this plan work. This plan is a testament to our commitment to the community demonstrating that we continue to prioritize urban forests. All of this information and more was processed to help create this plan.
 From the community input, we collaborated to create our vision to cultivate a thriving, diverse, and well-maintained tree canopy that enhances the livability, health, and sustainability of our community for current and future generations.
 From the vision came five guiding principles to base our goals, strategies, and priority actions towards. Equitable and resilient canopy cover. We aim to ensure that the tree canopy is evenly distributed throughout the city, promoting sustainability and resilience. Maintenance and management. Taking care of our trees is essential to continue to reap the benefits they provide.
 tree preservation and protection. We are committed to preserving our existing tree canopy as well as investments we've made in planting and maintaining urban forests.
 Funding and levels of service. Our funding levels will need to increase incrementally as we have to add more staff and programs. Community education, engagement, and stewardship. Urban forests require a collective commitment from both the city and the community, and we aim to educate and engage the community to foster greater stewardship of our urban forests. Each one of these guiding principles comes with goals, strategies, and priority actions.
 THE FIRST QUESTION IS, WHAT DO WE HAVE? OUR PREVIOUS GOAL FROM 2012 WAS 40% CANOPY COVER AND WE MADE SIGNIFICANT STRIDES TOWARDS THIS. IN 2019 OUR CANOPY WAS 39.4%. WE HAVE SEVERAL YEARS OF GIS DATA TO WORK WITH THAT INCLUDES 2013, 2015, 2017 AND 2019 WHICH HELP US TRACK OUR PROGRESS.
 Tree equity is a concept that's been on our radar for several years and is ingrained on how we decide where to plant new trees. It refers to the fair distribution of trees and their benefits across all communities. Our city scored 87 out of 100 in terms of tree equity. The consultant looked at our award-winning programs, events, and our vulnerabilities, which include development and land use, climate change, urban tree pests, and disease.
 Part of what we have includes a tree inventory. Our consultant did an inventory of public trees. They surveyed 2,712 public trees along streets, medians, parks, and high-use areas. The big takeaways is we have a young forest, our species diversity is in good shape, and pruning is our number one maintenance need.
 There are more goals and strategies outlined in the plan. I'm highlighting some of the most impactful goals from each of these guiding principles. Equitable and resilient canopy cover. Stakeholders stress the importance of setting and achieving citywide canopy goals to support the long-term health and sustainability of urban forests. A goal is to increase canopy cover and the strategy to do so is to plant 1,850 trees.
 Our 30-year goal is to reach 44.4% canopy cover, but our immediate focus is the 10-year goal of 40.6%. These canopy goals are based on Climate and Northwest Arkansas, the tree planting programs we offer, what our current canopy percentage is, and our current reforestation efforts and other aspects. To achieve the 10-year 40.6% canopy goal, we aim to plant 1,850 net trees.
 By net trees, we mean those trees that survive past their most vulnerable stages and reach maturity. This is a key part of our plan, and we're accounting for tree survivability in our planting targets. The example on the slide shows how this works. By starting with our maintenance capacity and including expected survival rates, we can calculate the total number of trees we need to give away or plant through our community programs to achieve our overall goal of 40.6.
 percent canopy goal. This flexible goal is unique because we only plant trees we can care for and include survivability in our goals. Maintenance and management. One of the goals is to prioritize public tree maintenance and tree risk management and the strategy is to assess public trees for maintenance needs and potential risk. Our maintenance has improved over the last few years and I'm confident it's headed in the right direction.
 Our next guiding principle is tree preservation and protection. Preservation and protection of existing trees was identified as a high priority by the community. One of the goals is to update and amend tree-related ordinances to support the citywide canopy cover goal and other goals in the plan. The strategy is to monitor and track tree plantings and removals. This will help give us the data to identify where our tree canopy losses and gains are.
 Our next guiding principle is funding levels, funding and levels of service. Currently, our overall funding in urban forestry for planting new trees has increased and is scheduled for incremental increases. This helps us stabilize our planting programs and gives us more opportunity to expand on programs. Thanks to council and the mayor for our funding. Thank you all.
 Our last guiding principle is community education, engagement, and stewardship. One goal is to continue to achieve Tree City USA status and other recognitions. A strategy was to continue to track programs and budget. Priority action was to track all the activities that we do in a year.
 Finally, the last of our questions is asked, how are we doing? This is a living document that is intended to change and it is intended to have information added and included. We are flexible to revise these plans as we need to. There are action items to be done on a timeline.
 BRINGING THIS BACK AROUND TO OUR FOUR MAIN QUESTIONS. WHAT DO WE HAVE? WE HAVE A CITY WITH CITIZENS THAT CARE ABOUT THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT DEEPLY. THE CITY OF FAYETTEVILLE HAS MOMENTUM MOVING FORWARD. A CITY THAT HAS MADE PROGRESS WITH URBAN FLORISTRY AND A BRIGHT FUTURE TO CONTINUE TO LEAD THE STATE.
 We don't win every battle in our trees, but this is a strong statement that we'll keep fighting for our trees in Fayetteville. What do we want? We want more canopy cover, equitable and resilient canopy and stable funding, continuing successful programs and creating new programs. How do we get there? We plant more trees, collect more data, use all of our tools and make equitable and resilient plans.
 How are we doing? We will evaluate, monitor, report, and revise as we find out new information that would collect more data.
 Your ongoing support of urban forestry is greatly appreciated. While I feel uncertain about many of our current challenges, Fayetteville's urban forestry program stands out nationwide, statewide, for its commitment to preservation, programming, funding, maintenance, and innovation. This positions us well to navigate the changes in environmental pressures impacting our city. I'm confident we are on the right track, and this plan will help ensure we stay the course. Thank you all. I'll be happy to answer any questions you might have. Thank you, John.
 What questions do we have? Any questions? Okay. All right. Well, then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the room?
 Nicole Lynn, Ward 3. I just want to talk to you about trees in general for a minute, not necessarily a specific, but it seemed like a good time. A couple things. First of all, we love our trees and we need to have a ton of them, that's obvious. They are not evenly distributed. I live in North Fayetteville in an expensive apartment and I've got trees everywhere. I have a beautiful trail right outside my backyard that is just trees. It's right in the middle of nature.
 Then you go down to MLK and it looks like, sorry y'all, nothing good. There's not a tree to be found anywhere. So I would just hope that as y'all look forward, y'all make sure that we get them more evenly distributed when we're looking at things down toward MLK South Fayetteville. We're looking at more trees coming in.
 Another thing is I find talking about tree cover a bit disingenuous after we just had that whole debacle with Fayetteville Public High School. And I know I've got some allies here that voted a way I would not like, but it just we didn't.
 We have an excuse for everybody to not do what they're supposed to do. We have an excuse for everybody to have an easement or something like that, and then it doesn't go with the plan. If we're going to be a town that's about the trees, then we have to always be about the trees, and Fayetteville Public High School can figure out what they need to do on their own. They could have split into two schools like everybody else has around here. And also, we don't hand out quid pro quo with our Fayetteville High School to get what we want and sacrifice the trees.
 So that is all I have to say about that. Thank you so much for your time and save the trees and put out more of them. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hi, my name is Hannah Ash and I live in Ward 3 and I'm also a member serving on the Urban Forestry Advisory Board currently. I actually read the Urban Forestry Management Plan from start to finish because I did kind of the final edits on the document before it went to y'all. So I can attest from seeing it and reading it from start to finish that I think it is a really good plan for the City of Fayetteville that covers all of the bases pretty much.
 It says everything that, as John said, there's a lot of data in it, more than I could ever honestly remember or present myself. There's so much in it that's great information, and I think it does a really wonderful job of presenting why Fayetteville is a great place to live and why it is going to continue to be a great place to live if we continue to honor nature and value trees the way that we do.
 It really does feel like it is kind of one of the last holdouts of being the natural state in this area of, you know, caring about trees against fighting against development. Kind of our last presenter kind of proved that that's, you know, a little bit of a tug of war and maybe not necessarily holding out in fighting against development. But as the rest of Northwest Arkansas seems to
 not care so much about their trees, it is nice to see that Fayetteville does. And I don't know that other areas in NWA have an urban forestry department or an urban forestry management plan, but it's very cool and unique that we do. And I do think this plan is a very good thing for the city.
 So just something to consider from someone who has literally, I don't know if anybody, how many people have read it from start to finish, but I literally read every word of that document. I can tell you that. And it was a lot of pages. So I'll yield my time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Council Mayor. I'm Dan Cootey, Ward 1, and I'm going to be the old fart curmudgeon here, and I want to say that I love trees. Lionel, you know I'm one of the strongest tree huggers in town. This is a great roadmap. It's even better than the previous roadmap, which was better than the previous roadmap, but we're still not doing what we need to in this town for our trees. I'm going to talk, I'm going to try to make three minutes, but I haven't been to a City Council meeting in 15 years. I hope you'll bear with me.
 As long as you stay within three minutes. I'm sorry? As long as you stay within three minutes. I'll do my best. Okay. But the trees we planted on College Avenue 20 years ago have never been trimmed. They look like 90-degree angles because semis keep them trimmed. The ones that are half dead have been there for 15 years. They don't get replaced. I don't know who's in charge, but I think four or five departments must be in charge of these because they don't get taken care of. If they get sickly, they stay that way. They never flourish.
 on new infrastructure work out there on Mission, Allwire Road. The engineering plans don't show any trees for street trees and so while people are trying to navigate these beautiful wide sidewalks and trails which I love, they're doing in the beating sun. There are no plans for trees therefore all the subcon, sub-SV2 is compacted to the point you can't put a tree in it successfully after that. It's
 There's no emphasis or real vision to have a tree city if we don't plan for well-maintained, good soil, watered,
 plan to put trees in and take care of them. Greenville, South Carolina has a downtown that's completely shaded, and it's got big brick buildings all over it, and it's 15 degrees cooler than all the town around it. Climate change is real, it's going to get hotter in town, and if we don't start planting street trees next to our trails and our sidewalks, then the sidewalks are just going to get hotter than hell. Instead of putting black concrete like we do now, which is the biggest heat sink there is, we need to plant more trees.
 I've got another minute. Down here, not far from City Hall block, we plant crab apples or street trees. Crab apples are not street trees. They never get any size and never produce any shade. There are tree wells filled with gravel that don't have trees, tree wells that have been emptied and filled with concrete.
 We've got to get serious about this. I've been complaining about this for a long time, and this is my first time because of this issue to get up here and vent, so please forgive me. But if we don't start taking proper appreciation for the future of what the Fable could be with its trees, then we'll continue to have one roadmap after the other after the other and still be where we are. So thank you very much, and I did it in less than three minutes.
 And if anybody wants a tour to... Time. Time. You almost made it. You did good. I'll take everybody on a driving tour to see what you're up to. That's great. We'll all try and get there.
 hi good evening council uh mayor my name is carlo bertani 581 rockcliffe road and board three um i'm also the board chair of the urban forestry advisory board uh so you know thank you all for for taking some time this evening to to come out and
 SUPPORT OF THIS DOCUMENT. AS JOHN WAS MENTIONING, THIS IS A LIVING DOCUMENT. WE DO NEED GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND NORTH STAR THAT WE AS AN URBAN FORESTRY BOARD AS WELL AS WORKING DIRECTLY WITH THE CITY OFFICIALS
 industry and developers. We need good solid principles and standards that can be, like I said, the guiding principle. And I really do think that this document is going to help us get there. Is it going to provide all the answers and can it institute operational maintenance change overnight? I can't say that it will. That's going to take, I think, a lot of multi-department collaboration between the city. But like I said, I do think
 If you don't have a plan, then you have no plan. This is really a guiding principle. It's something that we'll be living, that we can continually update. And it's something, too, that provides a good solid baseline that we can measure against moving forward to really understand from a data and metrics perspective what the actual impact that we're having on our canopy really is.
 so with that i encourage the council to vote in approval um of this document and thank you all for having me and happy holidays thank you who else i have margaret britain on zoom okay go ahead margaret hi this is margaret britain uh 1931 north wheeler avenue in fayetteville um i was uh part of the environmental action committee review we looked at this a couple of times and it's
 It's come a long way over several months and it's certainly moved it in the right direction in many ways. And I think it's becoming a document that we can be proud of. I do have some issues with it. I was glad to hear what Dan Cootey had to say because that's a little different than what I have to say. But I want to echo, let's take care of what we have for sure.
 But that does tie in with one of my points, which is that one tree does not equal one tree. And what I mean by that is a tree that's a, you know, 10 inch, 20 inch diameter tree, a big, beautiful post oak.
 um, is not the same as one tree that is a new little sapling, uh, one inch diameter, um, tree. And so when we say net loss, let's really be clear eyed about that. So I think that's not a metric that, that I really even, I mean, I care about it a little bit, but not a lot because it doesn't tell me much. And I'd rather have us
 you know, five and ten years from now, look at our, at our, at what we've done and say, whoa, we've, we've had some loss because we're going to have some loss. We know we need to develop more. We have a housing crisis in Fayetteville, so we're going to lose some trees. Let's, let's put in metrics that actually measure that loss. I would really like to see number of pounds requested.
 That's going to tell us a lot. I mean, even if you just look at canopy, the canopy of a tree with a small diameter is not going to be the same as a canopy with a larger diameter, but let's look at
 number of pounds of carbon sequestered and or diameter breast height, which is common forestry sort of thing. And we'll probably see a loss, but let's be clear-eyed and honest with ourselves about what we're really looking at. Also, let's tie in this data with the Climate Action Plan. These two plans need to, they're living documents, but they need to be sharing data back and forth.
 So I guess that's all I have to say today. Thanks for listening. Take care. Good night. Thank you. Next is Christy Daniels. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi there. I want to say thank you to the Urban Forestry Group and for everybody who's contributed to this document. I'm one of those folks who read through the initial document and it's had lots of changes and improvements and I think it's a great starting place. If you choose to vote this in tonight, I would
 recommend this portion of the living document, that there also are points where we can come back and take into account what Margaret said, some of what Dan said, so that this actually can be a very robust, targeted
 plan that classes for 10 years. I also want to urge us to whenever we're looking at sausage a focus on planting new trees and I just want to encourage us to also have that focus on preserving the trees that we already have conservation and especially those larger trees that can never get those trees back.
 we can't out plan that plant that um in it echoing what margaret said in the carbon sequestration or the canopy um we just can't ever get that back so i want to make sure that um we take that into account um that we've got a very clear plan for meeting increased canopy and a way to track
 carbon sequestration and how that links in with the climate action plan. Thank you. Thank you. Andrea Fournay. Go ahead.
 Hi, it's Andrea Fournette, and I'm from Ward 2. And I read through the plan, like Christy did. There's a group of us, and we sent in our comments. And I did send them to all of you, some of my comments, to all you aldermen. And one of the things for me is ongoing care of the trees that the city already has. Like, just example, right across the street from where you guys are now is the parking lot behind the old Fayetteville building.
 And so during this drought that we had and this heat wave, lots of our parking lot trees need that kind of care. And in my request and my comments was a watering tree, I mean, watering truck, I'm sorry, a truck that can go around the city staff can make sure that the trees are watered in areas. If we want to increase our water supply, we need to increase our water supply. And so we're trying to do that.
 tree can be, we need to start it also not only in people's neighborhoods but in public parking spaces. And I don't think we have one a tree dies, it just dies and they don't replant. And so there's some of those things and also correct education on how to plant a tree and make it so it does survive in urban settings.
 stop all this volcano mulching that's going on that's literally setting up death for trees 20 years from now and most of us probably or 30 years from now most of us won't be here and So that I did give feedback. I did read the documents and I think it's a good start I think as many people have said keep it open keep it viable so that I mean that people can actually add maybe can change it can be fluid and
 So I thank all of everybody's hard work. John put a lot of time into it, and so did the Urban Forestry Group, and they have done a really good job, and I appreciate all the work they are doing going forward. And that's all I have to say for now. Okay, thank you. No one else has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would you all like to have? Teresa. Okay.
 thank you mayor and i want to thank john and everybody that's in the urban forestry group for their work they've really improved this substantially i've read every version from frontwards to backwards upside down inside out so i i know they know that and it is much much much improved
 There's a whole lot of great background information, absolutely a tremendous amount of great background information. This plan actually has created a baseline which is really important to tracking our tree canopy from year to year, so I commend you for doing that. However, the metric that you use for 2019 is incorrect.
 So you need to use the one that has the same footprint that you did for 2015 as you go forward. So you talked about how this is gonna be a roadmap to achieve our goals of increasing tree canopy.
 These are laudable goals, but there's really no implementation plan. You talk about the 1,850 net trees, that's excellent, but you're not talking about the trees that have been lost and where they've been lost. You can easily overlay that information where the distribution of trees are now, if it's equitable or not. That could actually guide your process of where to plant in the future.
 but there's none of that information in there. I could go on and on. There's just a lot of information that's missing. We are losing trees, and I don't believe that this is sufficient right now, although it's way better. I mean, it's way, way better. But this last part is really missing, and that's the roadmap, in your words, roadmap to achieve our goals and how we get there, but it's not there.
 And I just, I'm so tired of reading it. Let me just tell you, I can barely do it anymore. But I think this piece has to be in there for this to actually be a document that I can support for the next 10 years. I mean, it's a 10 year document. It's not gonna be updated really. There might be a few little living things that happen, but the bulk of it will not be addressed for another 10 years. And so we need to make sure that we get it right.
 We know we love our trees. We had the big tree issue with the school. And I think the citizens have spoken about how much they love their trees, but we have to have that implementation component. Thanks. Bob. To the points that Teresa just made,
 Is this a document that we can, and I think John, you even mentioned it as a living document. So is this a document that we can go back and amend, add to without too much trouble? And I guess maybe, Kit, that might be a question for you. Thank you.
 or certainly any any of our long-range plans we have been for all kinds of our city services can be looked at and amended and changed in the future by the city council or by the administration and then bring it to the council so yes this is kind of like a living document as you go along you learn more you might want to go back and change it yeah and i i mean my i guess my view would be then that maybe this is to a point that we
 Go ahead and implement it. And then as we move forward, bring bring amendments, make it a better document, make it a stronger document. I think some of the citizens brought up good points about, you know, the importance of maintaining what we have.
 And, you know, if that needs to be, you know, one of the things we need to look at getting into the document as well, I'm all for, you know, actually having this be a living document. But I don't know if Councilmember Turf would like to, you know, table it again or if we should go forward and look at amending that in the future. Thank you, Councilmember Stafford.
 I think it's difficult because let's just say that we said come back in a year, please have these following items addressed. We're so busy, you know, we're so stacked up that I don't know that we would make room for that. And so that is my concern. So I'll just voice that. That's my concern with that approach. Mark.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And John, I think we are every couple of years doing the tracking of canopy loss through GIS or canopy gain through GIS. Is that accurate? Yes, that is accurate. We are going to track and actually the...
 We're going to track through GIS. They give us data every two years, but we're also going to be logging all of the tree canopy loss throughout and how many we're planting. And it's going to be a metric that is measurable and it will be done every month. And that's something we can share with Environmental Action Committee to measure.
 uh, canopy sequestration. We can have that data. This plan does not focus that detailed on carbon sequestration. It's an overall look at it. And then the numbers from 2019 are correct. It's a snapshot of where our canopy was at that exact moment. The baseline that we used in 2015 is what was recommended.
 by GIS for us to use as a comparison margin moving forward so we can use 2013, 2015, 2017, 2019, and then future ones then they'll all compare what we have with 2015's baseline of the size of the cities and that it's apples to apples comparison. But the 2019 GIS for 39.4 is correct. It's a snapshot of that time. And my understanding was that we would be using
 equity as a guiding principle for mapping the future planting of trees on city land or in Parkways things of that nature and that it's not necessarily a one-for-one in each district of the city But the overall trying to balance tree canopy so we don't have tree deserts in one part of town and so I I think that sufficient
 public work and input has gone into this by the citizenry that I would kind of like to see us go ahead and adopt this and get it on the books because of the vast amount of hours and investment that's been made to honor the labor that's gone into it and then look for
 when we get that next canopy report to say, how are we doing, what might we wanna do differently? And I trust that the staff and the administration will be able to advise us on that. So thank you again for all the hard work and thanks to all the citizens that had input and read the document. I found the supplement to be as fascinating as the report itself, to be perfectly honest with you. And that was a rabbit hole I can't afford to go down again, but thank you for all of your efforts.
 Thank you, Mayor. If you were to address Councilmember Turk's concerns and question, how long do you think it would take you to be able to formulate that information?
 Depending on what she sends, it would be hard for me to say, honestly, off the top of my head, I wouldn't have a specific timeline on that. I mean, I did get that memo that you have, and some of those, yeah, I don't have a timeline on that. I'm...
 One item that, John, I'd like for you to speak to that people have raised as an issue that I know you all considered and considered quite a bit was the relationship of this plan to the Climate Action Plan and how there's a section that was newly formed, or not newly, but over time formed that addressed some of Council Member Turk's.
 issues about the climate action plan. You want to talk about that? Absolutely. And, you know, when we talk about collecting data, and that's one of the big things I'll be doing in 2025, is a lot of data mining. And then that information definitely will be shared with the environmental action groups.
 and they can use that information to measure sequestration and all the other ecosystem benefits but the focus of this plan is an overall carbon sequestration is one of the many benefits that our canopy provides it's not the only one of the many benefits and sharing information and
 data with that we collect and data mine for development services our own city projects Will be very beneficial to all staff who is interested in that I mean That's how I started collecting it several years ago and then we kind of stopped after we got so busy with development services and we decided we needed to
 collect the data from in a different way as well so that data was a little bit flawed and it needed some adjustments and now moving forward we we know what those are and we know how to work that we know how to collect that data yes
 I honestly don't know how much clearer I can be. I sent you all a spreadsheet of numbers that I thought would be really helpful. I've sent you many, many pages of comments and requests. And so, I mean, frankly, I'm really frustrated about all of this.
 Because again, the wrong metric was used. So the 39.4, that's the footprint of the city in 2019, but not the footprint of the city in 2015 that you're basing your comparisons from year to year. And actually looks kind of better. It's 39.7 if you use the same footprint as you did in 2015. So that is a really key flaw in this version right here.
 I think that you're going to need to, like I pointed out, you're going to need to account for how many trees are lost during development.
 You have a FTE that goes out there and actually looks at that. So that can be tracked. You'll know the location, the DBH, the diameter, breast height. You'll know the species. You know all of that information. And so you'll know your loss. And you have those records. But they're not included in the document. So we don't know where our loss is. And we don't really have a roadmap to where we're planting our trees. We know the number that we're going to plant.
 But again, we're never going to get to 40.9% if we don't have all of that tree accounting. We're never going to get there. And it's not going to be equitable either unless we have a plan.
 And this document, how it's wonderful with the background and the extra information, it's great, but it doesn't move us forward. It tells us kind of where we are now, a little bit about where we've been, but not how we're going to move forward.
 And, you know, I again, I'm I'm tired of looking at it. I really am. So if we want to pass it tonight, we can. But I would really like to have the caveat of coming back within a year and having a very, very strict set of parameters that are needed so that we know how to get there. We know that we can achieve this because right now we're not going to be able to get there. We're not going to be able to achieve that.
 our goal and and i think it's really important that we do that for our our city sure thank you mayor um thank you uh for all the work on this uh john and to the urban forestry commission i know a lot of us and all the resident feedback that we've had had a lot of conversations about this
 You know, we have a number of comprehensive plans in the city, and they go to all kinds of varying degrees, and I think they do create roadmaps, and I think sometimes there is frustration because they might not potentially be able to get down to the very specific parameters that maybe some of us need.
 might want them to ideally get to. And so I guess for me tonight, I feel like this is again, the labor that's gone into it gets us directionally headed in the direction to kind of point us and guide us. And I agree that there are additional
 things that can be worked on in the future that dial in these specifics that you're talking about. And oftentimes this has played out with things like our 2040 plan, where as much as we have lots of goals that have been stated, we don't have a specific unfortunate roadmap forward. And that's something I share a level of frustration with too, that I think it is an improvement that we can make in the city over time about creating very smart goals and
 and clear roadmaps going forward with the resourcing. So, but I do think overall it's a guiding document and that the staff working going forward, we do have the ability to be able to dial into some of those areas and I see that commitment. So I think in good faith, I can think that we'll be revisiting on this going forward. Scott. Thank you, Mayor. In an effort to get this passed tonight, is there a way that we could add a,
 amendment to the resolution to readdress this in a year and stipulating what her council member Turk's concerns are so that we can actively be working on it is there any possibility of that and to give us a true true direction to go to
 Thank you. I was just going to say thank you, Councilmember Berna. I was thinking the same thing because if equity is our goal, and going back to what Councilmember Tark said, it sounds like we're not going to get there. I just don't think that it would be, it would make sense to pass it, so Councilmember Berna, thank you for that, and I certainly support your idea that if we can make that, if we
 make that amendment, I think that that would be very wise and very beneficial to those citizens, and I would feel comfortable supporting it then tonight. Sure. Yes.
 I was going to you know voice my support for this document. I think I think we're off to a really good start and I understand that these plans need to be from we always talk about things being from a 30,000 foot elevation and then we drill down you know as we get closer to the ground where we're actually working on stuff. I think it is given some of the concerns I think maybe
 it would be fair to come back in a year and we have a little update or something like that. Or we get, I like the phrase tree accounting that Teresa used. And, you know, if we can get a better accounting of where the trees are, where we're losing trees, where we're replacing trees, so that it is more equitable, so that we can see that. And the citizens can also see that.
 So I would be all in favor of moving this forward tonight. And let's see. It's a resolution. It's a resolution. I'll make a motion we approve the resolution. Do I have a second? Second. Thank you. All right, we have a motion and a second. What final thoughts? Teresa.
 If we made an amendment to have it come back within a year, I could support this. But if it's just going to pass as is without that amendment, because I don't think there was a motion to amend, right? Okay. I was thinking somebody mentioned that. I'm sorry. Is that in the motion to amend, to pass, look at it again in a year? Well, I'm wondering if we should do it.
 you know, before a year so that we can get all the, we can look at it before a year so we could get all the changes made within a year. Would that make more sense? Like maybe eight months, nine months to get rolling on it again? Okay. Yes, I think that would be great. John, when is your new up, your imagery, your new updated GIS imagery coming in?
 It's usually a year behind, like we should be getting 2023s. We might even have it now. Okay. So that would give, so if you have it soon to now, that'll give you eight or nine months. Yeah. Okay.
 I have no issue of giving you all tree accounting in a year or eight months or whenever you all would like that information. That's one of the main focuses is to collect that data and do, I guess, tree accounting and see where we're, that is something we want to know as well. Where are we losing canopy? Where are we gaining canopy?
 And then tree equity is something that's ingrained in all of our planting plans and one of the first things that we look at. We have a list of criteria we do when we decide where we're going to be planting trees. It's not arbitrary at all. It's very purposeful. Well I would like to maybe forward amendment that we will review the plan in nine months. I believe we had a motion and a second. Second to pass the resolution.
 You'd have to back it up, right, Kent? Or vote on it and add an amendment or whatever we're going to do here. I think they can do a motion to amend right now. Well, there you go. Yes, I'd like to make a motion to amend that we will review the document in nine months. Second. I've got a motion to second. We'll review the thing in nine months.
 Okay, so this would be a motion to actually add a section two that would say that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that the urban forestry management plan will be reviewed in the first meeting in September of 2025. Sounds wonderful. Sounds good. Everybody good with that?
 have that drumming motion there Sarah sorry just like I'm ready all right yeah so this is beyond the motion to a man yeah okay please call the roll after Jones yes or yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 stafford yes now we have the amended resolution right kid that's correct all righty then did we have a motion to second there too already okay thank you let's vote here which please call the row dr jones yes moore yes whittaker yes bernard yes
 yes yes Hertzburg yes Stafford yes okay thank you mayor council thank you John all right number two resolution grant the appeal of City Councilmember DeAndre Jones and deny large-scale development application LSD 2024 that's zero zero one one DeAndre yes mayor Jordan and City Council members
 I believe everyone's here tonight. There have been, I believe, two meetings to discuss this. And so I'm not sure how you would want us to do this, who needs to come forth first. But the neighbors are here and the developers are both are are here as well. So they're all here and they've come up with the we've they've discussed a plan quite in detail. So they're ready to
 present to the council. Okay. Well, I'd like to hear from Jonathan first. Well, I'm sorry. Jonathan. Then we'll get to you. Certainly. No apology needed. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, Current Development Services Department. I do have four items that I wanted to update the council on.
 Before proceeding that, I wanted to just remind you all what we're talking about. This property is about 1,000 feet south of where we're sitting today. It includes about 1.28 acres that are surrounded by Nelson Hackett to the west, south to the north, block to the east, and 4th Street to the south.
 The property is proposed for a multifamily development that includes two structures with a larger fronting Nelson Hackett and a smaller fronting around the northwest corner of Block and 4th Street. The project includes 138 bedrooms, 120 total on and off site parking spaces for vehicles, including scooters and motorcycles, along with 17 bicycle racks.
 THE FOUR UPDATES I WANT TO TOUCH ON, COUNCILMEMBER JONES MENTIONED THE FIRST, SO I'LL DEFER TO HIM OR THE RESIDENTS OF THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM TO SPEAK MORE TO THAT. AND I'LL MOVE ON TO WHAT I FOUND TO BE A REPEATED TOPIC OF CONVERSATION DURING THE LAST COUNCIL MEETING WHICH IS THE PROPOSED PARKING ALONG MILSON HACKETT BOULEVARD. A BIG PIECE OF THIS GOING INTO A BIT OF BACKGROUND WAS HOW THIS WAS ORIGINALLY PROPOSED.
 What was brought forward by the design team at the onset of this project was a proposal for back-end parking along Nelson Hackett. If you're not familiar with back-end parking, that's what exists in the downtown area between Dixon and Spring along Block Avenue, excuse me.
 When staff evaluated this in the context of the 19,000 average vehicles per day, the fact that the 85th percentile of northbound traffic was 38 miles per hour and the numbers that suggested that we would be reintroducing the potential for rear-end collisions with any on-street parking.
 We found ourselves in the position to tell the design team that we could not support the project, that with this proposal, we found it would be creating a dangerous traffic condition. Accordingly, the design team went away, went back to the drawing board, and what they came back with is what you have proposed before you tonight. Outside the existing driving lane, northbound driving lane along Nelson Hackett, is a slip lane, which you can see here in blue, and then on-street parking, parallel parking specifically, just beyond that.
 As a part of the Planning Commission's conditions of approval with the project, this slip lane is required to be protected by a modified curb. And I included some examples of which you can see with a similar city project elsewhere, where this can be more of a rollover curb or something more obstructive if the condition merits it.
 With this in mind, staff found ourselves in a position where we found it to be safe and not creating a dangerous traffic condition and accordingly recommended in favor of that aspect of the project. I also wanted to touch on a matter of process questions. Mr. Williams was gracious enough to touch on this in the legal memo he shared with you all last week.
 The largest piece of this revolves around the variances that are approved to this project. These can indeed be considered at your discretion on a case by case basis. The council can find that one of these or two of these or all four of them are inappropriate in some way and not uphold the planning commission's approval, but the project itself's approval can stand. That said, I do want to remind the council that there are implications with each and every one of those variances. The first two of which with the design of Nelson Hackett and some of our,
 excuse me, parking lot design standards would result in the loss of 17 parking spaces if those variances were removed. So we found that that contributed to a more positive project.
 The third variance for access management, again, how you get into and out of a site from our public street system. This is a site with access to four different streets and the two locations that are proposed in the parking lot we found to be the safest and supported that coming off a block and forth. And the last item, again, this site is four-sided and it's difficult to include all the elements of a development and found that it was appropriate to approve the dumpster location where it is on the southern end of the site given the constraints.
 Lastly, I'd like to hand off the item to Chief Hardin with the fire department to discuss street widths. The council expressed a desire to hear more about that area in particular, the existing state and how the fire department would consider that.
 Well, I think as everybody's aware, the on-street parking is kind of a pet peeve of mine. It causes a lot of trouble throughout the city. It's hard with them big old fire trucks getting around. And you'll remember less than a year ago, I was standing before you talking about the development down here on Center Street. And I was adamantly opposed and begging you not to do that.
 However, and that's because they were saying a .452 parking allowance, so .452 parking spots per bedroom. And the developer went back to the drawing board and managed to get us the parking spots that we needed. And at that point, we were in support of it and we're fine. We stepped back at that point.
 This particular development, they're like at 0.86. 0.65 is the bar that this group has established.
 And once it meets that bar, we quit asking. And they're in excess of that as far as parking goes. Now, you would ask specifically for the parking in that area. And you're right. I mean, all the property owners down there are correct. I mean, it's a train wreck. I mean, we have got cars everywhere. There is really inadequate parking in that area.
 That's not this developer's fault. You know, they're going to come forward. They're going to widen the streets to allow the on-street parking. That area averages about 23 foot wide is the width. We wouldn't allow a development in there today. You couldn't do that. I mean, many of the houses don't even have a parking spot.
 So, they're forced to park on the street. That wouldn't, I mean, it wouldn't work today, but I mean, that doesn't really impact this particular development. The, you know, if they were trying to develop such as that, we wouldn't allow it. And that they are meeting the parking standards that this group has established. And so, we, the fire department has no issue with it.
 I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have? And Mayor, before that, just wrapping up real quick, again, as a reminder, staff is recommending approval of this project. The Planning Commission did previously deny it. It was brought back on reconsideration when the project reduced its unit count and was subsequently approved by vote of eight to one. It's before you all on appeal. And if you hadn't had a chance to think about it between the last meeting and now, there are codified reasons for which the Planning Commission and now you all sitting in their stead can deny a project.
 Most of these are very black and white. Either dedicate the right of way that you need to, you have the water and sewer that you need to.
 or either making the on and off-site improvements that you need to, but the single one I think this project is hinging on is this question of whether it's creating or compounding a dangerous traffic condition. So as far as how the council considers this item, that I'd encourage you all to think about it within this framework of six reasons for denial. And again, along with Chief Hartman, I'm available for any questions, thank you.
 Okay. So, DeAndre, would the applicant like to speak before the council, and then we'll get to the neighborhood? Okay. You have 10 minutes. Good evening, Mayor and Council Members. You know, 10 minutes sounds great. I think we've all heard about this project a fair bit, so I hope to take up just a little bit less than that.
 I think one of the things that we left last time we were here is for us as developers to sit down and talk to the neighbors of this wonderful neighborhood, and I think I was
 was up here last time telling you guys how clear it was that this was a really passionate group of people. And through several discussions, ultimately, we led to sit down and have a big family-style discussion over a meal for several hours that, and ultimately, I feel like we walked away with a feeling that we were going to be able to be really good neighbors moving into the future.
 I'm empathetic to anyone with having a fear of the unknown. And I think for the neighbors that kind of surround our project, there was a fear of the unknown and there was a lot of questions they had about our project in general, our management style of our project, what our core beliefs are. And I hope that we were able to make them feel like we are gonna be good stewards of our investment there.
 And I think the other thing that was brought forward was kind of a key component of our discussion is a parking district, which of course we would be in favor of. You know, of course, after hearing the fire department talk about street width, you know, I'm not so sure how much there's going to be available, but of course,
 you know, whatever we work towards, we would be in favor. But at the end of the day, like I like I said last time we were here, this isn't just a once off conversation we're going to have with this neighborhood group. You know, we plan on being here for a long time and being invested in this neighborhood just like they do. And I thank you for your time. Does anyone have any questions?
 Thank you. And yes, it was a great meeting and the food was really good. I ran from Springdale and I was so glad that I was feeding because that was some good chicken. But it was a great meeting. And my question is, what were some of the biggest challenges?
 Walking away from the meeting, what was the biggest concern that you think that wasn't addressed, that you were hoping to address tonight?
 I feel like from our end of things, I think what we were hoping to address with them was just for them to have a better idea of that we felt like true to our data and true to the research that we had done, that we just were not going to need the parking. And I still think that holds true. To be honest, I'm not sure our group has anything more that we feel like hasn't been resolved. We look forward to a resolution of this project tonight.
 Okay. That was my next question.
 Has there been any more conversation since that meeting between your organization and the neighborhood? Yes, yes, there's been some conversations. I think kind of what that has centered around is how we move forward with the creation of a parking district and how we move forward with utilizing our parking management plan that we've created. Okay, thank you. Yes, sir.
 Thank you, Mayor. Could you speak to the bill of assurance that you've offered that's in our packet? Just for clarification, it's not a bill of assurance that we're offering. It's a bill of assurance that the neighborhood has proposed.
 In essence, what the bill of assurance is saying, we agree with. It's the bill of assurance that we feel is rigid in its structure and in an area and in a city with constant change and evolution. What we do fear is, you know, change might be challenging to make and even unnecessary at times. And point number five in the parking management plan is to be dynamic and adjust our needs as they arise.
 well thank you for clarifying that i i i thought you had offered it so i'm thank you for for that happy to clarify okay now you have a neighborhood advocate yes i believe we do um mr allen i think you're going to be the spokesperson tonight again right you are now and then we'll get to everybody else here in three minutes thanks
 yeah thank you council uh alan osmer board one i live across the street from this um property so the this is separate from our public comment or yeah this is not sure okay this is the andre part of his okay appeal so you get 10 minutes the 10 minutes
 Everybody gets 10 minutes, but no, not everybody. And then we'll get to three minutes for everybody else. All right. Okay. Thank you. I must say, I was not quite prepared for this. We did have a fruitful meeting and I appreciate the council directing us and supporting us to get together like that.
 A lot was said and we do share a lot of the same needs. And that was something that we came up with. We have a lot of overlaying desires to be fruitful in this neighborhood together with our new neighbors, this project. So some of the big kind of sticking points, and I appreciate the comment with the...
 bill of assurance that is not really viable. I apologize, I shot it out there. It's not in the right format. We're working as a grassroots organization so that the bill of assurance is not in play. The point was to essentially take the conversations that the developer has offered over the last, what, four months, oh my gosh,
 and essentially restate them into a shared covenant, that we would all be on the same page. And distilled, that statement is, this project is drawing, as Mr. Kurth mentioned, 77 on-site parking spaces, 28 off-site or on-street. You saw the drawing. And that's their contention, that that's all they'll need.
 That's what we want to be restated and supported by you guys is that that's the limit of what this project needs. It's been stated by the developer planning commission. It's excuse me, a planning staff, et cetera. So if there is a traffic management district put in place and there might not be, but if there is, I request to the council is that you all support us and limit the number.
 membership of the urban lofts to the 28 that they've currently proposed is all they need, 28 on street. Remember, this is the perimeter around the drawing, as you just saw. That's basically our request. The spillover that would not be good, we have about 100 spaces in our little triangle. We're kind of an island. We've got heavy streets, MLK, College, Nelson Hackett.
 And so about 100 spaces, it's not official, that's just people counting. And every night, as the fireman said, we have about 30 of those utilized by us. Small lots, limited driveways, etc. If the spillover did happen, hopefully not. Hopefully there will be no spillover and this project will function just as everyone says. If it doesn't.
 and their spillover, the neighborhood would like for the urban lofts, the membership that's handed out when the parking management district is set up, we would like the membership of urban lofts to be limited to that 28. And that's essentially one of our biggest requests of this body is in the future, if the parking management district does happen to limit the membership and not promote more.
 An additional reason that I'd like to share is our neighborhood is all about gentle density. A house is torn down every couple of years and two, three, four houses are put back. And that's just a fact. We are all about gentle density, growing the downtown in a way that promotes more housing. And our neighborhood, most of us, we're all about that. The houses look great, but if you think about that,
 If you use our neighborhood, you, if any development spills over significantly, fills those streets with on-street parking unregulated, the future gentle densification of homes that has happened could stop. Instead of tearing down one and putting four, well, I'd be disincentivized. I would want to tear down one and put up a meat mansion. To me, that's opposite of what the city is all about. Fewer people would be...
 in our neighborhood. So the way we see it, limiting the parking, essentially restating what has already been said many times is really what the neighborhood is requesting. We also talked about
 speed humps, the developer said he's in support. I hope I'm not speaking out of turn. We agreed to that at the meeting, that that's an idea that they could support us on. Lots of other things that we had common interests about. So yeah, there is concern from the
 Our neighborhood experiences change a lot. We just, stones throw out that window. It's really the, we think would be out of balance for so much parking spillover to happen into the neighborhood. While today, we're at the point where there is an ability to erase and redraw how many units and how much parking that they currently have. So that hasn't happened yet.
 And that's really where the neighborhood stands is that today there are 77 on-site parking spaces, 28 on the street parking spaces. That's 105 and 138 units. Now this does not count if someone moves the town on a scooter. Maybe he could or she could. So that's a 76% vehicular ratio of units to parking spaces. Maybe that'll be fine.
 If it's not, we'd like your support to try to protect the neighborhood and send this into the future. I hope that makes sense.
 If there are any questions, I'll be glad. What questions do we have for the applicant? Yes, Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. So the 100 spaces that you referenced, have you talked to the fire department? Are those the spaces that are not on both sides or on one side? Have you? No, ma'am. That is just walking around and saying, well, people could park. Yeah. It would be nice. I would.
 uh recommend trying to get your numbers lined up so that you could actually really know how many are there it may be less than that so that might be a real challenge yes ma'am thank you scott thank you mayor uh this is probably for jonathan uh jonathan is there a way that uh what he's saying seems to make a little bit that you know make makes sense uh but is there a way of of you
 putting that into the to the appeal that they are uh held to the the 28 or whatever but then if we did that how do you police that that that would be my other question i i think that's exactly the question councilmember and i don't know that
 Without a parking district, we have an ability to understand what cars are there for this project specifically as renters turn over. Without the parking district, we need to be reliant upon the property owner, the manager, to ensure that those tenants are not moving beyond the parking spaces along the frontage of this project. But they've got 28, right? That's correct. They've got 28. I'm just trying to get this in my head. And the spillover is what you're concerned about.
 other than 28. You're talking about a membership, did you say? Well, I was told that's how parking districts work. I don't know. I'm just trying to get what you're talking about. Yes, sir. In a parking district, I'm just going off what your parking manager, I forget his name. Yes, sir. He told me that the people in Wilson Park is a good example that first there's a
 there's a get together a meeting where people who live there are all going to talk about how many stickers they get essentially just just like parking in a parking lot we did that in the downtown area yes sir and and in in this case that the sorority houses essentially put their hand up and said we'd like some too and the wilson park people said whoa whoa whoa y'all y'all got choices we don't so that's that's the
 conversation that we'd like to essentially lay the groundwork for that we think that part has been stated and chosen what were self-imposed. Okay, Bob. Thank you. I was really hoping for a bill of assurance to come along tonight. I think that was my expectation and even when speaking with one of the architects this afternoon, I kind of felt like
 that that's where things were headed. But in lieu of that, this request that on initiation or on the creation of a parking district we would limit urban loss to the 28 spaces. Is that something we can, and I think it's a question for you, is this something we can,
 Somehow add in to this ordinance Beyond our read it well I don't know if you can add that into the resolution right here because we don't have a parking district yet and the reason the bill of assurance was was improper because a bill of assurance is for Someone is seeking to get a rezoning approved not something that they have the right to build as of right and
 Now, I did see that what the neighborhood is wanting is trying to limit the development if it is approved by the council and then if a parking district is created that they would be limited to 28 parking passes.
 because we allow that parking passes even for apartments and stuff like that, where you don't give everybody in the apartment a parking pass because they're supposed to provide a lot of their own parking. I think that is possible. I think that that is also something that you wouldn't actually have to put down on black and white right now.
 But if a parking area was being proposed, that would be a time when you would say that this particular development is limited to that many parking passes. So those things are worked out.
 And I guess I need to talk with Justin about that, see exactly what has been done in the past and whether that would be different than it is now, because I know that they don't allow an ultimate, an unlimited number of parking passes to a student or another kind of sub-apartment. So we wouldn't be able to put anything in this ordinance that would say something like, upon creation of a parking district,
 urban loss would be limited to 28 spots. Well, to do that, what you'd be doing is, I guess, requiring the applicant to place on his approved large-scale development plans and plat a note that would say that not more than 28 parking passes would be allowed for this project if a parking district gets created.
 Now, that does make it a little bit unusual. We haven't seen that before, I don't think, Jonathan, but there are conditions on large-scale developments that you make a note and put a condition on it. So I think you could probably, as a council, just kind of spitball in here, but I think
 deny this appeal and approve the large-scale development with the condition that note I
 On the project, Platt would note that if a neighborhood parking district is created, that the tenants of this particular project would be not entitled to more than 28 parking passes in that district. But I'd like to ask Jonathan what he thinks about this, because we haven't done this before.
 thank you for conveying that as a minor point of clarification i said it correctly the presentation was incorrect more ago it's 29 on-street parking spaces if we're keeping precise counts uh i think what is being described is an option to note that that condition of approval on a plat and otherwise i will be very candid it is concerning that those can be overlooked they are binding but they can be overlooked in the event that
 None of the council members remain, the property exchanges hands, none of the existing planning staff is here when this comes to fruition. Those are very easily lost in documentation over time. So I think in practice it can happen and it can be enforceable. My concern is just about posterity at this point. Okay. I mean, if my other council members are amenable to that, that's something I'd like to see.
 yeah uh there was questions at the meeting about a parking district and how do we go about creating that and i believe justin just walked in so mayor jordan if i could well sure justin would come up and just briefly um
 tell us about how that's great. I remember you talked about that at the last meeting, but of course life has happened since then, so if you can kind of
 give us another overview of what that would look like for this project. Sure, so in my view the consideration of the creation of a parking district is a collaborative effort right. I mean it's policy makers, it's staff that's going to be charged with executing and enforcing it, it's the residents of the area in an attempt to
 identify what the goals are what the expectations are what the limitations may become that aren't there today if streets become regulated and it's a it's a a tailored approach to meet the specific circumstances of of the area so i think a lot of work would go into figuring that out but
 Certainly can't stand here today and say here's what a parking district is going to look like for this area And we've only done it once for the Wilson Park neighborhood. So we have a we have a template that we can start with but again, there's a
 It would require a lot of conversations around exactly what the specific goals are for all involved all the stakeholders But we did work something out it's doable I mean but you but the
 think that everything works like that neighborhood does. I mean, I can't tell you that you just have to work with this neighborhood. Yeah, and I understand. I think this is kind of a, because we don't even know if a parking district will be needed at this point. I think it'll be if we see a problem manifest, then
 looking at that thank you that would look like a more appropriate time to really be looking at the nitty-gritty on what's gonna be allowed just a point of clarification the streets are already very narrow down there so is it such if they park on the street now
 Is the street wide enough to accommodate fire?
 I think that's a great question and something that would have to be explored and measured if and when we begin. The reason I'm concerned about that is I see what the neighbors are asking, but we may sit here and say that, yeah, we support that, but then we get into looking at it and we may not be able to do that because the streets won't accommodate it. So I want to make sure we're...
 transparent on exactly what's going on. When you start parking on each side of the street, then it gets a little dicey. The conditions as they exist today may or may not exist if a parking district were created. Yeah. Jay. When cars are, so the fire code is 26 foot. In order to park on one side, it's got to be 26, 30 for both sides. And currently, none of those streets meet that.
 but as I said earlier, that's not unique to our city. It's like that all over. That's what I walked over and asked Justin because we were struggling with this. And I want to say it was Isla Street. I can't remember over in Wilson Park a couple of years ago. They were doing sorority, they were building there and there was a lot of controversy over that. In the end, I do think they're parking there already. Whether it's, I don't know,
 That's a hard answer. I mean, I'm very legalistic. You all establish rules. I enforce those rules. And in that particular area, it's not in compliance with those rules, but it's still in compliance because it was built long before those rules ever existed. So anything that's built new, they have to follow those rules. And that's what this development is doing.
 But I do think the parking district thing that they're describing does sound like a viable option. I mean, they're already parking there. There being some sort of management of it instead of just free-for-all makes a lot more sense. You know, putting numbers on there, having no parking signs on at least one side of the road, the opposite of where the numbers are, would be better than today. So, yeah.
 Okay, Chief I have some more questions for you. Sorry, I wanted to make sure I got the numbers right. So you said 26 feet wide for one side being parked on and 30 for another side? I forgot my notebook back there. Let me grab it one second. It's either 30 or 32. Do we have a tag team? Oh, we do.
 It is 26 on one side and 32. 32 on the other. So, yes, 26 and 32. And just to make sure I understand, so right now, none of those streets down there even meet the 26 foot width? 23. The average is around 23. It's up and down a little bit from there.
 And then going back to Wilson Park to that parking district, none of those streets were 26 either. So while we have a parking district, they're basically non-compliant with our width standards. Well, it's not fair to say that because they were.
 The fire code is established and it's not retroactive with the exception of some very important life safety things. You know, I mean, some some venues, it changes and they have to update. But for the most part, that doesn't change. So whenever it's built, it's that standard from that point forward.
 board. And when those were built, there was no standard. So they are in compliance, even though they're parking what would today be illegally. Thank you for clarifying that. And in Wilson Park, the way things are with cars being parked on one side, you're still able to get your trucks through and navigate reasonably well? So far, I mean, worst case scenario, we're slower than what we would be.
 I mean otherwise you have to be very careful sometimes it is very tough to get through but it's the hand we're dealt we're going to get to the house and put it out we may bump a car along the way I can show you our damage report Paul can tell you about it but we're going to get there okay thank you so much well let's start
 Okay, well, let's... I'm late to the game, Mr. Mayor, but I've got a question for Jonathan. Jonathan, if I'm understanding, part of the neighbor's concern would be we have an agreement tonight, but the parking being proposed exceeds our requirement.
 Let's say we were to approve this project, I think the neighbors bringing forward a bill of assurance, and I'm speculating on this, would be, well, wait, could the developer in plan check still comply with code, still be issued a development permit, and reduce the parking?
 to the amount that the code calls for, or would tonight's action be binding because it was part of the approval of the planning commission and then affirmed by council? Does that question make sense? It does, thank you. We have a system of modifications to project after they get approved because the reality is most projects do go through some changes
 throughout the process from concept to certificate of occupancy for projects approved at the planning entitlement level there are either major modifications or minor modifications what this would be considered if they're reducing parking spaces modifying their street improvements something that effect would constitute a major modification and that was go back to public hearing so that would go back to the planning commission if that was something that the
 Okay, anything else? All right. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us that's in the chamber? Thank you.
 I'm Ron Hollingshead. My family has lived in and owned property in the South Square neighborhood for over 30 years. My daughter and her family live in the house that we own at 24 East 5th Street. We and our neighbors only ask that developers provide one on-site full-size parking space for each unit.
 We understand that the City's Unified Development Code allows a developer to build only about 100 on-site and adjacent on-street parking spaces for a 138-unit apartment complex. After roommate and guest parking is accounted for, there will probably be around 80 cars that will not have a place to park and will be forced to drive around and around our neighborhood searching for a parking spot.
 The neighborhood is not against the development, but we're very concerned that there isn't enough on-site parking and that our neighborhood streets will be used as a development's parking lot. Not enough on-site parking creates and compounds serious health, safety, and welfare problems. At the November 7th City Council meeting, several members of this council expressed support for a neighborhood parking management district.
 We believe that a parking management district will go a long way to ease our concerns about spillover parking from this development. The developers have stated many times that their project provides enough on-site and adjacent on-street parking for their residents, including roommates, as well as residents' visitors, family, and guests. We ask that developers prove that they really mean this
 by stating a bill of assurance that the urban loft residents waive their right to participate in the neighborhood's parking management district the developers are in the process right now of building another urban lofts project on 15th street perhaps the residents at the nelson hackett location can use some of the parking spaces at the 15th street location to store their cars thank you for your consideration and for listening to our concerns thank you who else would like to address
 Hi, my name is Kelly Schwarting. I live at 324 Southeast Avenue. I just kind of want to make it clear that there's about 70 houses in our Little Pocket neighborhood. This project is putting 138 more houses in our Little Pocket neighborhood. We use a lot of that parking already. I would like to request that the City Council change the UDC allowing too many concessions for one unit.
 to one parking space for residential development in the future the city planner should have discretion to permit or not permit depending on the site to be developed location other parking areas available and not depend on the developer to do the right thing
 this developer has four other properties all which have a minimum one full parking space per bedroom even the property that they are currently building in south fayetteville and on 15th has one parking space per unit apartments just don't work without parking they know it we know it there's going to be at least 30 cars looking for a place to park
 They are not experienced at managing a property without spaces for the residents.
 i ask that the code be rewritten for future developments so this kind of thing doesn't get out of control and ruin other neighborhoods in fayetteville i ask that the city develop a parking management district for our neighborhood prior to this development being built so we are sure that our neighborhood our single family residents will not be overrun with cars creating a hazardous situation for traffic pedestrians and emergency access thank you thank you who else would like to
 Good evening. My name is Eric Pollack. I live at 38 West 4th Street.
 The parking concerns have been gone over significantly. One thing I'm not sure that's been really brought up is that this will essentially put 150 times more cars into this neighborhood, whether they're parking or just passing through. As it is, most of these streets are sort of semi one way as it is. And that I believe is a safety concern if we begin to,
 totally saturate our on-street parking and potentially need utility or emergency vehicles to pass through there while we have this increased traffic and the potential for Essentially all the parking to be used. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? My name is Ruth Van Antwerp. I live at 360 West Fifth Street and
 And I'm really surprised I haven't heard about the problem of garbage that is going to happen with this. From where I live, I walk to Walker Park. And as this area has been built up with, I don't know if they're townhouses or apartments, the street has become very unsafe with fast cars. And the garbage and the recycling is just all over the street.
 And these are units that have a recycle bucket. I think at rentals, they don't get the recycle bucket. So you're going to have 138 people throwing away all that trash. And I didn't really look closely at the pictures of how much room there's going to be for garbage.
 But as I walk the trails behind apartment complexes, their dumpsters are just overflowing. So you're going to have 138 people plus their visitors, all that trash. I don't quite understand how that's going to be taken care of. And with the new, when you walk the, kind of going back to this other development between Walker Park, it's Locust, between...
 one block south of MLK. That used to be safe. There's not usable sidewalks. And even the new one is full of bins and garbage. And so everyone walks on the street and there's a lot of traffic there, of pedestrian traffic. And the cars are just racing in to that new apartment complex or townhouse complex. So you're going to have to have speed bumps for all these...
 all these cars that are driving around here. So it will negatively impact the safety and the garbage. And is there any recycling that's going to be offered to these residents? So thank you for your time, Mayor and Council Members. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening, Mayor and City Council. My name is Skylar Schwarting, and I live at 324 Southeast Avenue.
 The other option tonight is to approve our appeal. How the Unified Development Code Section 166 is written, it justifies our request for denial of the Urban Loss Project. It states, the city may refuse to approve a large-scale development for any of the following reasons.
 the proposed development would create a compound a dangerous traffic condition in which the risk of accidents involving motor vehicles is significant due to factors such as but not limited to high traffic volume topography or the nature of the traffic pattern i will cover these one at a time create a compound and dangerous traffic condition it is on a steep and curved nelson hackett road number two they are adding parallel parking to a road that
 just completed a road diet reducing the road from four lanes to two lanes. Number 3, fire and EMS access, garbage pickup and mail delivery on streets will be impacted when more cars are parked on the street due to inadequate parking at the urban lofts. Number 4, if they were not overbuilding the site with this many units, they wouldn't need any parking on the dangerous curve at Nelson Hackett. High traffic volume,
 Having to travel through the neighborhood streets to access the proposed development due to the fact that the only entrances are in the back of the property in our neighborhood. Number two, having to drive circling around looking for parking for existing residents, new residents, and families and friends.
 Three, Church Avenue and Block Street at MLK are unprotected turns. This creates a traffic hazard in our neighborhood with cars quickly turning into narrow neighborhood streets looking for overflow and visitor parking. Topography, it has a very steep slope coming off of Nelson Hackett and South Street with hazardous limited sight distances. The nature of the traffic pattern.
 With the new road diet on Nelson Hackett, it eliminated turns on Rock Street. Now residents must use South Street to access the main artery, Nelson Hackett. This will be a very busy intersection and a hazardous intersection with the increased traffic from the new development. This section of the UDC is written clearly and qualifies our concerns due to health and safety.
 Remember, there are 138 units. There are only room on the site for 36 standard car parking and 37 compact size cars. The rest will be on the street where the existing single family residences are already parking in front of their own homes. Also, referring to the trees that was mentioned in a previous docket. Time? Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate your time. Thank you. Who else? Thank you.
 Rebecca LaTourette, 1576 Glen Brown Mountain Road, Fayetteville. A lot of people said good things tonight. I would like to ask that when a parking district is considered, if this passes, that you include
 the other side of Nelson Hackett, South Street, on the other side of Nelson Hackett because on my street we are already experiencing parking problems due to the recent infill which is built with this nice little parking exception that allows things to be built without sufficient parking spaces per bedroom.
 So what I anticipate is additional traffic, additional parking coming across Nelson Hackett and parking on West South Street. I would like to second what I've heard here before from other people, which is change this parking rule. It's creating problems all over town. I understand what's behind it, that we all want people to walk to work and bike to work.
 But the reality is this is a hilly town and everybody has a car. And I've said this so many times, you guys are sick of hearing it. My tenants all drive and they live very close to their work spots. I anticipate more problems in this exact neighborhood due to the zoning and the fact that it's in an opportunity zone.
 And also, lastly, about this safety of having any kind of parking at all on Nelson Hackett. Has anybody looked at the rumble strips on my side of the street there?
 There's about three of them have landed in my yard. I pick them up when I mow the city's right-of-way. And quite a number of them are broken because people routinely go over and hit them and break them and destroy them. And I don't see how a little curb or slip lane is going to be respected. I think we're going to have a lot of rear-end accidents. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? Good evening. My name is Richard Berquist. I live, my daughter lives at 33 East 4th Street with her three children.
 And I would like to emphasize again, like I had said before, that there's 30 plus children, elementary age children that travel through the neighborhood, travel to the park, travel to the library, to the square, etc. Via the streets. Most of our streets have one sidewalk in.
 and the streets are very convenient so there is that issue of traffic safety that i think is very important but i'd also like to endorse everything else my neighbors have said uh about the parking and one last thing is the idea of making the development contingent on a parking district i think that'd be right you know thank you very much thank you who else would like to address us good evening my name is louise rosier and i live at 11 west south street which is
 very, very close to where this project is going to be. I do not have anything against the building of the urban project. I don't. You know, the urban loft are welcome to be there. I only have two wishes, and they are very, very simple. I've lived in the neighborhood for 40 years, and I would like to be able to park my car, and I would like to be able to feel safe in the neighborhood. That is all.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Franklin Everts. I live at 11 West South Street, and I just had a little anecdotal story about parking on the street. My wife, Louise, and I, we do not have a driveway, and we have two cars. And the area in front of our house, we're able to comfortably park the two cars now. And there's a small, there's an area where you probably could put a smaller car in between, but that's in front of our mailboxes.
 by a postal carrier and we received notes, if that mailbox is blocked, we're not going to get our mail. And that happened the other night. And I went out and put a little note on the car saying, hey, please, if you park here, we're not going to get our mail. So I'd appreciate you not parking here. And it hasn't happened often, but it's just starting to happen. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Who do you have on Zoom?
 I have Kim Johnson. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Please. Sorry, Kim. Just a minute. Hello. My name is Molly Jensen. I live at 312 South Block Avenue. I don't understand if
 The developer is so sure there's only going to be less than 70% occupancy of cars, and they are so sure we're not going to have overflow. I know change is hard. It's fearful. What are they afraid of signing a document that says they will only take and not request extra parking in the neighborhood? I just don't understand it. It should be a really simple act of good faith.
 Yeah, that's all I have to say. Okay, thank you all. Who else would like to address us? Back to Zoom. Okay. Kim Johnson. Go ahead, go ahead. Kim, if you're there, you'll need to unmute or something's not working.
 She's the only one or Kim. Oh, there you go. Can you hear me? Yes, we hear you now. All right. Sorry. I'd like to amplify what Richard Berkowitz said. That neighborhood is my glide path for me getting back up to West Rock to my property. And I love the intersection there that there's a light.
 at South now, it makes it so much safer. The only problem is that it's really not safe for the children living in that neighborhood on South past Hackett, between Hackett and College. There's...the street is so narrow. And right now, we have
 you know, I guess enough people that are considerate that will pull off to the side and let you pass and do that. But I worry about the parents having children there during the day. I know there are basketball goals and there's balls that go in the street and it just, it scares me.
 I'd like to say we live in the land of pretend and think that most of the residents of this new property are going to be students, which is probably right. Razorback Transit could establish a stop there. Are they going to take that stop? And has the developer actually talked to the university about establishing a Razorback Transit stop?
 for this property that would be my question thank you very much i'm just concerned about the kiddos okay no one else on zoom has their hand raised okay i'm going to bring it back to the council well let us begin bob yeah um a question for the developer i guess uh
 You have spoken to the transit agencies, right? And there will be, number one, you'll be giving transit vouchers to your tenants. Is that correct? Yeah. And to kind of speak on that point, we offered, I've heard a lot about the Bill of Assurance. We've offered a memorandum of understanding in lieu of the Bill of Assurance.
 And it is giving the exact same things that would be in the bill of assurance, the willingness for the parking district, the enforcement of our parking management. I think some of those finer details, such as working with the transit is all relative to that. Now, if it's putting on the plat that we get our 28 spots, that's great with us. I think we're all in agreement of that.
 And yes, to answer your specific questions, Ozark Regional Transit is planning to put, I believe, up to three spots on our development. And I think Kara could probably speak more on Razorback Transit. Okay. Perfect.
 Are you bringing somebody else? Yeah. Oh, okay. She's going to answer the question on Razorback Transit. Yeah, I'm the architect on the project. Yes, we have also been in talks with Razorback Transit as well. I don't believe that we have a definite commitment from them, but there have been discussions on that point. Okay. And then you mentioned...
 Not for you. I think for either. You mentioned that in lieu of a bill of assurance that you're offered a memorandum of understanding. Is that what you call it? Yes, sir. And does that document exist? And have you presented that to the neighbors? Yes, sir. That document was sent over to the neighbors today. OK. OK. I think that answers my question. Thank you. Is that something the city seen the city attorney? Is there anything about that that's binding?
 Well, a memorandum of understanding is a contract. It has the same force as a contract. I don't know who the parties are. I guess you and a neighbor. Well, I think the letter as it states now is our intent on behalf of the development group. So I haven't seen it yet, but, you know, the city council can also control the amount of passes that you would be allowing for this development. And, in fact, if you wanted to do that with a,
 resolution in the future it'd be pretty easy to draft one up that would but I don't think necessarily we have to do that yet because as you know first you got to make a decision are you going to want to put the time and effort money into creating a parking parking district here when at this point we don't really know what's going to happen when this project gets built
 you'll know a lot more once it's built in full about what it was the problems that the neighbors are such having which I was soon they are going to be having problems in parking and anyway I have not seen the document and that's all I say oh thank you mayor I have I mean I'm glad to hear that you've drafted this intent
 I would appreciate it if you were really serious that you did send it to the city attorney, because I think that we need some kind of documentation or breadcrumbs or something to ensure that you all only have 28 spaces and that's all you are 29 and that's all that you ever asked for. And I think that that would be, I think the neighbors would also appreciate that certainty.
 So I would move that we hold this until we actually get a memo of understanding or insurance to the city attorney and have a chance to have that looked over.
 uh if i may and we're obviously happy to send that over i think i believe i heard tonight that we something we could put on the on the plat as a condition upon approval that uh when and if a parking district is created at that 28 or 29 spots would all be all we could take so i think that could be another measure here tonight to move forward this project but give that condition of approval
 We also heard that that may be as hard to track in posterity as we move through the system. So I'm a little hesitant because I've seen this happen before where things, good intentions, things drop off, we get really busy, we forget.
 and then we have major crises, problems. And I think with this neighborhood and the limited parking, we really need to address this now. I really think that, I mean, what I ideally, if my council members agree to it, is I would like us to start working on a parking district immediately. I don't think this will be that difficult. I think Wilson Park was very complicated. And so I would look to my Ward 4 colleagues to
 head that up. So, yes, sir. I'm sorry, Ward 1. I'm sorry, not me. You all. I don't know, you all. Thank you for...
 We're catching my slip. But I do think we need to work on that immediately. And because we know that this is going to be a problem, I don't think it's an if. I think it's a definite it will be an issue. And we have a lot of public...
 and a lot of public participation from the neighborhood. Sure, I share your concerns of, we always wanna do our homework to make sure there's not going to be a problem. And I think when we had that sit down discussion with the neighborhood, our real data suggests only a 70% parking utilization of available spots. And on top of that, all of the measures we're taking to try to ensure that we have a walkable site that people are actually attracted to be at.
 in car-free living. And I think one of the things we've lately discussed is rebate programs for e-bikes and synthesizing that usage. So we're doing everything we can. We believe that it's not going to be a problem. And of course, we're here saying if it worse comes to worse, we're absolutely saying, yeah, we'll take 29. Who are you? I guess you would. Oh, please. Sorry.
 My name is Jeff Joyce, the attorney for the developer. And you mentioned the memorandum of understanding. I think the memorandum of understanding would be a document between the neighborhood and the developer. And so it doesn't involve the city. And so I guess my thought is... Wait a minute. Don't do that. But if you have something like was suggested that was put on the plat, then I think that gives...
 or make it a condition to the large scale development approval, then I think it becomes part of the city's documentation of the approval and it can be used for that. Again, the developer is more than happy to limit that to those 29 spaces.
 And I think the plat is probably, the notation on the plat is probably the better way to do that. We just drafted the memorandum of understanding. We weren't comfortable doing a bill of assurance, but we were okay with the memorandum of understanding. And I think this plat, like anything, is a good compromise that I think actually benefits the parties a little more, which includes city involvement.
 mayor can i follow up um so kit uh is there a problem with including the city as part of the memorandum of understanding can there be three parties in this not just two well i think uh you
 Now, the city could be a party if we wanted to do it, but I think it's really better to have it on the plat. I thought the large-scale development plats got filed. Is that not right? Only filed in your office, or are they not filed in the courthouse? An easement plat would be filed in the courthouse and in the office. Yeah, so we've got a permanent record there.
 It's not going to get lost. It's there in the courthouse. Besides, we're the ones that run the parking plan. So you think we're going to forget about it between now and when you do the parking plan, that they're not entitled to more than 29 speeches? So I think that is a much better way to do it than have have some sort of contract that then you have to go to court to try to enforce it. If it's on the plaque, we just don't give you more than 29. Sorry.
 I mean, you can sue us, but it ain't going to work. It ain't going to work. So it's a really much better thing to put it on the plat. It's become part of the official record. We're not going to forget about it because we're one city here and parking. Everybody's going to know about it. And that will satisfactorily limit their number of parking passes if such neighborhood parking district is created.
 To the 29 or 28, I can't, I'm not sure really of that number. Jonathan was saying 29, and then I heard from other people 28. 29. I would defer to Jonathan and say 29. But I would rather see it on the plan. And if your client, let me ask you this. Sure. If your client puts that on the plan, they agree that that's something they're doing voluntarily in order to get the city council to deny this appeal. Correct. Okay. Okay.
 all right thank you mayor um i think this is a perfect example of a very very difficult situation that uh we're trying to navigate through and i applaud both the developers and the neighbors for trying to to uh speak and to with each other and try to work through it um
 I think it also highlights the fact that we've got to address our parking ordinance because it continues to be a challenge to us in some of these developments. However, in the past I've said I cannot hold different organizations to rules that are not on the books. I have to hold them to the stipulation, the rules that are there.
 In this case, I tried to find every way in the world to say no, because I do see that it's going to be potentially a problem. But I feel like we have with the ability to develop a parking district. I think that is a good compromise. And I'm going to have to because the developers are following the rules that are on the books,
 Deny the appeal with the stipulation that we add to the plat about the the 29 Parking spaces on them because I feel very confident the neighborhood if we forget the neighborhood will not forget Okay Thank You mayor Jordan I want to echo what council member it's hard said I don't think it's I
 unreasonable to ask for the MOU I feel like the the relationship between the the the neighborhood and the developers I just think that it it gives me some I just feel that it it
 It gives me comfort knowing that that's present because I know that this has been a process and there are some concerns. And I do appreciate compromising because it's been a long process. However, I just feel like that having the MOU certainly won't hurt. I feel that that's going to give the neighbors some comfort.
 I think that I'm with Councilmember Tarrick. I think that we should table this until that's established. However, I do recognize that time is money. And I certainly, certainly, certainly, I know what that feels like. And so how long do you think it would take to get that drafted? Well, I would like to, I guess my first thought is that we have been working with the neighborhood.
 We've had several meetings with them. We've exchanged bill of assurance, memorandum of understanding. We've worked with them and we will continue to work with them, right? I think again, the biggest concern is that 28, 29 parking spaces that are, you know, with respect to that parking management district, if and when it comes to fruition. And again, I think we're willing to put that on the plat and we'll continue to work with
 How long would it take you to get the MOU? That was my question. The MOU was already drafted. Okay. It was circulated this morning. Okay. I just don't want to, you know, delay this for another when I think the main point of that memorandum of understanding, at least from my standpoint, was that 28 spaces. Okay. We're saying we're putting that on the plat. We are committed to being a good neighbor. We want to continue to have those conversations and work with them.
 But if we start developing and start putting that in the ground and the city starts having discussions on the parking management district, you know, that's certainly, you know, we're in that area of town. Okay. Thank you for that. Thank you. DeAndre, if I could also say, I think having it on the plat is actually more enforceable than any agreement. You don't want the neighbors to have to go out and hire a lawyer to sue if they think that they're having a problem with this.
 And they won't have a problem because the city knows, you know, look at the plat. The plat's filed in the county courthouse. It's there for everybody to see. And we also know, we've got our parking man right here, that if this parking district is done, that this development will be limited, not more than, not guaranteeing them 29, not more than 29 spaces. Okay. Passes, I mean. Okay. Thank you, Kit. Thank you for that.
 okay sure uh yes jonathan i have a question what right now what are these people allowed to build on this property under its current zoning right now that's a very broad question and the the zoning entitlement on the property is is very broad and that makes it very difficult to to uh
 to answer that question um i guess i can go with the extreme version i think maybe that would be helpful go there okay the property zone downtown general dg which allows everything from single family homes to multi-family homes it allows restaurants it allows retails retail allows offices it allows up to five stories there's no density limit the the number of units is is limited by things like parking stormwater detention tree preservation uh so
 The envelope of what can be done on the property is a five-story building that can either be residential, non-residential, or a mix of the two. Okay. And how long did this go through? I mean, what was the time frame that this went through Planning Commission and that it's been to the council and we've been hashing this around? Okay.
 We staff started looking at this project in, I think it was January of this year when the developer approached us with that back-end parking proposal and just the initial idea for what could be done on the property. It worked its way through development review, got to the planning commission on August 12th, where it was denied. It came back for reconsideration on August 26th. The planning commission tabled it there to re-notify the neighbors, given the amount of public input. It was heard again at September 23rd,
 And that's where it was approved with that vote I shared earlier, the 8-1 vote. And now this is the second council meeting at which it's being heard. Okay. So it started in January this year, and now we're in December this year. I am going to side with the city attorney on this and believe that the note on the plat can be used as a placeholder.
 for when we get the get a parking district done i don't want to hold this at this time until we have a parking district because that could take if that takes another let's say it happens very quickly and it takes we've got holidays we've got all sorts of things going on we've got let's say it takes two months
 We're into the new year, we're into past this being an entire year of working on this. So I feel comfortable using that as a placeholder for the future of a parking district. And once we get that established, like the city attorney said, we're not going to forget about it. The neighborhood's not going to forget about it. And I think that's the best route for us to go. So those are my thoughts on this.
 so here thank you mayor um to build um on the comments by council member bunch um you know i'm in agreement as well i feel like it sounds very sufficient to be able to add um the number of spaces onto the plot as well i don't see any reason to delay given the timeline that was given um i don't know that we're gonna you know get any new information um or there's gonna be anything else additionally hashed out and so um i want to thank you know all the neighbors and the developer
 for you guys continuing to discuss and be good neighbors talking together. I do really appreciate that conversation. I also too just want us to really level set our expectation to that we have so many new neighbors coming to our community every single day, seeking out a place to live. Traffic is going to increase, more children are gonna come into our community and other adults. And so they have to have places to live. And when they live further out,
 They drive further commutes and oftentimes in that hurry to get somewhere, they're going to start cutting through our different neighborhoods. So we do have some challenges as we grow and I don't think it's particular just to this project. I think that we as a community, as a region are growing in this way and are going to have to address these things regardless of whether this property ends up being there or not because of given where you're located.
 thoroughfare and starting to see with our neighborhood, you know, picking up the traffic as well. And I have children. We have children in our neighborhood and we have no sidewalks. And so, you know, these are concerns we all share together and have to hold hands to figure out together. But I don't think the solution is saying that these developments can't go forward. In fact, you know, us approving the 71 corridor and talking about, in particular, down 71 adding density. These are the types of projects we really ask.
 the development community to come forward. And so I do not also want to be discouraging to the efforts, to the time, money, and labor that's put into those as well. And I think there is conversation in our region that there is concern within the banking community and concern within our development community about the need for more of a more inclusive
 whether or not there is a commitment to these types of projects i mean i do think that is a part of the conversation um whenever we do zone in a particular way and then we we do have these conversations about whether these are a fit in our community and so i think it does create a little confusion and so um you know i again i understand the complexities and i appreciate us working through this tonight and i hope that we can support this project tonight okay come on
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You can sit down, sir. As good as you are. My concern all along has simply been as I look at the potential reasons for approval or denial of the application and we go through the individual variances, I don't feel that I have a leg to stand on on anything except.
 the on-street parking on nelson hackett that continues to give me heartburn and there's 10 spaces there and and i feel like the project that there's no grounds for me to deny it other than to express that concern and the variance i have to point out isn't for on street parking it's for the slip lane and i have two concerns with that one is
 you know, we're going to pay for the bus service if we get an additional stop or multiple stops, and that's fine, that's life. But I haven't heard anyone say how much room does that bus need to pull beside parked cars and have other cars safely navigate around it in that slip lane because that's absolutely what the bus is going to use.
 And that would be better than having the bus attempt to navigate through the neighborhood, to be honest with you. I just feel that we've had some people mention a request that we consider our parking standards for residential, which I think I'll be curious to see if the majority of council is interested in doing that.
 But if I understand correctly, it's our code which is requiring them to currently propose the on street parking. And that's a concern that I have if this same street standard applies to school to the south and college to the north, that we'll be looking at on street parking being required for every single development. And to me,
 College Avenue is not the place I want to see on street parking. I want to see vehicles continuing To move and traverse and get where they're trying to get that's different than a residential neighborhood And so while I wish the variance was for the on street parking and I would vote to deny that it's for the slip lane and if I deny the slip lane and
 then I'm simply impacting the neighborhood with 10 additional parking stalls because the project can lose those and still comply with code and that's going to be 10 additional vehicles in the neighborhood. So in a sense that's counter productive for me to do that and so the best I can do at this point is to say please let's communicate with the bus company to find out where
 a bus stop would go and what kind of space we need to keep everyone safe in that area. Because although I don't like it, I understand there's plenty of things that have been presented to me that I had little choice on and that I needed to go along with simply because they were meeting the letter of our code. And this appears to be one of those situations.
 The second thing that I would want to say now that I've bitched and given my whole heartburn on that, and just get over it and we're fine, I'll turn the page.
 but it deals with the reminder that the development even though there's 29 spaces they're not guaranteed those spaces it's still a first come first serve for those spaces they would be entitled to 29 parking permits if there's a parking permit program in the neighborhood but those spaces are not owned by the development even though they're paying to widen the street and those spaces would be in
 presumably in city easement at this point, they're giving up land, soil to create that space. And those would be still first come first serve for long-term vehicle storage. So yes, I agree. We want housing, we want housing in this location. The parking situation gives me heartburn. The parking situation meets code and it would be inappropriate of me
 having looked at other projects that were similar and supported them to suddenly flip and oppose this project given my prior approval for similar variances on other similar projects. But I do have to go on record that the first person attempting a U-turn on Nelson Hack at southbound when they see an available spot is going to, I'll
 I know it's going to happen, it's inevitable, it's regrettable, and I just don't want to see us perpetuate this problem for every project that goes up college. Thank you. Okay, let's see. Yondre. I just wanted to mention that when the last time we met there was a concern about the developers and the neighborhood meeting.
 And I'm very glad that they were able to meet because they were able to reach common to meet common ground and The neighborhood continued to echo that it's not about development and so
 I really appreciate being able to compromise and reach some type of common ground because initially that wasn't the case. But tonight it seems as though that there has been, it's not a perfect solution, but I believe it's a viable solution in that it's working together and to the developers, again,
 time is money and of course, you know, as a council member, this is not intentional, but it's about balancing and striking a balance and making sure that we're listening to our neighbors loud and clear, making sure that we're listening to the neighborhood. We recognize that we are in a housing crisis. Nonetheless, we have to make sure that we do it right. And there are a lot of things that we have to consider.
 Again, I do appreciate the patience of the neighborhood and they have been very diligent and they've been very active and very engaged and I really appreciate that because if that were my neighborhood, I would do the same thing. So again, thank you so much for your patience and I do look forward to working on the parking district.
 THERE'S BEEN SOME CONCERN ABOUT THAT AND SOME ENCOURAGEMENT AS WELL. YES, I'M SORRY. CAN I MAKE A POINT OF CLARIFICATION? ON THE NOTE THAT'S GOING TO BE ON THE PLAT, I THINK WHAT WE SAID AND I WANTED TO, BECAUSE COUNCILMEMBER WEDECKER MENTIONED THIS, I THINK THE DEVELOPER
 we need 29 spots in the parking management district if it's created. If it's first come, first serve, and we only get one spot, that does nothing to help our parking situation. And so we have 29 spots now. If there's a parking management district,
 we would want those 29 spots. We won't take more than 29 spots, but we do need those 29 spots. And so, again, maybe that's semantics. Maybe I misheard you, but I want to make sure that we're granted 29 spots in the parking management district if and when it's created. Well, parking districts are set up differently, and we can have different zones within a single parking district. So some of this I'll talk with Justin about, but
 I think it would be feasible to have as one zone in that parking district would be the zone for the parking places around your place. But then those parking passes would only be good for those two. They wouldn't be good for the whole zone. And so the whole zone would be available then for the neighbors with their parking passes, but it would not be for your tenants. We're good with that. Thank you.
 Okay, Holly. Thank you, Mayor. If we're going to move forward with the note on the plat kit, what would be the procedure? Do we need to make an amendment or is there another point that we need to have? Honey, you should ask because I've been drafting an amendment assuming that the council might want to do this.
 And so right now the resolution is entitled a resolution to grant the appeal of city council member john gray jones and deny the large-scale development application lsd 2024 dash 11 that title would change uh to deny the appeal and then and same whereas clauses, but then section one would be changed from Saying that the lsd has been denied. He would say
 The council denies the appeal with the added condition that the developer place upon its plat, its agreement with the city that limits any parking passes for this development for any neighborhood parking district.
 to be limited to not more than 29 spaces, passes, not spaces, passes. And I think we would say grants us 29 spaces rather than not more than, because I'm trying to make sure that those 29 spaces are protected. And I think if you say not more, it makes it sound like it can be one to 29. Mayor, can we keep the discussion with the council?
 I'm sorry. Can we keep the discussion with the council, please? Okay. I thought the two. My apologies, Council Member Hertzberg. Thank you. Kit, I'd like to, or Council, I'd like to move to amend to the resolution that Kit proposed. Second. Okay. All right. So it would be a no vote on the appeal. Is that right, Kit? Well, first, you would be amending it to this, and that would require a yes vote. Oh, okay. And as opposed to most appeals, it's,
 Which you're right, it would require a no vote to do it. I've changed the resolution now to actually be positive in both directions. So first you'd have to amend it to this, and then if you do amend it to this, then to pass the resolution would be to do this, to limit the passes to 29. It's a yes, yes.
 Okay. The first is the amendment. I'm just making sure I got this all straight. She was first. All right. Well, let's vote on the amendment then. All right. Carriage, please call the roll. Dr. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Church? Yes. Hertzberg?
 Okay, now we have the amended resolution and I told you also the title has been amended I haven't written that out, but I can figure that out tomorrow. I move we pass the amended resolution Second, okay Just want to make sure we're clear a vote yes means we're denying the appeal of
 but we're approving with stipulation that on condition that we're adding the stipulation on the flat. Right, yeah. Okay. 29. Yep. Just to double clarify because this is confusing because I think a lot of us were getting ready to vote no, but now to vote no on the appeal we're voting yes.
 Right, because the resolution has been changed. You just amended it to be a positive vote, which denies the appeal on the condition that they agree to add this language to the flat. Okay. Anyway, that's why I got it, too. I hope. All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Dr. Jones? No. Moore? Yes. Lee, Kerr? Yes. No.
 Arnon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Thurk? Yes. Artsburg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Now let's go to number three. Eight o'clock. Okay. Y'all want a little break? About ten minutes? All right. Thank you.
 Okay, let's go ahead and get started again. Okay. Are we starting the... Excuse me, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor, are we starting the meeting? We are starting the meeting. Okay. Okay.
 I've beaten Dan in that one. Alright, number three.
 A resolution to adopt the 2025 annual budget and work program. Paul. Mayor and Council, I'm not going to bore you all by going over the same slides we've looked at before. I'll just make a couple quick comments. Remember, the overall budget that we're looking at right now for operations is just over $254 million. That's up $12.5 million compared to last year, roughly 5%.
 35 percent of that budget is personnel, so it is personnel oriented. The largest funds within that, of course, are the general fund, which is $77 million request, and that's 35 percent of the total of the $254 million. Water and sewage, 25 percent of that, and debt services, 13 percent of that. That's where the concentration of our expenditures are. Within the general fund,
 we're requesting an increase of $4 million to take it from $73 million last year to $77 million this year. That's roughly a 5% increase. 76% of that is due to personnel, basically for salary increases that we looked at last year. As far as new people, we're looking at recommending that is, hiring six people in the general fund.
 five people in the street fund, eight in the water and sewer fund as we'd like to establish two new crews. In addition to the crews we have right now, one to look at water leaks and the other to look at sewer leaks, which we're concentrating on right now. One new position in recycling and trash collection and one new position at airport. So we tried to pare that down and keep that keep the
 the number of new positions at a minimum. We've prepared this budget as conservatively as possible. Therefore, with that, I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions? We have all on the question. Okay.
 Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to be first in the chamber? Okay. No one on Zoom has their hand raised. Okay. Bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What's the wish of the council? Thank you.
 Mayor, thank you. I'd like to make a motion to amend the 25 budget to include $200,000 to the sales tax capital fund to fund an impact fee study to update the current amounts of water and sewer, police and fire impact fees.
 We touched on this during our budget workshop at the beginning of November. And so I worked with staff, with Paul, and Paul's here to answer any potential other questions. I just wanted to make sure that we have it in our budget to roadmap it and to hit the ground running as soon as we can. It's come up in different conversations about different developments and being concerned about the process.
 the possibility that the rest of taxpayers are subsidizing some of this. And so wanting to start as soon as possible to understand the all-in cost. I'm happy to take any questions. Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Sarah, for sending that yesterday. I appreciated that. So...
 I guess I thought that that was already, that we had that in mind already to actually do a study and that it was somewhere already in the budget. No, it wasn't in the budget. It was not in the budget. We talked about it and as we discussed it, we talked about impact fees. I said that we needed an update on that impact fee. Now what my intent was going to be is we'll review the total capital improvement plan
 sometime this year, and I was going to bring forward that that be adopted at this point in time. What Sarah would like to do is accelerate that at this point in time. So if the council wishes, that's what this amendment's all about. That's wonderful. Thank you for explaining that.
 I wanted to also make sure that there's funding already in there for the water and sewer rate study that we need to get done. So these two things are separate, right? They are separate. Okay. Thank you. And, okay, sorry, one last question. Where are the funds that Sarah is proposing, the $200,000, where are they coming from? We take that out of some reserves. We do have some limited reserves in the sales tax capital fund.
 Now we need some reserves. And I remember as we developed the capital improvement plan, those are all estimates. We never know those change just like the estimate for $200,000. That's ballpark like me. Could be more, could be less, but we have to be prepared to make adjustments in that. We have to make sure we've got cashflow in there. So we keep some limited reserves, but I feel comfortable that we can fund that with the reserves. Excellent. Thank you so much. And thank you, Sarah.
 uh bob yeah i also want to uh well my mic's booming um i also want to thank uh council member moore uh for bringing this i too thought that this was that this impact fee study was already in the works we had talked about it at our workshop and i think uh council member whedeker brought it up a few times and
 i just had it in my head that we were already doing it so i'm glad that uh and i think this is an important thing to get that in the budget and so we can uh move forward on it as quickly as possible okay so we have an amendment on the budget to add 200 000 for impact fees on yes i'm sorry oh second sarah did you have a question oh sorry i was i was just wondering uh i couldn't pull up
 the amendment right now but what is the acceleration of that what is the time frame that we're looking what is the time frame well we're going to have to once we move into the year we've got several things that we are working on we're going to have to get planning involved we're going to have to have some coordination involved so we can put this out probably I'll go out for proposal in the first quarter
 From there, there's a lot of work on that that we're going to have to do. The police department, fire department, and water and sewer is going to have to work on capital plans and what they're going to need in the next few years. That's incorporated. We also have to get together what the estimated building or expansion plan for...
 building here in the city is so those have to be put together and they all go together in a plan and then we sort it out from there so it takes a while to do to do that but I would anticipate going out for proposal sometime in the first quarter we do have a couple of things we'll have to take care of first and then we'll have to coordinate with everybody okay that's that kind of gives me a time right okay thank you very much
 All right, we've got a motion and a second to put in an amendment of $200,000 for the impact fee study. Accelerated, correct? Yes. Okay, thank you. Chair, would you please call the roll? Dr. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turg? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Okay, now we have the amended budget. Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. So I also tonight had had some conversations with staff and really had some heartburn about moving forward with passing the budget tonight to kind of humor me. I'm sorry, I'm going to take a minute. But over this last year,
 um we had had our budget or had a um a city council workshop in january and expressed his desire to have a different process for our budget this year and unfortunately we still followed that same timeline um i tonight want to move forward in good faith
 that we can address some things and can amend the budget as it allows in 25 But I also want to point out areas. I do have incredible concern But because you know we did look at the budget only in early November with holidays, etc And much going on within our city getting to today There hasn't been a lot of time given all the money you should to be able in my opinion to do the public and
 vetting and discussion in public while I've had those private conversations. And so I have a desire that we can change that in 25 so that we can start the budget process sooner, sometime in the summer to start to get some visibility and to get some community feedback as we shape that plan. But I definitely want to point out, as we have declared a housing crisis,
 And we have so many incredible comprehensive plans that might touch on things. We do not have a strategy and a focus on affordable housing. And I think that's something that really we are going to have to look at and address, having a comprehensive plan around affordable housing. And we have $300,000 that we're spending to move individuals who are in camp that are unhoused. We really are going to have to, and the affordable housing plan has an ability to
 have us address our unhoused population in a dignified manner so that we aren't spending $300,000 to relocate them and to remove trash around our city long term. I also have concerns about continuing to add spending in our police department.
 whenever there are additional needs within our city that we do need to look at in regard to healthcare capacity and how we respond to crisis for individuals that are struggling in our community, as well as I have incredible pause about the continued growth of the poverty within our community and not having specific programs and focuses that are within a comprehensive strategy and plan and hope that we'll look at those in the year to come.
 Additionally, as I've brought up in the past around the pay study and having some concern, we do recognize, and I think our budget is an opportunity for us to have those conversations about our staff are so incredibly valuable, and we appreciate their expertise so much, but there are so many market pressures out there. And so I see that there is an opportunity, too, for us to look at how we continue to look at a living wage and the...
 given all of the pressures that we're going to face going forward with the competition and the private market and really a changing landscape. And so I'm very hopeful that we'll start to look into that, include that for the next budget cycle. But I wanted to make sure that I went on record that those are things that I have a desire that we will continue to talk about in the coming year. And as we have the ability within our budget, I would like to be able to look at those and focus and address them. Thank you.
 Okay. Mayor, I'll make a motion to pass the budget as presented. Second. I have a motion and a second to pass the budget. Any final comments? All right. Carriage, please call the roll. Dr. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Arna? Yes. Batch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Stafford? Stafford. Yes. Thank you all. Everybody get paid now.
 All right, let's go to number four. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-51 for approximately 4.49 acres located southeast of the intersection of West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 and south smokehouse trail and ward one from rpzd residential plans on district cs community services this was left on the first reading i would entertain a motion to go to the second reading so moved second second motion is second to go to the second reading coverage please call dr jones yes more yes yes yes
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to rezone the property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2024-51 for approximately four and a half acres located southeast of the intersection of West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and South Smokehouse Trail in Ward 1 from RPZD Residential Plan Zoning District to CS Community Services.
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. I only have one update, and it's to reiterate what I shared with those of you who were able to attend agenda session. If the council recalls, one of the main items that this was left on the reading for was concern about the potential to develop the property with a septic system.
 While there may be a path to do that, to develop the site with a septic system as allowed by our state statutes, I did think it was valuable to clarify for the council that the developer, the applicant, has plans with the city today to extend the sanitary sewer line that is nearest to the southwest at Ruple and MLK with the intent of connecting to it.
 and so I'm happy to take any questions in regard to that and mayor Gavin Smith is here as the applicant who may have comments on that topic as well thank you okay we're dad I'd like to speak for the council I'm Gavin Smith I'm the representative for the applicant we do have the sewer designed and it's currently under review and submitted for
 you know approval and it would just take the sewer straight down the road to the manhole that's right now under smokehouse lane and i can answer any other questions yet okay do we have any questions
 thank you mayor um so you have an easement or you have approval to run that you're just getting the city to uh agree to i guess the size and the connection and that sort of thing yeah so there's an existing easement already along there and there's a kind of what you might call like a transmission line for the water system there it's like an oversized line that takes a lot of water to farmington there's extra space in that easement but because the easement um the
 But because the right-of-way is centered on the road and the road is slowly growing because it's a highway, the easement has kind of shifted and the right-of-way has shifted. There's no longer space on the outside and it shifts like we have a sliver missing from the easement to have the proper separation from the sewer and water. Then, we have a separation to the outside of the easement on the outside. It goes from about 36 inches to 16 inches.
 that was why the original lsd that we brought forward got cancelled because the city didn't want to entertain a you know like an exception for easement width right there so we have been working with the neighbor and we don't have the easement right now because we have an agreement that is contingent upon approval of the sewer to get the easement okay so in theory if you get approval then everything will work out okay yeah thank you so much for clarifying all of that yeah okay
 anything else okay let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn speak three minute grace don't engage anyone in the public or any councilmember stay on topic please give us your name the address those present chain will be allowed to speak first those participating but then we'll speak after that who would like to address this in his chamber on this okay
 then i'll bring no one on zoom i'm going to bring it back to the council what's the wish i would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading coverage please call the road dr jones yes moore yes weaker yes vernon yes yes yes burt spurt yes stafford yes
 In order to rezone the property ascribed in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-51, per property 4.49 acres located southeast of the intersection of West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and South Smokehouse Trail in Ward 1 from RPZD Residential Plan Zoning District 2CS Community Services. Any final comments from the Council?
 care which please call the roll dr jones yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes stafford yes all right let's go to new business
 A resolution to authorize acceptance of a Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration grant in the amount of $25 million through Safe Streets and Roads for All program to approve a grant agreement with the Federal Highway Administration to approve two full-time staff positions to manage the federal aid funding requirements and to approve budget adjustments establishing a new fund to account for the proceeds of the grant. Correct.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. In mid 2023, the city and all of the other cities in the region, in concert with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission, developed a Safe Streets for All plan. So it was a region-wide plan that established a path forward to zero deaths in all of the cities. So that's the goal of the plan.
 Because that plan was developed and approved, that gave us the opportunity to apply for implementation grants, basically construction grants through the Safe Streets for All program. We did that in mid 2023.
 And in December of 2023, we learned we were awarded $25 million, which is the highest grant amount that you could receive through that program. So it was a very exciting announcement. I think we all remember that announcement. It's been a year since that was announced.
 In this past year, we've been working on the federal aid grant agreement. The copy of the grant agreement is in there. You can see all of the detail, all the things we were working through with the Federal Highway Administration. So that's what we've been working on for a year. We're finally here in front of you to ask for approval of that grant agreement.
 The project, the program includes five projects, the Maple Street from Gregg to Garland through campus which is basically fully designed. We're ready to hire a contractor and get started on that project as soon as we can get the grant agreement in place.
 The College Avenue Sycamore to Township, we have some preliminary design on that one, along with School Avenue between MLK and 15th Street. Both of those we have some preliminary design and planning on, so we'll be able to move forward with detailed design on those projects. We have two other projects
 Joyce Boulevard between College and Crossover and Gregg Avenue between North Street and the Fulbright Expressway. Those, we just have some ideas. We do need to get some study done, so we need to hire consultants to get those going. We also, the program includes $500,000 in education and awareness funding.
 That will be to be determined, but those funds will be used to help educate about all kinds of things safety related around our transportation program.
 As the Mayor mentioned, the budget does include two staff members that will be funded through the program for five years. This is a five-year program, so those two staff members will help us administer this $25 million grant.
 So, in front of you, also I should mention this is an 80, 75-25 grant. Typically these are 80-20, but we did produce an overmatch on this. So 25% match is $7.25 million, which will be budgeted through the current bond program or potentially future bonds if we, as we go through the five-year period.
 We also have matching funds working with the U of A on the Maple Street project. They committed to $1.25 million in matching funds for that particular project.
 So what you have in front of you is a request to approve the grant agreement, approve a budget adjustment recognizing just $25 million, and the matching funds from the U of A to establish a new fund to track these funds in our accounting system, and then to approve the additional positions. So we're excited to get to work. We actually have the
 procurement for the construction manager the contractor uh for maple street that's uh in the works right now so we're ready to hit the ground running as soon as uh we have uh have the ink dry on this agreement i can answer any questions
 Susan, didn't you say we had to put a couple of amendments on? Oh, Chris, you were going to modify it. Oh, I'm sorry, yes. Thank you, Mayor. We did. That wasn't why I didn't put it on consent, but we do have to put a couple of amendments on it. Yeah, and I think it's not an amendment, but we do want to call your attention to the...
 The contract changed ever so slightly. The grant agreement dates that were in the contract that Federal Highways provided to
 had, I think, the award date, which was a year ago. But we really wanted that to be changed to the date that we signed the agreement. We have five years to spend these funds, so we didn't want to have a year down the drain before we ever started. So that's really the only change is the start date of the contract. So you don't need an amendment or anything? I think we just updated the attachment, and so I think the 
 uh i think especially with a contract this size i'd like to see a motion from the city council to amend the exhibit not not the resolution but the exhibit just as described by uh chris merrimick emotion to uh amend the exhibit second okay you have a motion second from the end of the exhibit here which police called rome dr jones yes more yes
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and we still need a vote on the resolution yeah I mean if we approve the resolution did it I got to take public comment I'm sorry hey everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone
 from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating will speak after that so anyone would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber okay anybody on zoom no one on zoom has their hand raised mayor all right we've got a motion in a second all right any final comments i just would like to say one thing when we competed
 i want to tell you how good the staff did we competed against cities all over the united states the the grant we got was 25 million dollars there was only one city in the united states that got more money than we did and that was new york city and they got 28. so um
 i wanted to give a shout out to the staff that worked on this that was quite an accomplishment at all we almost sold him a standing ovation but i'll give him a couple great job okay care which please call the road there's not been a motion or something oh i'm sorry i'm i move we approve the resolution second second we have a motion second to uh pass resolution dr jones yes yes
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay all right let's go on to number two an ordinance to enact
 Chapter 52 storm water management utility fee to the federal code of ordinances kit Well mayor before I read the body of the enacting ordinance. I would like the City Council if possible to amend the enacting ordinance by adding a two new whereas clauses that were recommended by staff on this and I sent them out to you on November 26th in the memo and
 And they're just, they just are additional reasons why we should enact the stormwater management utility fee. And Kit and Mayor, I put a copy of that at each of your places so that you can see it tonight. It came out, Kit sent it out last week, but we thought it might have gotten lost in the Thanksgiving. And it's the last two are the new ones. Mayor, I'd like to amend the ordinance to include the new whereas clauses. I have no second. Second.
 care which put oh any discussion carriage please call the rope we don't take comments on the amendment everybody everybody calm we'll get we'll get to everybody we're just doing the amendment right now there was
 After Jones, yes More yes weaker. Yes Bernard yes, thanks. Yes, sir. Yes, yes Stafford yes, okay now go ahead and read the body of the ordinance and
 Whereas during the last two decades, the frequency and intensity of major rainstorms striking Fayetteville has continued to increase dramatically. And whereas the City of Fayetteville has worked diligently with our available revenues to improve and enhance our stormwater management facilities, but unfortunately flooding problems have continued as global warming has increased and created ever larger rainstorms, threatening to overwhelm our existing stormwater management facilities.
 And whereas the City of Fayetteville has enacted improved stormwater management requirements for new developments, that yet even larger and continual investments into the City's stormwater management facilities are necessary to better handle the increasing rainstorms that continue to intensify in number and in amount of rainfall they deliver to Fayetteville.
 And whereas state law now authorizes cities to enact stormwater management utilities to equitably, fairly, and efficiently raise revenue needed to fund necessary stormwater management facilities to better protect citizens' homes, businesses, and institutions from the increasing dangers of flooding that we face now and which is likely to continue increasing in the future.
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the stormwater utility fee, I should say stormwater management utility fee, is necessary to equitably and efficiently fund stormwater management services in order to provide for the safety, preserve the health, and promote the prosperity of Fayetteville residents and businesses and institutions,
 And whereas the City Council also agrees with and adopts all the purposes explained in Section 5201, Purpose of the Proposed New Code Section. And whereas the Proposed Stormwater Management Utility Fee Chapter has been carefully crafted to ensure it is fair and reasonable and bears a reasonable relationship to the benefits conferred on those paying for and receiving its services.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines and finds that Chapter 52, Stormwater Management Utility Fee, with its Sustainable Credit Framework provision, is fair and reasonable and bears a reasonable relationship to the benefits conferred on those paying and receiving its services.
 Section 2 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs. I'll hereby enacts chapter 52 Stormwater management utility fee into the Fayetteville code of ordinance. Okay Chris Mayor have a Presentation here for you and no guarantees that it won't go over ten minutes So well, that's all you get I give you more time. I understand. I'll do my best. I
 So I made this presentation several times, so some of it may be a little bit repetitive, but I think it bears repeating. So I want to go through this agenda. So first of all, why are we talking about additional funding? And the first thing is the city is a municipal separate storm sewer system.
 MS4 for short. That's our designation through ADEQ and EPA. That is what we are called for permitting purposes. We have certain requirements as a small MSA, MS4.
 As we go into over 100,000 by an official census, we will become a medium MS4. We will have additional requirements. There are no medium MS4s in the state, so we don't know what those requirements will be. We know there will be additional
 testing, those sorts of things, water quality requirements and what those costs are still out there and yet to be determined.
 We also, as part of this, we talked a lot about service expectations and equity. At the moment, we are not meeting expectations for a lot of our citizens. We also are not providing equitable services throughout the city. In newer parts of town where we have better storm drainage systems that were as a result of better ordinances.
 Those citizens have better services, have less flooding, less issues. So the older parts of town where we did not have those in place are seeing worse issues. So obviously that puts properties at risk and also carries water quality risks by not being able to adequately serve and meet our citizens' expectations.
 This is a slide that we've shown before as well. What does this all mean? Why does everybody have to, why is everybody involved here? Even if you live at the top of the hill, you have the same impact on the storm drain system. The amount of water that comes off a property, no matter where it is in the watershed, has the same kind of impact, has the same kind of
 necessity for the city to manage that water through the system until it goes into streams and eventually leaves the city. This is very much the same as a sewer utility. You flush your toilet, it doesn't matter where you are in the system, it goes through a system of pipes. You never see that again, but it is maintained and has to be managed throughout the system.
 So I'll just talk a little bit about timeline. We started this study in 2018, the current version of this study, but we can go all the way back to 2006.
 when we developed an agreement with the Beaver Waters with the Beaver Water District for nutrient reduction. This actually was a significant savings to the city at that time. We were able to keep our permitting levels, our percentage of phosphorus going into the outfall at our Nolan treatment plant the same while agreeing to reduce pollutants in other areas by use of various stormwater mechanisms.
 The first thing that we did that we agreed to as part of that agreement was to develop a nutrient reduction plan. That plan was completed in 2009 and it recommended at that time that a stormwater utility be considered for additional funding and water quality benefits. In 2010, we completed a draft study and
 And then the recession kind of hit and that fell by the wayside, really didn't come up again until 2017 at a large flooding event.
 the recognition was renewed that we weren't providing adequate we didn't have adequate funding to adequately serve our citizens meet their expectations so in 2018 we began this study 2019 we had a couple of meetings with a special council stormwater committee and then October we completed the initial study
 and presented that to the council committee. And then 2020, we all know what happened in 2020. So this program was paused again. Finally, in December of 2021, we began working on this again, brought it back to the committee.
 four other council committee meetings over the course of the next year. Finally, in July of 2022, we had a resolution of intent to adopt the utility. At that time, the impervious area was from 2018, and so the council approved funding to update the impervious area.
 So then in 2023, some additional council meetings. Ultimately in May of this year, we finalized the program and the council approved resolution to adopt the stormwater utility again, and to really get into the building database and get more prepared to have this conversation tonight.
 So, the big thing that we've been doing since that time is refining our impervious areas and getting this billing tool put together. So this is the tool that was put together so that any citizen can put in their address and see what their impervious area is and what their proposed fee would be based on the rates that we've developed.
 The public outreach, once we completed the billing tool about a month ago that we've done, we sent out, you can see all the emails that we've sent out. We did have very good engagement on that. We did have quite a few people who clicked on the billing tool and we've had several folks contact us asking questions, that sort of thing. So you can see all of the engagement. We did send out
 a follow-up email with this updated council date as the dates change on us. We've had about 25 residents that have submitted questions and comments, and we had nine other residents who attended the in-person sessions that we set up. I believe you have most, if not all, of that comment included in your council agenda.
 The top comments that we received overestimating impervious area. I think one in particular, there was a concern about a city trail that was on the particular property.
 the way the system works if you have impervious area on an identified property then that is picked up as impervious area included in the calculations but we can go back and adjust that through gis overlay the city easements on those areas and strip that out so those are those are the that's an example of something that is additional refinement needed in our building database
 Another major question, what if I have a very large lot in a small impervious area, do I get any credit out of that? And the answer to that is maybe. If you are using that large lot to mitigate the impacts of stormwater, then, and we'll talk about the credit program a little bit later, that could be considered as a credit for your stormwater fee.
 Why is gravel driveway included as impervious? That's the way we look at all of these. So in a development situation, developers have to
 mitigate any additional impervious area and make sure they provide detention and water quality improvements for any of their additional impervious areas. So on a development project if they have existing gravel we consider that impervious. That's just by definition what we consider gravel to be. In most cases gravel is very nearly if not fully impervious especially if it's compacted.
 There are situations where you can have a gravel system. There are various proprietary systems that you can create an impervious situation with the gravel driveway, but there are parameters around that.
 So to get into the program a little bit more, again, what we really wanted to do is look at an equitable program so that regardless of location in the watershed, size of the property, or any other factor other than impervious area, this program is blind to that. So it's really just a matter of how much impervious area do you have,
 And that is the basis of the fee. The total of the fees were set to provide the funding level to meet those levels of service that we talked about. And for those of you all who were in the meetings over the years, that was a big discussion in the early days of this study. What is our expected level of service? What do our citizens look for? And what does that look like in terms of cost on a yearly basis?
 We also have developed a credit framework to be able to reduce billing for certain activities, and we'll talk a little bit more about that in a minute. So really just start getting into the nuts and bolts of this. After going through that level of service discussion, looking at our existing budget, which is about $1.5 million.
 We've calculated that we need a little over $3 million, $3.1 million of additional needs in order to adequately meet those levels of service that were established.
 So the basis of the fee calculations, again, assume the $1.5 million of continued funding. We're using the 2022 program cost and impervious area, and the bills will be sent to the city's sewer utility customers. And I think that's important. You'll see that here in a moment. So this is kind of it here. This is really the meat of all of this.
 We have established six tiers, starting with zero square feet of impervious areas, so between zero and 2,000 square feet.
 That monthly bill is $1.69. All of these are based on $1.35 per billing unit, and a billing unit is 1,000 square feet. So then moving on up to the second tier, $3.71. Third tier, $5.73. Okay, Chris, I'll have to give you some more time. How much more time do you think you need, Chris?
 We want to give him at least five minutes. This is too important. Seven, eight minutes. That would be great. Thank you. Let's give him eight minutes if that works. Eight minutes. Well, ten minutes. Let's do five or ten. Let's do ten then. All right. You got ten minutes. Okay. I think I can take that.
 So again, going down the tiers here, I think what's important to note here is the number of customers in each tier. So that first tier, 32% of our customers. I was regretting not bringing that.
 32% of our customers, so about 11,400 customers, would be billed at $1.69. The second tier is another 32%.
 at 371 and so on. So about 81% of our customers would be paying less than $6 per month under this scenario. Then as we look at the highest tier, anything over 8,000 square feet, and we have 3,000 customers in that situation,
 would pay at a custom rate, basically, at the $1.35 per billing unit, or $1.35 per thousand square feet. And their rate would be calculated, again, as a custom rate. Just a few examples here of what that looks like, and I think there's
 A lot of people were confused because they thought they had a 1500 square foot house and didn't understand why they were in tier two and not tier one, for instance. And the reason is that it's all impervious area. It includes patios, driveways, sidewalks, any of those kinds of things that created impervious area. And again, these are just examples of...
 What what a typical property in these various ranges would be. So if we talk about our credit program, we have a couple of different scenarios here. If we this this the first kind of list of of
 credits include retrofitting a property to meet GSP requirements and GSP as green stormwater practices. So that would be anything from rain gardens to
 you know, small detention ponds, anything like that that could help reduce the impact. Compliance with industrial stormwater permit, that's more for our very large users. They are, they are sometimes have their own industrial permit, pre-treatment permit.
 Shared parking is another situation that can help greatly reduce the amount of impervious area. If we can look at shared parking, that's a potential credit, an incentive for various businesses to reduce their impact.
 And then the educational component that we talked about a lot, so public or private schools that could include an educational program about water quality, there could be a credit program for that. The other kind of half of this is for, mostly for private properties, smaller properties, retrofitting their properties to
 meet some of the drainage criteria manual, our current drainage criteria manual standards for water quality, blood protection, and there are various ways that you could do that, but those are the four minimum standards that could be accomplished.
 As we put this all together and we go back again to some of these discussions several years ago, there would be no credit for existing conditions. So, whatever your condition exists at the time that the program is approved, there would need to be retrofitting or improvements to the existing condition in order to be eligible for the credit.
 I think that's a policy decision that could be a topic of conversation this evening and I'm certainly happy to discuss. I think I could win a debate with myself for both sides of that if I chose to because there are certainly valid points on either side for credit for existing conditions.
 So the chapter highlights, the chapter 52, what we're looking at tonight, the highlights of the chapter, basically establishing the Stormwater Management Fund, defining the fee structure, defining the extent and level of service, outlining the admin and appeals process for the program, and then describing the credit framework.
 There were some, our initial submittal into the council agenda was basically the same ordinance that the council passed the resolution of intent for. After working with KITT, there is, I think, a better ordinance than what we had before. It further defines the purpose
 We have better detail about the collection of the fee, establishes the billing date as August of 2025, so it sets the date certain.
 And then I think most importantly, and Kit may want to speak to this, what the importance of this is, it sets an additional appeals process guidelines and procedures. And I think that's an important change that really needs to be included here. So the request that's in front of you is to adopt the Chapter 52 as amended.
 If the council chooses to pass that, then we have about eight months of work to finalize our billing database, take all of the questions and concerns that we receive from folks, make sure that we have made those adjustments on those properties and extended that to other properties that may have similar questions, and really finalize and address those.
 and get our building database as accurate as possible. And we would then be ready to move forward with utility building and operations in August 2025. I think that's it. Yes. Okay. Happy to answer questions. All right. What questions have we got? Bob. On the credits that people are allowed, is rainwater catchment fit into one of those categories?
 It can, yes. There would need to be some parameters. I think if you
 if you think about a rain barrel it's 55 gallons that's not very much when it comes to storm water but rain gardens and larger facilities we would need to have some parameters like what if you had a 500 gallon or a thousand gallon tank right i think that yeah that's something that um you know we we don't have all of the details on where these uh you know what those requirements would be um
 But yes, if you're meeting essentially the, if you really want to get into the details, the water quality volume that's usually calculated based on a 1.2 inch storm. So if you have something that's sized large enough to accommodate that 1.2 inch storm, then it would be meeting that water quality requirement. Gotcha. And then another question is,
 how often will you like re-review the property? Say, you know, you do the initial review with the GIS and the aerial photography, and then, you know, and then I build a shed in a ADU or something.
 Are you going to go back yearly or every other year to reassess? Right. Well, so a lot of the new impervious area will be through the permitting process, so a new house or a garage would have a building permit. So we would, once that certificate of occupancy is ready to be issued, we would set up a process that that square footage would then be added to that sewer user.
 Anything that might be unpermitted or we don't know about could be captured in a, you know, when we fly our aerial photography, maybe not on a yearly basis, but on a fairly regular basis. So those would be the two ways that we would true up our system. And then I think we were, and Kit, correct me if I'm wrong, but like this is for people that have sewer service. If you're on septic, this does not apply, is that right?
 That's correct. Unfortunately, when the legislation was created by the state legislature to allow a stormwater utility, instead of writing it all out, they just said any place where it says sewer and the sewer utility now means stormwater too. And so part of the problem with that is that it only applied to sewer customers.
 I would hope that eventually the legislature will go back and actually do an entire stormwater chapter like they do for water and sewer, but this time there was one section and it just basically was substituting the words. So that was one of the strange outcomes of it. Okay. And then this will capture all commercial properties, Walmarts, but not the university or any other government entity like the county?
 will be excluded because we were not able to impose those fees on them that's correct any any higher form of government so that the county any federal properties any state properties including the U of A but schools would would be included in this like local public schools that's right private schools okay thank you
 Thank you, Mayor. Chris, I had a question about when you were talking about the easements that could be overlaid and stripped from the fee. Is there a process or has there been discussion about a similar procedure for a surface that may not be impervious like a deck or an elevated deck or structure like that? Yeah.
 Those are a little bit more challenging and are probably going to take a manual review of each of those. But I also want everybody to understand that these are not, if you're in the tiers one through six,
 a 200 square foot deck may not move you through a tier. So it's not super sensitive, you know, 100 square feet one direction or another. There certainly will be cases where that adjustment does need to be made.
 But we will do that. And they have an appeal process for that, too. Right. Which goes to Chris. Right. Right. That makes sense. And, you know, we've identified through this process and the comments that we've received that, and we recognize that the computer program is not going to be perfect. And so, anytime there's an error, that doesn't really fall into the appeal process, in my opinion. If there's an error that we find, we'll do it.
 whether we find it before we start building or we find it five years from now, then that would be corrected. Okay. And with the retrofitting, is the swimming pool considered retrofitting if it's put in afterwards? Well, retrofitting, so if you, if swimming pools are, the water surface area of the swimming pool would not be considered impervious. So yes, that would be something that would be, if somebody added a pool,
 we would add the the impervious area but the the water surface area would be excluded. Would that ever constitute a credit that could be added? Um I'd have to think about that. I'm not I'm not sure. I guess it's built on a patio or something that previously was impervious. Yeah have to be a pretty big swimming pool I think so. Thank you.
 Mine's a little bit similar to Councilmember Hertzberg. I was hoping you could walk us through, if somebody goes and looks and thinks that maybe they need to make an adjustment to what's been captured on their property, can you walk us through what that process looks like for trying to contact the city and kind of walk through that? Well, for now, we're not doing that.
 We have, on our website, there's the building tools there. If you see a concern or think there's an error, you can contact the engineering division, just engineering at Fayetteville-ar.gov, or give us a call. Alan Pugh, our stormwater engineer, is in the back. He's taking all of those, fielding all of those very well. So, and
 and we're documenting those if we do see an issue and that you know the the for instance of the the trail situation that's something that we've been talking with our consultant about going back and rerunning that and so yeah we'll we'll as all of these things come in um you know if the council approves uh this um and we're heading toward billing
 We'll clean up as many of these as we possibly can prior to hitting the button and sending out bills. But we'll have a mechanism that people can contact us and ask those questions. Thank you, Chris. And then on the credit programs,
 Are those going to start kind of immediately? Like, how will that work as well as far as I think about folks maybe reaching out to the engineering department to potentially fix their property as far as if there was an adjustment they think needs to be made? But how does that work? And I guess what's the workflow for if someone thinks they've got a credit that they want? Can you help me to understand what that process is? Well, yeah, there will be an application process. We need to...
 to work on that, I think, and get that set up administratively. Included in this program are some administrative staff, billing coordinator, and those sorts of staff members. So, we'll have those in place and we'll have all those contacts and mechanisms set up.
 And then my only other question was whenever we look like we're going to start to collect in August, will that be, I know that, and I guess, well, I guess I've got two questions, sorry. We had talked previously about this was going to give us the allowance to be able to go and touch that infrastructure for stormwater once every five years. Okay.
 Is that still the expectation? And then what would be the start date, I guess, once we started billing in August, that we'd start that work? Yeah, there will be a ramp-up process. A big part of this from the operations standpoint is, I believe it's five or six staff members that would be basically transportation division employees.
 that crew would be established. It obviously would take a little while to get that crew fully staffed.
 probably what we would do as the funds are coming in, we do have some large capital expenditures for equipment, dump trucks, excavators, those sorts of things. So we would look at making those purchases, getting our staff going. And that really could kind of be one of the very first things that we're able to get up and running within, probably by the end of the year, we could have that staff in place.
 And then is it still the expectation though that we'll hit something like once every five years would be the circuit? That's right, yeah. Yeah, we would be able to proactively inspect all of our storm drainage system and clean out the system. Whereas right now... Now it's incredibly exciting. Yeah. Yeah, right now it's a matter of somebody calls us and says my storm drain is just not functioning and we go and go, yes, you're right because it's completely filled with gravel. All right, thank you.
 Okay, who's next? Go ahead. Okay, Chris, I just want to first say, I know this has been a long haul. Thank you for all the hard work. I think having the GIS tool is great. We've got a few wrinkles to work out, but talk about transparency to our citizens. This is...
 their area that's being considered impervious. But I am a bit concerned right now that we still don't have sort of the trails or the, or from what I understand, or the feedback that I've gotten, some of the sidewalks excluded. And so I think we really need to get that fixed pretty quickly. And I'm actually kind of surprised that we,
 it's still in there because I would have thought that we would have another layer, you know, and a different attribute that would be able to exclude that out. So that's a long setup to ask you, when do you think that that,
 that tweaking, that update could be made so that we could give more confidence to our citizenry that we really are working hard on this issue. Sure. Yeah, Alan has been working with our consultant, so I'll let him speak to that as far as time frame, when they can rerun.
 So we do have some sidewalks currently shown that are in the right-of-way that aren't actually included in the calculations for that particular property. So I understand that that can be confusing, and we're working on that. I think that could be addressed relatively quickly. With regard to the 
 trails and other impervious areas that could be removed. I've had some preliminary discussions with our consultants about how we could do that. Unfortunately, I don't have a great answer for you tonight about how long that could take, but certainly we could find that out and send it out to the council. That would be great. I think it would be really helpful because I, you know, it's hard to pass this when you know that there's still some issues in there and it's going to
 however small it might be, it's going to affect somebody's pocketbook. And so I really want to be sensitive to that. But I do think we've come a really long way. My next question is...
 You talked about how that wouldn't be an appeal process issue, that it's a tweak. Let's just say that some still squeak by and we've still got to resolve some of these GIS issues and we've already started charging people. Are we prepared to give them refunds or credits? Have you thought about that? I have thought about that. My personal opinion, yes, that's what we should do.
 I don't know all of the ins and outs and legalities of that. It seems like that's the right thing to do, and that's what we should be doing. I'm sure that's what we will do. Unless it's illegal, that's what we will do. To be able to refund anything that we should not have charged. I just want to say I hope there's a process put in place by the time we start billing people, because I'm sure every system's got a little...
 a few little wiggles that we need to work out yeah and and i would even think that um you know we haven't haven't really expressed this to anybody about it but i think uh you know going forward we have this email system set up it's been pretty people have responded to it pretty well so we could send out reminder emails saying hey it's going to be two months from now three months from now whatever this is this is starting um
 please take your opportunity to check and make sure that you understand what what this is and and let us know if you have questions so we can um let the let the citizens help themselves as much as possible to be able to get their
 Billing as accurate as possible will continue to go through these and again, you know where we've identified one property owner has an issue If we recognize that that's projected to others Will have mechanisms in place to clean all of those up. Okay. Thank you that I'm really glad to hear that. Thank you Thank you
 Chris, I started getting phone calls and emails today from senior citizens worried about the potential costs that they're going to be facing and wondering if there's been any consideration for giving seniors some consideration for credits. And would that even be legal to
 carve them out. Not necessarily carve them out, but give them a credit. Well, I think again that the basic concept of this program is that your impervious area is creating the impact and every citizen is paying based on that impact. So,
 To me, that's not, I mean, I certainly understand that, the income issues, you know, for everybody, but that's not the concept that we have, and if we start carving out those special interests, I think we're starting to get outside the bounds of the basic concept of the program. Okay, and then secondly, and you and I have talked about this, and you're going to get an opportunity to,
 spin the plates both directions. Because I am, as I mentioned the other night, in a little bit of a unique situation, the fact that I own a 100-year-old property and I own a 20-year-old property. And this is not about the money because I fully appreciate what we're doing and know that there's a need. But I did actually get my first phone call about this today. I've got a 100-year-old property that has absolutely no stormwater mitigation.
 I can't do it. It's just, I'm landlocked. There's nothing I can do about it. My 20-year-old property, I have stormwater mitigation that the city required me to do and spent thousands of dollars to do it. But they're being looked at as exactly the same type property. And the call I got today was, you know, I did all this when the city told me to do it. And now they're saying, in essence, for this fee calculation, you didn't do anything.
 So help us get over that hump. So I can argue both sides. So I think it's pretty logical that if you buy a property that, just say you buy a subdivision house in a subdivision that was built within the last 10 years.
 That subdivision is meeting all of our current standards. So they have a detention bond, they have water quality facilities that are necessary to meet the requirements. So the impacts of those properties are less than some of the older properties. We also have, we
 In those areas, we have a lot more storm drainage system. We have a lot more easements. We have a much bigger system in the newer areas of town. So the operational cost of operating the system in the newer parts of town is quite a bit higher than in the older parts of town. So that's sort of the trade off.
 that the operational cost of serving the citizens that are in newer parts is higher than the operational cost. There is a higher impact, obviously, from somebody who doesn't have any storm drain detention or anything like that on their property or in their subdivision. So I get that too. I understand all of that. I think the bottom line,
 If we did say that anybody who's built in the last 10 years gets a 40% credit because they're meeting all of the requirements, or anybody who's built since about 1995 is when our first detention ordinance was in place, we'd get maybe a 20% credit because they're kind of doing half of what the current standards do. Then we would have to go back and look at what the base rate is because we're still
 we have an expectation level of service expectation and we have an amount of funding that's necessary to properly fund this program so if we gave a lot more credits we would have to go back and look at the base rate and increase that base rate and so the the folks who aren't um in the newer parts of town would end up paying a higher base rate and would end up paying more um and
 Do they have more impact? Well, maybe. But there is that equity issue as well. They don't have the same stormwater services and they're paying a higher rate. So I don't know if I adequately argued with myself there, but those are kind of the factors that I think about.
 Actually, Scott had asked the question because I had been, I had all, you know, I'm sure I got the same emails he did from Butterfield Trail in particular.
 And there's 416 residents or something like that that are not happy about the potential that they might be charged a little bit more, whatever. And I've gotten a few comments from the same things everybody else is saying about, well,
 sidewalk, the trail that's part of my property and it's not. Or I have a gravel driveway, why is that? It barely has any gravel on it anymore, why is that even considered? I did get a couple of calls from people who
 were not only seniors, but they were disabled veterans, and they're all asking for, why can't we get something, a discount, 50% discount or whatever, because we're living in this, Butterfield Trail or as a facility, or we're a disabled veteran. And I think you've already answered those questions, but that's just what we're hearing, or I'm hearing anyway, so thank you. Okay, anything else?
 All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and then those participating by Zoom can speak after that. Malcolm Cleveland, East Denver Drive.
 This is an absolutely needed program. There's no doubt in my mind because I made myself an expert on climate change and it's coming for us. But I have a problem with the way the fees are calculated. I think it ought to be calculated on the ratio of impervious surface to the total land surface.
 if the total land surface is, aside from the impervious surface, adaptable. For example, I have about 11,000 square feet of impermeable surface on my property, which is large. But my property is about 135,000 square feet.
 uh that's 3.1 acres in case you're wondering uh and that's about eight percent so the impermeable surface about eight percent of the uh total land area most of that land area is either closed canopy uh deciduous forest or uh grassland uh the uh so uh i would
 suggest that for example if we have a quarter somebody has a quarter acre and they've got 2,000 square feet of impermeable surface that works out to about 18% of the total area they so I think that it would be better to do it on a ratio
 And we consulted with the engineers, and they have all the data. They could do it in five minutes, calculate the ratio for everybody. I'm also a dendrochronologist, tree ring dater, and I know that the city has allowed 300 plus a year old trees to be bulldozed.
 And I think my wife may have something to say too. Okay. Thank you Who else would like to speak These are things that I thought of in listening to what was being said that I wrote down in date When is this fee going in now? We didn't meet with I?
 the engineer and I thought he'd go a day to about 10 years from now, I didn't hear that mentioned yet. I don't know exactly what's in this proposal that you're doing. That's what concerns me. Who has the final say on the credits? I don't think they've got their act all together. There are too many questions you're even asking under that. I don't think you're ready to come to make a decision on what
 You have written up at the moment on your resolution. That's my thing. I don't think the program currently, yeah, okay. I just said that. I'm just reading my notes. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Rebecca LaTourette, 15761 Mount and Road, Fayetteville. I think this is a necessary program. We desperately need it. We have a terrible runoff problem.
 And the impervious surface is a problem with that. I would like to put a plug in for, a credit for trees over 150 years old. I currently have six trees on my large piece of property with only one house on it. They're over 150 years old. I don't think very much of my water, it's down to the street.
 um it's not about the money because i do want to support this program and i don't mind paying my fair share but i'm not producing the amount of storm runoff that the five houses that were put in behind my mother's apartment building that are almost completely impervious lot are producing and i like the idea of a ratio
 ratio to impervious area calculation because that makes more sense and again I want to say I really support this because I think it's a good idea and we have to do it thank you who else I'm Kim Johnson and I have a property at 205 West Rock here at the corner of Rock and Church right close to the square
 and my husband and I also have a property in South Fayetteville. The property at 205 is very much like Rebecca's, an old historic house, and so some, I guess, consideration needs to be
 discussed about what's pervious and what is impervious. My driveways have been in place for 109 years. The house has been there 109 years.
 So I really would like for this to go back to more of a broad community discussion about this. I agree with Rebecca and some of the other people that we really need to address the issue of water runoff, but we also need to also have that community discussion about how we can mitigate water runoff and
 global warming in this town, do we capture water? Do we get a credit for that? Do we capture water to water our gardens and some of the other things? I mean, my husband and I both have great gardens and we love them. I would love to capture rainwater and do that. Do we get a credit for that? I don't think that
 What happened last week with the postcard, that was the first I had heard about this.
 Five, six of my neighbors, only three of them remembered getting the postcard. So I really, I think this is too early to take this to a vote. I think we need to talk longer about this. I'm sorry to say that. I know that the first PDF came out in May from what I saw on the website.
 But I think, council, I respectfully request some sort of further discussion on this. Thank you. Thank you. Who else much addresses? Hello, my name is Larry Long. I live at 1577 North Star Drive. And I, a couple of apologies. One, I'm coming a little late to this. I just realized what was happening.
 And two, I'm an engineer, a whole engineering professor. I think like one. We bought our place in 1991, when you could almost see Goshen from there. It wasn't much between there.
 But when I first heard about that, I said, this is great. My son's property hasn't been touched since Truman was president over a piece of property just off Garland. It's perfectly flat and has standing water in it. Oftentimes, all you have to do is redo the drainage. It'll work just fine. Then I found out when I went to the site, I'm going to have to work four hours every month, every year to pay my fair share.
 That means I'm going to need to earn about $60 a month, probably at minimum wage. Nobody's going to pay someone as old as me anything other than minimum wage. That's not what was intended here. This should have been a situation where you're dinging everybody a few bucks for the meters, water meter, sewer, and we all pay a little bit and we make it. You don't want to have someone like me pay for that. Now I want to go on for a little bit here.
 I looked at how they calculated the fee and my first reaction was, whoa, it's all about impervious area. No mention of pervious or permeable area, as had been mentioned just before me. From the ordinance that deals only with impervious areas, we could have just as well said properties only.
 with a greater percentage of pervious area would have a lower fee than properties with smaller percentage of pervious area due to the reduced impact on the system, right? Which is fair. Completely changes the ball game altogether. And it may be more correct. That's probably better, but it's still not fair. Isn't the idea of spreading the fee thinly across the population what we're really trying to achieve? My house is star drive,
 To walk around, it's a half a mile. I have three parcels on 10 acres and...
 and the eight acre one is the one that I'd be built on. Right now I have 402,000 square foot of land and I have 33,000 square foot impervious. 93% of my property takes 65 acres of drainage into my pond which mitigates a real problem. I get all from Lovers Lane coming down on my property, mitigate that flow. Half of Gatti Acres comes onto my property across Star Drive.
 and it's permeable. Time. Time. Just give me a minute. Okay. Sorry, I was just getting to the point. Thank you very much. What I would suggest would be a far fairer approach to how the fee is calculated. As Justice was indicated earlier, it should be a percentage of pervious and impervious. In my case, I have 93% permeable property.
 All right, and the 33,000 square feet is just, it's really kind of a drop in the bucket compared to what comes across my property, and it's indeed mitigated for drainage. Perhaps we could have a 90 to 100% would be one billing unit, 80 to 90% two billing units, and so forth on down the line with a maximum, I would hope, of no more than six bucks a month.
 And I think we could probably, I did a little estimation, that we could probably get our $3 million out of that. And I don't think that people are going to be coming back to you and arguing pervious and impervious. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? I spent the first part of the whole session jotting down a bunch of notes here that I was going to talk about. These folks have covered it pretty darn well. I'm going to read them anyway as quick as I can.
 Some of this may not be for not yet. Doug Rundle, Ward 1, Cherry Hills Drive. First of all, I'll say that this proposal is a tax. It's not a fee. This is a tax, pure and simple.
 When I flush the toilet, take a shower, that's a usage fee for the water and sewage I'm using. When the trash guy comes and does the recycling and trash, that's a service fee. I'm glad to pay it. But this is no more. I don't make it rain. You don't make it rain. This is a tax. So I have this other stuff here may not be as important. But, you know, I'm glad the streets drain when it rains. That's part of the street infrastructure. This is all about infrastructure.
 And I'm not the only person, you're not the only people sitting in residence that benefit from our street drainage working correctly. So everybody that drives in from Elkins, Greenland, West Fork, Farmington, Prairie Grove, you name it, Springdale, to work, shop, recreate, is benefiting from good street drainage. Okay, they can get to work because the streets aren't flooded. So, but yet...
 Just the homeowners based on an overly simplistic fee basis, which they've already talked about, are going to bear the brunt of this. And the largest, single largest hard hard surface footprint in this city is the University of Arkansas. They pay nothing. That you know what? Maybe you can work out a deal there.
 But so, you know, not just say the current fee proposal on impervious area, it's flawed. It's a flawed idea. I agree they have an acceptable method for calculating a property's hard surface.
 but there's been no real attempt to calculate the runoff from a property and i'm guessing that's the real factor involved is the runoff from the property so just like these folks have said you know you could have a six you know i'm not trying to defend the wealthy but you could have a 6 000 square foot home with pool and all that but if it's set back on three or four acres from the road they don't have any runoff back into the road all right which where your runoff is coming
 as you probably know, are from these dense places, dense popular properties like apartment complex, zero hot, zero lot line housing, 12 houses to an acre subdivisions, and so on. So in closing, it's a tax, it's not a fee, and it's attacking only a portion of the users of the infrastructure, which is not fair or equitable. So what I'm, what I, what they're proposing
 uh you know doesn't attempt to estimate the quantity of runoff from a property it's overly simplistic and it misses the target which is runoff into your systems and if this is if this is a infrastructure time time i'm just saying are there other i got it money we got it we got it thank you time now who else would like to address this
 My name is Lynn Damrick and I live on West Orr Drive. And yeah, we have a problem. And I actually have been cleaning the ditch because the city hasn't. They did it the other day and I thought, wow, they came out. And, but, you know, I'm not totally blaming them because I don't know when this was created.
 But Berry Street runs parallel with Ora Drive, and a torrent of water comes from Berry Street in between two people's homes. One of the homes floods frequently, and then it makes a turn and goes down the street.
 The people won't even pick up a branch. You know, I mean, a lot of that could just be eliminated, you know. But that's a local problem on that street. So I don't know all of the ins and outs of that, where that water comes from that comes from Berry Street. Well, there's another, you know, place that feeds into that.
 But to root water between two homes is just wrong. And I also wonder, when is Fayetteville going to quit building? I mean, I know a lot of people profit off of it, but it's really changing, and I can see it in front of my eyes. And the animals are coming down from all the stuff that they're building homes
 Anyway, it's sad to me. It feels really changing, and I miss how it used to be. So that's all I have to say. Thank you. Chris Sargent, I have a business on Martin Luther King Boulevard. I have one question about it is, I'm on a state highway, that's Highway 62.
 And how would this, I've called about problems before and the city can't do anything because it belongs to the state. So how would this work? Would any of this funding be able to fix some of the problems with the state highway? Or I guess I'd need to know more about that. That's my question. Okay. Does anybody got an answer? The man? I've been 25 years and nobody's fixed any drains yet.
 Yeah, so within the state highway right of way, we typically see that as RDoT's responsibility. We do have the ability through a permitting process if we do see a need, something that could improve drainage on a citizen's property, we do have a mechanism to, through a permit, work within the state right of way.
 um i just have i don't know the details of the of the concern but it is certainly something we could look at okay you've got about a minute and 40 seconds i just have a large piece of property and i'm probably not going to get any benefit of flood fixing unless the state does it so that's my comment okay thank you who else would like to address us
 I'm Cynthia Alexander. I live on 410. Would you pull the mic down? Yeah, there you go. And I'm a terrible speaker, so bear with me. Cynthia Alexander, 410 South College Avenue. My problem is with the imperviousness. If anyone's familiar with South College, below Nelson Hackett, it's a big hill. We had an out-of-state developer who bought an acre.
 and divided that up into, well there were two very small, probably less, maybe 800 square foot homes with a lot of pervious area around it. Those homes were knocked down. Now there's four plots that are gonna have about 3,000 square foot homes on each one with driveways.
 and that's going down the hill on south college and at the bottom there'll be that fourth one near uh spout spring creek it was just given a variance to build inside the streamside protection zone so all that impervious land that water is just going to go down into the creek it's already been upgraded from an a to an ae flood zone
 My next door neighbor is in the flood zone. Anyway, my question is, the developers that keep adding to all this impervious area, do they pay some kind of fee? Because you know, South College, our infrastructure is not good. We have water leaks all the time. You know, a couple on South Street within the last year. So my question is, what burden?
 do these developers carry? Even the lofts, you know, before those were post-World War II little apartments with lots of pervious area in between. Now it's going to be this big block of impervious. And the water, where's it going to go? It's going to go down to Spout Spring. And that's already a huge flood zone. If you look at the city GIS,
 for the hundred year flood and just the flood plain, that has grown tremendously. One of my neighbors is actually having to pay $300 a month more in his mortgage because he's now in the flood plain. So that's my question. What do developers, they need to help out with this because they're adding to the problem. So that's my question.
 i'm glad to pay my part but you know they're causing a big problem good all right who else good evening mayor and council kyle smith 28 on one dub drive i just want to speak in defense of the the calculation model and give a short case study about why a ratio model would be a real problem for an equitable system for example there are some small condos down on oakland
 They're, according to the map here, they're about 500 to 600 square feet of impervious surface and that's 100% of their parcel. And so it wouldn't be equitable to charge 100% basis rate for that small parcel as it would be for, say, a Walmart parking lot, which is also paid 100% for several acres. The flip side of that is...
 they fit seven or eight residents in the space of one of those 6,000 square foot homes that we heard about earlier. And to tell me that the density is what's causing the problem on a per capita basis, if we're talking about how much these residents share is as a person, that just doesn't calculate. I hope you will approve this. It's something that's been in the works for a long time and it's very well thought out.
 consultants the committees have done a great job thank you thank you who else likes addresses on this there's no one on them with their hand raised okay so what discussion would like to have well I'll go ahead and go first mr. mayor thank you
 We did look at the simplest model of all would simply be a flat rate, which is what the city of Hot Springs did with the first stormwater utility in the state of Arkansas. And so that is one model that's perfectly simple. There's no calculation. You have a sewer bill. You pay a flat rate. I believe what Fayetteville is attempting to do, however, is to say we could, in fact, be more equitable,
 I happen to have a little more than average impervious area. So I'm going to be paying a little bit more so that someone with less than average impervious area doesn't subsidize me and they simply pay their fair share. So while it's not perfect, I believe this really is an attempt to be fair to the majority of people.
 I think some of the examples that we heard tonight are terrific examples of single case studies. Gee, if you have a 30,000 square foot warehouse building and you're on 10 acres, I mean, you need an appointment with Mr. Brown to be able to say, let me demonstrate that the water is not leaving my property.
 I need to be able to negotiate a credit and receive a fair bill for that. I think that's perfectly reasonable for that. But I also think that that's also the exception to the rule. So, you know, this is kind of in that category of I don't have kids in the school district.
 You get one chance to educate kids, Mrs. Whitaker insists we do our fair share and do our part because that's how we deal as a society and a community with the need to educate children.
 My property probably is not going to flood. I've got Mount Sequoia water that comes down onto it. I can kind of manage that. But just because my property isn't in a flood zone, I too feel that I need to do my fair share because there is water that can leave my property downhill on a sloped lot.
 And eventually it's going to enter some form of a catch basin, the storm drain system, and it's going to need to be managed as it travels south through Fayetteville. While we say that there are some things that still need to be refined, if I'm the mayor, if I'm the city staff, there's no sense in continuing to work on this if it's not going to pass. I mean, why would we waste the staff time on doing that? So I feel like,
 The only way to give the clear signal besides six months ago passing a resolution of intent is to adopt this and to say it doesn't go into effect until August
 we have the ability for staff to then say, let's start dealing with those applications where people appeal. My situation is different and unique. I'm eligible for a credit. Or I'm eligible for some form of, I have time to implement a stormwater management system on my property.
 So I think that while imperfect and there is no perfect stormwater management utility in the United States, and there's over, you know, there's thousands of them in the United States, that this really is the direction that we're going to need to go. The only other choice is to say, well, let's stop funding the arts. Let's stop funding roads. Let's stop funding some other infrastructure to shift that money to this use.
 And I don't see that as viable because that is a one-time reallocation of funding versus storm drains have to be cleaned periodically. It doesn't matter that they're pristine today. You have to come back and manage them over and over and over. And so I do think it's fair to me, even though I looked at the numbers and thought, oh, wow, I didn't know I had that much impervious area.
 It causes me to say, well, shut up, we decree. You need to do your fair share. Someone's going to pay less than you because they're having less impact. And so I think this is a little better thought out than we think it is. Yes, there's a few things to resolve, but I don't think we can invest the staff time to do that if we're not going to pass this. Thank you. What else? Scott. Thank you, Mark. All right.
 Agree with most everything councilmember Whitaker said I Struggle I do think we're there's no question. We're going to pass this because I think The citizens understand we need this so I think it's it's something that We can sell to the community that this is what we need to do and they will sign off on it, but I
 I think it has to be something if we're going to do that, that we are fully transparent on what we're doing. And I don't think that we've heard some folks speak about the fact that they had neighbors that didn't get notified of what's going on. We had some folks say that they just found out about it, you know, yesterday or whatever. I don't think we can, in my opinion, I don't think it's fair to the community to pass something that,
 that we know we've got a lot of little intricacies we've got to work out. And there's a lot of people that don't know what we're doing, what we're talking about doing. So if we're not going to put it
 You know, you have the debate if it's a tax or if it's a fee. If we're not going to put it to public vote, I think we owe the community to make sure that we know that, you know, for the most part, we can't guarantee 100 percent coverage, but we've got to do our part to make sure that we get the word out that this is what we're doing, this is why we're doing it. And I think the community will say we understand.
 okay bob yeah um i agree with uh a lot of what both my previous city council members fellow council members said uh and and to scott's point i do think that um you know when mr ryburn here writes his article and and pebble flyer puts out their article about this
 You know, I'm actually surprised how thin the room is tonight because I've heard a lot about this from friends, from family. It seems to be already a growing topic of discussion. So I think to Scott's point, I would like to leave this.
 on the first reading because we are especially as this gets out in the news stories and stuff we are going to hear more of these concerns i i agree that when i look at it and when i think about it to me this is i i think i i texted a constituent earlier like do i think this is a perfect plan no but i when i when i look at it and i've studied it
 It seems to be probably one of our best options and our fairest options and our most equitable options. And so to that end, yeah, this is going to pass. It almost needs to. But we do need to hear from our constituents and give them that ability. I haven't seen the email. I'm sure I've got it. I get 100 emails a day in that account I use. So it's in there somewhere. But...
 You know, we need to let the word get out, let people learn about it and understand why and what we're doing. And, you know, in the end, I'll be supporting this, but I would like us to leave it on the first reading so that the constituents can learn about it. Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. We have been working on this for a long time, but I know a lot of this, people are busy, they don't pay attention, or we don't get the word out as effectively as we need to. I had that conversation with the city staff about four years ago about a proportionality.
 It turns out there's very, very few cities that will do a proportional impervious to pervious. I don't know why, but there's not very many of them. And so I would say to you all that since we're going to have this appeal process set up, I think you'll be able to demonstrate that you're not having runoff from your property because your impervious area is so small.
 So that is what I'm hoping that even though in theory, I like your plan better, the ratio, but it's not used very often. And this plan, this structure, this methodology is a lot easier to implement. So I'm hoping we'll have enough robust conversation for that. The second thing is, you know, we're right at the holidays and,
 I think it's hard for people to focus on anything around here. So I would like to leave it on this reading. And maybe we have many more conversations about this, because I think it's really important that we are being transparent. We are having the full discussion, even though we've had a lot of internal discussion. But we need a broader conversation. Thanks.
 Yes, Bob. Yeah, I just want to bring up another point kind of to the public because I think we understand this a bit, but it's not just the impervious services on our own property or our own property at all. I mean, we have streets and roads and sidewalks and trails. We all use those. We all use those impervious surfaces. Those impervious surfaces create the storm, help add to that stormwater problem we have. And this isn't just about...
 This goes into the water quality of the water that's emptying into our streams that go into our lake where we get our drinking water. And so when you have those heavy rain events, when you have these flood events, and we're putting all that oil and chemicals and plastics and everything getting rushed into the streams, getting rushed down into our lakes where we get our drinking water. I mean, this is a serious issue that we have to address this.
 and we don't have a lot of tools at our disposal to fund these things. We don't have giant empty pocketbook, you know, like we don't have just a bucket full of cash laying around. And each of us needs to do our part. And when I look at these fees, it's like, yeah, I mean, it's an extra fee, but it's, I don't think it's exorbitant by any means. Again, I think it's fair. And when you look at
 Just our community as a whole and how we need to work together to solve these problems for the benefit of all of us and and how Creating these funds is going to help get those ditches dug out. It's going to help find Detention ponds it's going to help find new stormwater catchment and storage you know the benefit is going to be great and and
 But again, I just wanted to add that to the discussion so people can consider those things when this isn't just about your property. It's about our whole city. Thank you. Mayor, could I make a comment? Sure. As Chris said, he and Chief of Staff Susan Norton and Stormwater Engineer Alan Pugh and I have worked on a project
 amendment that we think makes this Code a lot more a lot better. It makes it protects the city, but it also protects the individual customers because they can come up and and appeal if they think it's a tax rather than a fee if they're not getting enough services from what They're reasonably having to pay However, I don't want your action on that tonight. It's after 10. Well not quite. It's exactly 10 and
 So I don't want you to even look at the or I don't want you to make an amendment at this point for that, because I'd like to discuss it with you all at the agenda session when we're a lot fresher and we don't have the time constraints because we have other items coming up. So I just wanted to say that, that I still think that the amendments that we're going to suggest are good.
 And but I don't want to get into a long discussion tonight about why they're good. And we can do that at the agenda session. And that's the next meeting. Yeah.
 I just want to add to that that the staff is committed to whatever meetings that the council would like to have whether that be another stormwater committee or a meeting of the entire council ordinance committee y'all just let us know we can put together workshops talk about some of these scenarios talk about credit you know what are what our drainage criteria manual has in terms of water quality
 features and what those credits could be so we're committed to spending the time with you all to help you fully understand this program and so just please let us know if you if you'd like to to meet individually as a group whatever you'd like okay ma'am not unless somebody brings you up but I'll bring you up
 My question is based upon what you said. And you're talking about not getting the word out. That's what I want to ask. Can you make sure that you get this word out? I was shocked tonight when he said that the building was going to start in August. The last I heard was December. I thought we had time to work on this. Now you've moved it up to August. So you are right. We need to get this out. The newspaper is one source. That's how I found out about it in May.
 So we need to get it out and make sure that we miss whatever you're trying to talk about Get that out as as soon as possible that way we can speed it up. Okay All right. Yes quick question just procedural if we leave it on the first reading it's going to come back in two weeks, right? Oh, yeah. Yeah, so is that gonna be enough time to really be able to get anything accomplished with the holidays? Coming up. Would it not be better to table it to a certain date and
 Or is that going to be problematic with the end of the year coming up? Well, the reason I think it's better to have it in two weeks, you don't even have to pass it that night, but the, it was going to take a year for them to try to get everything together for their, their credit system that they haven't all worked out. But, um,
 And I can explain this more at the agenda session about why August is a good time. And it's not a particular date in August because when, it's when you get your sewer bill, your water sewer bill, because we send that out in like four big clumps. So people, not everybody gets the same bill on the same day. So that's why I chose August so that it would be actually when people would first be receiving their bill.
 um and still eight months but we we can't delay delay before it finally gets approved because they do have other stuff once you approve it they'll have other stuff they have to do to finish up uh all the credit situation and the rest of the stuff and look at the problems that we've heard about impervious surface and stuff so i would not suggest delaying it a long time
 uh if you're not comfortable in two weeks well then you're not comfortable and you you shouldn't be looking at it to pass it if you're not comfortable with it sir who was first yeah um i i an issue about uh you know the issue about tabling i i think we should just leave it on the first reading so that in two weeks as the public's learning about this we could go through we can get the amendments added
 then there'll be a more robust and more informed discussion. And then if we need to table it, we can table it at that point. I was just asking for some- Oh yeah, I was just bringing up my- You know, you can let this sit for six weeks. I mean, what I'm saying is you got this reading and then two weeks you got another reading and then you can let it go another two weeks, which will take it past the first year.
 if you want to do that you don't have to pass it in two weeks oh i know that i mean i'm just i was just bringing up why i wouldn't want to table it tonight okay sir thanks mayor um so
 So I appreciate the feedback in regard to the community members who, you know, have expressed a desire to feel like there's additional public comment and the ability to maybe engage with this more. I wonder about as a middle ground, being able to kind of knowing that.
 We do have a timeline as far as we do have residents too who have been experiencing flooding in their properties or had concerns and they really have been looking for this to go forward. And so I hear disproportionately some folks maybe don't feel like they had been aware of this. And so I appreciate you bringing that to our awareness.
 But I wonder, we did the permit, right, when we did the permit ready building, I always mess that up. We did, that was a lot more fun with all the 3D models down in the lobby. But I wonder, too, before our city council sessions, if there might be the ability to be able to offer that down in the lobby, down, that we could have staff there with maybe
 some of those neat screenshots that you have that show the different examples of those properties and be able to talk to those unique circumstances. And if we get an alert to say that that would be available, maybe that would help to get the word out a little bit more plus the coverage in the paper, you know, plus here at council. Well, I take it we're going to leave it on the first reading anyway. So, okay. Well, let's move along to the next item.
 Let's go to number three. An ordinance to amend 111.30 Retail to authorize Sunday liquor sales of alcoholic beverages. That's a thought. For off-premises consumption from 10 a.m. until midnight and to enact an emergency clause.
 Whereas a citizen's petition presented the question to Fayetteville electors whether or not to allow Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption from 10 a.m. until midnight, and whereas a majority of Fayetteville voters agreed to authorize such sales of alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption from 10 a.m. until midnight on Sundays, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends Section 111.30, Subsection A2 and B2, Hours of Operation, by repealing these subsections in their entirety and enacting the replacement subsections A2 and B2 as follows. Subsection 2, Hours of Operation.
 It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell any controlled beverages for off-premises consumption before the hour of 7 a.m. or after the hour of 11 p.m. on Monday through Thursday, before 7 a.m. or after the hour of midnight on Friday and Saturday, and before 10 a.m. or after midnight on Sunday and at any hour on Christmas Day,
 or during any 24-hour period designated an emergency by the mayor or the city council.
 Section 2 Emergency Clause that the City Council of the City of Favalarks I hereby determines that this ordinance should and will become effective on December 6, 2024 to obey the will of the voters on November 5, 2024 to allow Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption and to protect the peace and welfare of our citizens and businesses.
 I brought this forward because it is basically our legal duty to comply with what our citizens voted for. And in order to do that, we had to amend our own alcoholic beverages chapter, which originally prohibited any sales on Sunday.
 So that's what I have done in this. It's actually two subsections, both A and B. It's the same subsection underneath those, hours of operations number two. And so that's why I presented this to you. And if you ask me when they can start selling alcoholic beverages, which seems to be a big question,
 I can tell you that from the city's point of view, they'll be able to do it after December 6th if you pass the emergency clause. However, I do not speak for the Alcohol Beverage Commission. And when we asked the Alcohol Beverage Commission lawyer about when it would be effective, he couldn't tell us. So I will leave that to the communications of our people that want to sell alcoholic beverages.
 should communicate with the Alcoholic Beverage Commission and see when they say it's okay for the state. It'll be okay for the city on the 6th. That's right. I respect that legal opinion. All right, go ahead, Bob. A couple questions. The hours again on Sunday were going to be 10 a.m.? The petition said 10 a.m. until midnight. Until midnight on Sunday? Right. Oh.
 That's what the petition said. So we're following exactly what the petition that the citizens vote first filed and then how the citizens voted. Those were the hours in the petition. And then Christmas is the one holiday where... That's currently in our code. Everything else is the same. All the other dates and times were what were already in the code.
 okay and do we have to amend to add the emergency clause or do we just no i i think that what i it's it's it's a replacement sex of subsections a2 and b2 as follows and it's that subsection two it's the same thing on both of them okay thank you do we have any questions after public comment because of my last name i would ask for the privilege of making the motion okay
 All right, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber?
 no I'll bring it back to the council this is an ordinance I would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading that's like most in second to go to the second reading Jackson would you please call the roll dr. Jones yes more yes we dicker yes Berna yes lunch yes Kirk yes Hertzberg yes
 Stafford. Yes. And in order to amend section 111.30, Retail, to authorize Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption from 10 a.m. until midnight and to enact an emergency clause. I would move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Motion second to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Dr. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker.
 Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In your order to amend section 111.30 retail to authorize Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption from 10 a.m. until midnight and to enact an emergency clause. Any final comments other than I think we're cutting into Springdale's up.
 A little bit of Springdale's money here. All right. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Dr. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. And we need a separate vote to enact the emergency clause. And I would move that we pass this ordinance as an emergency clause. Second.
 have motion to second to pass the emergency clause not to be confused with the same that's music please call it up sorry dr jones yes or yes wedeker yes verna yes punch yes turk yes herzberg yes stafford yes thank you very much all right let's go to number four do y'all want another break or anything y'all look
 Everybody good? Let's go. All right, number four, an ordinance to amend Ordinance 6710 passed on November 21, 2023, to extend the sunset cost effective date to July 1, 2025, and 7 p.m., and to declare an emergency.
 Whereas the sunset clause in ordinance 6427, which was passed on April 20th, 2021, provided that the ordinance quote and all amendments to the code sections ordained or enacted by this ordinance shall automatically sunset, be repealed, terminated and become void 20 months after the passage and approval of this ordinance. Unless prior to that date, the city council amends this ordinance to repeal the sunset
 with uh repeal and termination section and whereas ordinance 6625 which was passed on december 6 2022 amended ordinance 6427 so that the ordinance quote and all amendments to the code sections ordained or enacted by ordinance 6427 shall automatically sunset be repealed and become void on december 31st of 2023
 unless prior to that date the City Council amends this ordinance to repeal or further amend this sunset repeal and termination section.
 And whereas Ordinance 6710, passed on November 21, 2023, amended the sunset provision of Ordinance 6625, which provided that all amendments to the code section ordained or enacted by Ordinance 6427 shall automatically sunset, be repealed, and become void on December 31, 2024, unless prior to that date the City Council amends this ordinance to repeal or further amend the sunset, repeal, and termination section.
 And whereas the Ordinance Review Committee recommends extending the sunset date to allow for consideration of amendments to the City's short-term rental regulations and to allow the continued operation of short-term rentals until July 1, 2025 at 7 p.m. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determined that Ordinance 6427, the Sunset Clause, Ordinance 6625, extending the Sunset Clause, and Ordinance 6710, extending the Sunset Clause, be amended so that Ordinance 6427 and all amendments to the Code Section ordained or enacted by Ordinance 6427
 Shall automatically sunset be repealed become void on July 1st, 2025 at 7 p.m. unless prior to that time and date the City Council amends this ordinance to repeal or further amend this sunset repeal and termination section.
 Section 2 that the City Council, the City of Pueblo, Arkansas hereby determines that this ordinance shall become effective without delay because allowing the city's short-term rental regulation to expire will likely lead to unregulated and illegal operation of the short-term rentals not subject to the city's life safety standards and insurance requirements
 such that an extension of the sunset clause is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists, such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Okay. Paul?
 Thank you, Mayor. As you know, we've been working on short-term rules for quite a while in the Ordinance Review Committee and we still have a couple things that we would like to work on. We did want to pause for a few months while the state legislature works out some details within the state law, so we didn't want to waste any time or make any adjustments that would go against that. And so we wanted to allow a couple extra months after the legislative session ends.
 um to enact the changes that we need to make and so we would like to recommend um july 1st as the date to extend the sunset clause so that we can bring it back as soon as possible with enough of enough time to create those changes thank you okay any questions from the council all right six public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member
 stay on topic excuse your name and address those present chamber be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this on this topic in the chamber no one has your hand raised on zoom okay this is an ordinance what actually the council like to take there move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second the motion saying go to second read here was please call right dr. Jones yes or
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second second most insane you go third and finally here which please call dr. Jones yes more yes weaker yes Verna yes butch yes her yes
 Hertzberg yes Stafford yes in orange the man ordinance 6710 passed on November 21st 2023 to extend the sunset clause effective date to July 1st 2025 at 7 pm and to declare an emergency any final comments from council care which please call the road Dr Jones yes more no yes yes yes
 yes Ertzberg yes Stafford yes mayor I move we approve the emergency clause yeah you did the emergency clause second yeah yeah got a motion and a second to pass any discussion final comments Dr. Jones yes Moore no Whitaker yes Berna
 yes punch yes third yes herzberg yes stackard yes okay skill number five an ordinance to amend 118.01 e1 and 2 of the federal code to simplify and clarify the definitions of short-term rental type 1 and short-term rental type 2 kits
 Whereas the Ordinance Review Committee has unanimously forwarded the simplified and clarified definitions of short-term rental type 1 and short-term rental type 2 for the City Council consideration. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1.
 at the city council city of fable arcs are here by men section 118.01 e1 and two of the fable code by repeating them in their entire teams and enacting replacement section 118.01 e1 and 2 as follows section 118.01 e1 short-term rental type one
 A short-term rental is where the owner or long-term resident occupies the principal dwelling or the accessory dwelling unit as their primary full-time residence for at least nine months of each calendar year and rents the remaining portion of their residence or their accessory dwelling unit as a short-term rental.
 An applicant for a type 1 short-term rental shall provide a copy of the property's homestead tax credit, long-term lease agreement, or other comparable evidence of long-term residency to the City to approve the long-term residency requirement. The long-term occupant of the property is responsible for the management and control of the occupants in the short-term rental type 1 to ensure that no adverse effects or problems are inflicted upon the residential neighbors.
 and 118.01.E.2, short-term rental type 2. If a desired short-term rental does not qualify as a short-term rental type 1, a property owner may seek to be approved as a short-term rental type 2.
 A new short-term rental type 2 may be permitted in residential zoning districts pursuant to the requirements of section 163.18 and in non-residential and mixed-use zoning districts pursuant to section 164.26. All short-term rentals type 2 must also comply with the requirements of section 11801 subsection E. Okay.
 Thank you. One of the changes that we could make right now, we wanted to bring forward, so that was simplifying these definitions and clarifying some confusion. Long story short, the type 1 short-term rental was clarified and then everything that doesn't fit within the type 1 is going to be automatically classified as the type 2. And then we did remove some of the vague language such as intent due to the difficulty proving
 and that's all that we have thank you okay any questions from the council or just a comment um kit thank you for sending that information out a couple of days ago about the old language for type one and type twos i do think this is a major improvement i think it simplifies it and um i thank you to the ordinance review board for uh for drafting this anything else okay well let's take some public comment
 everybody gets uh one turn to speak you have three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating with zoom will speak after that is there anyone in the chamber would like to speak to us on this particular topic
 you have anybody on zoom no sir all right i'm going to bring it back to the council mayor i'd make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second we'll have a motion to second to go to the second reading here uh just care would you please call the road dr jones yes moore yes yes vernon yes yes kirk yes herdsburg yes stafford yes
 And orders amend section 118.01 e 1 and 2 of the fable code to simplify and clarify the definitions of short-term rental type 1 and short-term rental type 2 All right make a motion spin rules go third and final read second have motion saying go third and finally Please call the roll. Dr. Jones. Yes, I
 moore yes leaker yes verna yes bunch yes turf yes earthsburg yes stafford yes head to orange the men section 11801 subsection e 1 and 2 are the favorable code to simplify and clarify the definitions of short-term rental type 1 and short-term rental type 2. any final comments
 coverage please call the room dr jones yes more yes weaker yes erna yes yes yes yes yes all right let's go number six
 an ordinance to approve vacation 24-25 property located at 639 west martin luther king jr boulevard ward 1 to vacate 0.08 acres of utility easement kit whereas the city council has the authority under aca 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and
 In which the City Council has determined the following scribe portion of utility easement is not required for corporate purposes now Therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 That the City Council the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of utility easement as described in exhibit B attached to the planning department's memo
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as a given aid to the planning department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner developer's expense. And number two, this vacation will take effect after the building served by the existing fire hydrant has been demolished.
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. The property on which this request is being made is in South Central Fayetteville, just south of Martin Luther King Boulevard between Leroy Pond Avenue to the east and Hill Avenue to the west. The overall property is the location of the University of Arkansas' Art and Design Campus, which includes several existing new and under-construction buildings.
 What is specifically being requested at the council tonight is to vacate about 0.0 acres of water and sewer easement that currently serves the property. But even more specifically, that has a water line within it that is associated with a hydrant that was originally put in to serve 639 West MLK.
 That is the only issue that staff has identified with the request. Accordingly, our recommendation for approval is conditioned on that building needing to be demolished prior to that water line or that easement being vacated and finalized. Otherwise, the only other condition is the standard one that any damage or relocation of existing facilities will come at the applicant's expense. And that's all I have, Mayor. I'm happy to take any questions. And Chase Heinrichs is online as the applicant for this item.
 okay with the applicant like speak for the council um chase hendrix with dci i think mr kerr hit it pretty well just wanted to let you know that i'm here if you have any additional questions that i'd be happy to answer okay what questions does the council have on this oh all right well let's take some public comment sure we're raring to go all right
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this and send to council? No.
 all right Susan no one's on zoom me okay I'll bring it back to the council move with these suspend the roles and go to the second reading motion second go to second read here which please call row dr. James yes
 yes weaker yes Arna yes yes yes yes yes yes and orange approved the AC 24-25 a property located at 639 West Martin Luther King jr. Boulevard in Ward 1 to vacate point zero eight acres of a utility easement maybe that we suspend the roles and go to the third reading
 Second. We have a motion to second. We'll go to the third and final word. Please call the roll. Dr. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In your order to approve the AC-24-25, a property located at 639 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard in Ward 1 to vacate a .08 acres of utility easement.
 any final comments from council care which please call her up dr jones yes more yes yes yes yes herzberg yes stafford yes all right let's go to number seven an ordinance to approve a planned zoning district entitled pzd 2024-007 for approximately 3.85 acres located at
 8049 West Weddington Drive and Ward 4. KEN METCALF, BEARD ORDINANCE Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves PZD 2024-07 as described in Exhibits A and B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, which allows the development of 3.85 acres of a planned zoning district to change the use of the existing single-family home to a commercial office.
 Section 2 that the official zoning map the city of Fayetteville is hereby amended reflect zoning change provided in section 1 Okay, John
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to West Fayetteville. We're just immediately south of Martin Luther King Boulevard on a property totaling about 3.85 acres. When I say West Fayetteville, to contextualize this a little bit for you, this is much closer to the western boundary of the city than it is to the downtown area. Specifically, we're about four and a quarter miles west of Interstate 49.
 beyond Ruppel, Broyles, Double Spring, and about a half mile or so from the western extent of Fayetteville. The property and its surroundings are largely residential in nature, or excuse me, rural and residential in nature, to some extent agricultural as well. However, there are quite a few uses that have served historic and
 lengthy times as commercial uses either before or mostly before they were annexed into the city of Fayetteville. The one that came up most recently at agenda session was the property immediately to the east, which if you go back through some of the historical aerial imagery, you can see it was an auto salvage property or appeared to be used for some form of auto salvage in the past.
 What's being requested of the council, and here I'm reorienting the property to you, hope that North Arrow helps keep you on track, is to take the existing RA residential agricultural zoning district and modify it into a PZD, a planned zoning district.
 What that is intended to accommodate is the use of the existing house as offices and potentially to expand into the other building on the property with even longer term plans to develop the middle portion of the property as a warehousing facility.
 And when I say slightly modify the RA residential agricultural zoning district, I truly mean that. This is a graphic form of the proposed zoning district and the current one. And the only change between the RA zoning district and what's proposed is the allowance for use units 21 and 25, which is zoning lingo for the allowance of warehousing and wholesale businesses as well as offices, which are not allowed by right or conditional use in the RA zoning district.
 We're considering this from a compatibility standpoint. Staff does find it to be compatible. While staff would generally have concern or be given pause by a plain straight rezoning in this part of the city to a commercial zoning district or a mixed use zoning district that may have outsized impacts, we feel that this is an appropriate minor change that would allow an area that has seen those historic commercial and agricultural uses.
 be able to continue or extend to this particular piece of property. As far as issues that we've identified, tree preservation will remain the same. Our zoning district and our PZDs have the exact same tree canopy standards in Fayetteville. Unsurprisingly, if you're familiar with our sewer collection network in Fayetteville, this is well outside the scope of it. So it does not have access to sewer and is likely that this property will be developed with septic and already has septic.
 An item that came up at agenda session that I wanted to show a little bit graphically for the council members was a question of what the topography looks like on the site, given it's not entirely visible from the street in particular. You can see that there is a slight draw to properties to the east, however this site itself is relatively flat, especially that central portion of it where the future warehouse is proposed, including a slope of about 2% to the east.
 Finally, we have received one piece of public inquiry on this item, not a statement of opposition or support necessarily, just a curiosity of what's being proposed. With all those factors in consideration, staff is recommending approval. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously by a vote of 9-0, finding that the PZD in its limited scope is compatible and generally agreeing with staff's findings
 And with that I'm happy to take any questions that the council has and mayor I believe Mike Butler may be here as the applicant for this item, but I might have that wrong Okay, would you have to like speak for the council? Walter to help the owner of the property good. Don't have any questions. No pretty simple. Well, not quite No, no, no. All right. Let's take some public comment. I
 you go sit down i beg it's one turn to speak you have three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom and speak after that does anyone have any like speak in the chamber okay nobody on zoom all right we'll bring back to the council i would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second
 of motion second to go to the second reading care which please call the road dr jones yes
 Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. In order to approve a planned zoning district entitled PZD-2024-007 for approximately 3.85 acres located at 8049 West Weddington Drive in Ward 4.
 i would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second motion second go to the third and final word please call the role dr jones yes more yes leader yes verna yes yes yes yes yes stafford yes
 In order to approve a planned zoning district entitled PZD-2024-007 for approximately 3.85 acres located at 8049 West Weddington Drive in Ward 4. Any final comments? Chairman, would you please call the roll?
 Dr. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Fellers, aren't you glad you stayed? Go back again and see us, you know. Yeah, come back and see us. Yeah, I bet he has. He has.
 Mayor, I have one announcement before we finish. So that everybody understands this comes around once a year. But anyway, in December, throughout the whole month, Animal Services will be having adopt pets for free. So you can pick out your pet and present a Christmas gift or whatever. But all through December. To see pictures of the available pets, go on to our website. And then take in... That's number five.
 And there's a little parade tomorrow night. Oh, that's right. Oh, so yes, Experience Faithful is hosting a parade, and we don't know what time it starts. I don't. Do you know? Dark, yeah. There's a Christmas parade. Are we in the parade, or do we just go watch the parade? You guys, I do not know the answer. Yeah. But I do know that Experience Faithful is managing the parade.