I'm going to call the City Council meeting of December the 1st, 2015 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Here. Tenant. Schottmeyer. Here. Loutier. Present. Long. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in signing the Pledge of Allegiance? Pledge of Allegiance to the United States of America, the republic for which it stands, with liberty and justice for all.
 Okay, tonight the first order of business that we have is the consent agenda. Welcome everyone. Number one, approval of the November 3rd, 2015 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a two-year sublease agreement with Ball Plaza Holdings LLC for 10 parking spaces located.
 and off street parking development district lot 7 for the purpose of converting the spaces from metered parking to free two-hour public parking at a monthly cost of $35 per space number three a resolution to approve a
 Amendment number 7 to the agreement for operations, maintenance, and management services between the City of Federal Arkansas and CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $7,872,234 for services in 2016.
 Number four a resolution authorized acceptance of a non matching Continuation sub grant from the internet crimes against children task force program any amount of nine thousand three hundred and seventy four dollars and to approve a budget adjustment number five resolutions approved pass order number five with Garver LLC the amount of forty five thousand five hundred dollars bid packings development bidding services construction phase services and
 and closeout services associated with the airport taxiway lighting rehabilitation project and approve a budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 15-62 and to authorize a contract with Permatrac North America LLC of Charlotte, North Carolina for the purchase of a prefabricated concrete boardwalk.
 system in the amount of $311,678 plus taxes for installation on the clabber Creek trail between Rupert Road and Salem Road and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $31,167 number 7 resolution approve a budget adjustment
 and the total amount of $2,244 representing donations to Rangers Pantry and Community Development Block Grant Program income received from housing lien payoffs. Number eight, a resolution to approve the purchase of 32 pairs of soccer goals
 for the regional park from BSN Sports of Dallas, Texas, in the amount of $85,623, pursuant to a U.S. community's national cooperative purchasing program contract, and to approve a budget adjustment. Number nine, a resolution to name the new disc golf course at the Walker Park, the Waxhalls Disc Golf Course, in honor of the historic Archibald Yale homestead.
 entertain a motion to accept consent agenda is read so move second we have a motion in a second to accept consent agenda is read Sondra would you please call the roll Petty yes Tennant yes Shopmire LaTierre yes Gray yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes okay under unfinished business number one an ordinance to amend chapter 97 parks and recreation of the federal city code to allow 24-hour access to shared use paved trails
 to add leash requirements for animals in certain parks, to prohibit certain activities in parks, including unauthorized vehicle operation, use of paddle boards on city lakes, and shooting of model rockets
 to provide for certain activities and parks, including camping, horseback riding, limited mending at park events and posting of temporary signs, and to make other technical revisions. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second. Mayor, before we do that, excuse me, but I sent a memo out to all of y'all. Remember, the city council last meeting had amended the exhibit on this.
 We then received notification from the Attorney General's office, an opinion that says that all exhibits to this kind of ordinance must be published in newspaper. The exhibit to this particular ordinance was 16 pages long, which would be pretty expensive.
 In fact, it would probably triple the cost for the city clerk is what she estimated next year if we didn't do something So in order to try to keep her costs down I have revised the exhibit so it only includes those sections which are changed not any of the other sections that aren't changed and
 I sent that out to you today as soon as I could, but it wasn't very early. Sorry for that. Thanksgiving kind of got in the way. But it is there in front of you also showing not only the revised Exhibit A, but also a slight revision on the ordinance itself to be a little bit more clear on what it does.
 And so I would request that before we get into a reading that you all, if you're satisfied with at least this first attempt, that you would amend to those, to both the enacting ordinance change, which is very slight, but then the exhibit change, which is what you've already heard before in my earlier memo to you, but also includes three other things that I outlined in my memo to you today.
 Any questions I'd be happy to answer or try to further explain this if I need to. So moved. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to amend to the exhibit change. Well, both the enacting ordinance change and the exhibit change. Enacting ordinance change and exhibit change. Okay. What discussion do we have on that? Okay. Okie dokie. Any public comment on that?
 so you're not bringing back to the council sondra would you please call the rob petty yes tenant yes shot mar yes latour yes long gray yes marsh yes kenyan yes now mayor rather than suspending the rules let me read the amended order as it has been changed
 In Ordinance to amend various sections within Chapter 97 Parks and Recreation of the Fayetteville City Code to allow 24-hour access to shared use paved trails, to add leash requirements for animals in certain parks, to prohibit certain activities in parks including unauthorized vehicle operation and use of paddle boards on city lakes, to allow certain activities in parks including camping, horseback riding, limited vending at park events, and posting of temporary signs to make other technical revisions.
 Whereas certain sections of the parks and recreation chapter of the Fayetteville City Code should be updated to prohibit certain undesirable activities and to authorize certain activities that are appropriate for city parks and to make technical corrections. Now, therefore, it being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeals various sections and subsections...
 of Chapter 97, Parks and Recreation, of the Fayetteville City Code, and enacts replacement sections and subsections of Chapter 97 as shown on Exhibit A attached here too. Okay.
 And Connie, I think, originally brought this. I have talked with Connie. This is your department, so feel free to come up to the podium, Connie. I think you've seen my proposed changes, which were not very, not substantial, but more of a housekeeping way, and I think you said that you are agreeable with those changes. Yes.
 Yes, and those changes were to authorize the Fayetteville Police and Animal Control officers to carry weapons or slings and traps in our park in Chapter 97.066, authorizing city staff to operate and leave vehicles in city parks in Chapter 97.053,
 and not repeating the permission for camping for Boy Scouts found in Chapter 97.068N and 97.70. That was mentioned in the park general rules as well as the lake recreation rules. Okay. Any questions? Yes, Mark. Okay, the—
 The authorization for the police, and then it says and animal control officers to carry weapons is pretty broad. Has that always been in this?
 It has not. In fact, it said, previously it said, no person shall carry a weapon. Well, obviously, if our police are going into the park responding to a dangerous situation, they need to have their weapons with them. And so I just felt like the police are going to do that and have done it for a long time. Right. I asked the chief, I just want to make it crystal clear that...
 We agree that they should be able to do it, and of course, the animal control officers need to be able to have traps and slings, you know, where they have a little hook on the pole to be able to catch an animal if there's a problem like that. So I felt like we needed to have both of those clearly stated that that is legal and proper in our parks. But the way this reads, the animal control officer would also carry it.
 be authorized to carry a weapon and I... He's not prohibited from doing that. I don't know if any of our animal control officers have weapons or are certified to have weapons. So, you know, this just says, you know, I could have spelled it out even more, but our animal control officers do not carry weapons at this point in time and I don't think they ever will, but I can ask the Chief. Chief, why don't you come up and say what you know about that. They're there to capture animals.
 And if an animal is so dangerous that it has to be hurt, then they're going to call the police. I think, is that right, Chief? I'm sorry, give me the question one more time. I said animal control officers are there to control an animal, usually with a pole that has a hook on it or something like that, to capture them if there's a problem. And if there's some animal that's too dangerous, then they would ask for your police officer's help, right? I think that's correct. I guess it goes back to Mr. Kenyon's point.
 Question about the weapon. I'm not aware of any animal control officers carrying firearms, but, you know, could pepper spray, could something like that be considered a weapon? And what they would be allowed to under here, and I think that basically what I want to do is say the two kind of enforcement arms of the city can operate as normal in the parks, just like they can all over the city. That's why I worded it that way.
 I feel like it's real broad. That's my concern. A weapon, you're right, could be a multitude of things, including a firearm. I don't know. We could amend it if you felt the need. Well, I've just seen this, and I just have to—
 No persons except city police and animal control officers shall use. So basically it just says that when we ban weapons from all kinds of things, slings and traps from the parks, we are not banning our police from having their normal equipment, nor are we banning our animal control officers from having their normal equipment. We're not authorizing them to have anything they don't have now.
 We're just saying they're not within this general prohibition that people are not supposed to have any of these weapons or slings or traps. Just a minute, Senator Allen. So would the weapon that they're authorized to carry not be what's authorized by the city administration? Certainly. The mayor's office? I mean, that would be in the standard operating procedures, I would assume.
 I mean they wouldn't bring their own weapon that be carrying a city weapon. If they had one well, I don't see my animal control officers caring 45's. I mean I don't I'm not talking about firearms here, but they have slings and and traps and stuff like that and I don't really know.
 This really doesn't empower the animal control officers any more than they already are. It just says they're not prohibited from going and acting in the parks like they do all over town. Usually they carry their tranquilizer guns if it's a situation where they need that. Yeah. So, so...
 Sarah and then John. I just have a question because you mentioned under weapons pepper spray. Now are ordinary citizens prohibited from carrying pepper spray in our parks? I have my mace in my purse when I go jogging at night. Is that prohibited? A normal person can carry pepper spray unless there's something specific in the ordinance that prohibits that. I don't know the answer to that. There's not? There's not. Okay. John. I don't want the law to be too overbroad. I mean, banning all weapons is my pocket knife now a weapon?
 No, if you look further on in the way it is right now, I actually narrowed it so that our police and animal control officers would not be affected by this ordinance. The ordinance, as it said before and as it still says, it talks about other weapons or devices potentially inimical to wildlife or dangerous to human safety. Well, my pocket knife could harm somebody. Okay.
 Well, I guess if you wield it in such a way that it can be. Right now, we don't actually, you know, when it comes to knives, a pocket knife is usually not going to be a weapon that would have any police reaction, would it? It would not. So baseball bats are okay, too? On the field. It boils down to your intent, I think. I think intent would be important. Well, is there any more discussion on the...
 Well, I will lead this on the second reading. That way you have plenty of time to digest this, to look at it. If you have any other questions, please ask the chief or ask Yolanda Fields or our animal control director or myself.
 But surely this is not an emergency to make this these changes so this way we can get it in the final agenda you have plenty of time to look at it so that's what yes, you just leave it on this reading and and there are any questions be happy to answer. So the rest of the staff. John you had no question. Section 9, 7, dot 0, 6, 7, picnic facilities duty of picnic or no person a no person in parks to use any portion of Park or recreational facilities to the exclusion of other persons.
 If I get there and grilling my hamburgers on a grill, I don't expect someone to say, I get to use the grill too. Okay, you need to continue reading that. I did.
 So, I mean, you do envision someone getting there on a first-come, first-served basis, and that would be their grill while they're using it. They just can't use it for a reasonable amount of time. That's what it says. It says that the recreational facilities will generally follow the rule of first-come, first-served unless otherwise scheduled by the Parks and Recreation Department. Sometimes they'll schedule the pavilion to be for a family gathering or something like that.
 And so then they will say, well, sorry, you might have been here first, but it's scheduled for 2 o'clock for this family. Connie, you can explain your procedure. We have an online service that people may reserve pavilions for two hours, up to four hours for larger groups at a time, and they schedule it. They have a letter that states that they have that scheduled through our office. And, you know, they're on the first come, first serve. They're there regularly.
 and it seems to work. We have a great system that seems to work. And Connie, if I just show up and want to grill burgers and there's a vacant grill, I can go grill and I don't have to yield to someone who else wants to use it while I'm there for a reasonable amount of time, right? That's correct. And I think the change that was suggested by the Parks and Rec Department was they went from a fireplace, calling it a fireplace, to a grill. That was the only thing that got changed in that particular section. Okay. Well, I'd like to see more clarity in that first sentence then.
 We'll talk to Connie then. Thanks, Connie. Any other questions? Okay, is there any public comment on this? Mr. Mayor, my name is Lorraine O'Neill. I'm at 3001 West Weddington, and it's not about the subject at hand, but this building is vibrating. Does anybody know what's going on? I can feel it pulsating. All the excitement in the room. I don't know. I mean, I'm literally vibrating in my seat over here.
 Does anybody know? I mean, it's like a heavy boom box or something somewhere nearby. I don't know. It's really weird. Okay. Okay. It's a really weird thing going on. Okay. Thank you, Lorraine. I don't think I have an answer for the vibrating room. Okay. All right.
 i could make a motion to stop it from vibrating yeah i don't know if i get a second i can second it then we can have discussion yeah okay maybe table it is there any other public comment on the parks and recreation ordinance from the public
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Do you want to leave it here? Well since we just got this this afternoon just to be sure and living very close to a park, I know that people often interpret things and I want to read it to see how someone else may interpret it and then we can maybe have some clarification because we don't want to overdo it, but at the same time we need to be
 It needs to be understandable. So if I could indulge a little more time to look at it, I would appreciate it. Sure. Absolutely. So we'll leave it on the second reading. Okay. Number two.
 In order to amend 73.04, riding on roadways and bicycle paths, to provide for the safe operation of bicycles on roadways and bicycle paths, and to amend 73.05, riding on sidewalks, to provide for the safe operation of bicycles on sidewalks. Will I entertain a motion to go to the second reading? So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Patty? Yes.
 Tenet. Yes. Topmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. In order to amend Section 73.04, Riding on Roadways and Bicycle Paths, to provide for the safe operation of bicycles on roadways and bicycle paths, and to amend Section 73.05, Riding on Sidewalks, to provide for the safe operation of bicycles on sidewalks. And I think Peter has potentially some amendments that you want to present.
 Actually, the Active Transportation Advisory Committee is scheduled to discuss this item at their meeting, a special meeting that they've called for tomorrow evening. And so the request is to leave this item on the second reading to allow their input and to entertain a recommendation from them at you all's next meeting on December 15th. Okay. What's the wishes of the council? I move we leave it on the second reading.
 Any public comment? Anybody come to speak on this before we hold it on to second reading? Okay, so we'll hold it right here. All right, under new business, number one, a resolution to rename the Federal Animal Shelter the Libhorn Animal Shelter of Federal. Mayor, you suggested to me that with the passing of Libhorn, who has been a strong friend and champion of animals for most of her adult life,
 and was a operated favorable animal shelter for 13 years and was someone that we both know and like and was well liked i think by many people that it would be appropriate if the city council sees fit to name the fatal animal shelter in her honor we learned after that and after we first started to propose this resolution that in fact she was even more generous than we thought
 She has named the Fayetteville Animal Shelter as one of her primary beneficiaries. It appears that as much as $50,000 will come from her estate for the animal shelter. So we feel like that this is a quite appropriate thing to do, and I invite you, Mayor, to say whatever you want to on this yourself. But when you asked me to draft it up, I was happy to draft the resolution up. Right. Thank you.
 This is something that I thought we would do in honor of Lib because she was instrumental in our animal shelter, the Federal Animal Shelter, and then she moved on and worked with the county to get their animal shelter established.
 Anybody that knew her knew that she had a heart for animals and people. And some of the procedures manual that we have down at the animal shelter right now is something animal shelters use nationwide on the spayed and neutered program. I remember when we had Hurricane Tina come through that she set up a shelter for displaced animals. And she got those animals back to the owners. And if she didn't get back to the owners, she made sure they got adopted. So she had a real...
 She was a real pioneer and a great friend and a good person. So anything else the council would like to say? I appreciate y'all bringing this forward. Lib Horne and I go back quite a long time. I'm on the Animal Services Board. Lib helped me start the Friends of the Fayetteville Animal Shelter. We've raised a lot of money through that nonprofit that's still in operation today.
 She was just kind of all of our mentors in animal services, and she taught me a lot, and I'll always appreciate that. Yeah, me too. Thank you. Me too. Any public comment? I'll bring it back to the council. Move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmer. Yes. Lutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Thank you, council, very much.
 Okay, number two an ordinance waiver requirements form of competitive bidding and approved contract between the city of federal Arkansas and the federal Youth Center incorporated in the amount of two hundred twenty five thousand dollars to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of federal for 2016 kit
 Whereas providing quality recreational opportunities to the youth and citizens of our community is in the mutual interest of the City of Fayetteville and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated and whereas the Fayetteville Youth Center Inc and the City of Fayetteville have had a long and close working relationship for many years and this relationship allows for a continuity of services vital to the efficient provision of recreational opportunities and whereas were not for the services offered by the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated the City of Fayetteville would be required to assume the duty of providing staff and
 promotion, and development for youth recreation services. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical
 and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center, Inc. in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2016. A copy of the contract is attached to the agenda item. Okay. Connie? Connie Edmonston. We are requesting approval of this contract with the Fayetteville Boys and Girls Club.
 which is known in this contract as the Fayetteville Youth Center, Inc. And we're also requesting a waiver of competitive bids because the Fayetteville Youth Center has served us well for the past 48 years. This is a contract that we've had since 1967. It has worked out very well.
 Each year we update our working agreement so that we do not duplicate services. We believe this gives our community more services if we are not making our citizens choose between the Boys and Girls Club or Parks and Recreation. So it's been a great working relationship for us.
 The agreement is very similar as to what it was in 2015. Some of the programs have been updated. We do, there was a change in the summer free lunch program in which the Fayetteville Boys and Girls Club bus comes and picks up the children from the Yvonne Richardson Center so that they can have a free lunch during the summertime. And we also added to this agreement
 that they would provide bus transportation for parks and recreation, biking and running events. The Boys and Girls Club is designated as an emergency shelter should we need it, and they have provided that service back in 2009 for us.
 And I guess the last thing is this contract was increased 5% over last year. Do I have any questions? What questions do we have for Connie Allen? And we do have Eric Schultz, who is the executive director of the Boys and Girls Club here. And he's eager to address us, aren't you, Eric? He is. Do you miss your City of Fayetteville days? For sure. He was a longtime employee until he deserted us for the...
 I'm still trying to serve the citizens, though. The one thing I'd like to say is this upcoming year, 2016, will be our organization's 75th anniversary since 1967. You guys have supported the services that we provide to the community, and I just want to say thank you for what you guys do for us, because without your support it would be very, very difficult to offer the wide variety of programs and services that we offer. Thank you.
 I'm just here to answer any questions that you guys might have. Thank you, Eric, for all your programs, services you provide for this city. What questions do we have? Yes, John. Eric, we're very pleased with the job you're doing and the services that are provided. I'm just curious, what are the main sources of your funding?
 Say the top five. They give you the most money during the year. Probably our number one revenue generator is programs that we offer. You charge a fee? We do charge a fee, mainly for activities such as football, basketball, rental fees. I think I've paid some of those fees. Probably have. Rental fees is probably another one.
 We do birthday parties. We have a church that rents our facility on Sunday mornings. That's a good revenue generator for us. And one on Sunday evenings. They use a couple rooms on Sunday evenings, also a revenue generator for us. United Way is a supporter of the Boys and Girls Club. I know I'm forgetting one or two. We raise funds either through our annual campaign, which our board organizes,
 is responsible for doing. They go out in the community and raise funds. And of course we seek grants. And part of the agreement with the city, one of our responsibilities is to go out in the community and raise grants for our own expenses that we do have. One of the things I'll point out, since we went into the new facility,
 This would be the first increase that we have gotten, and we do appreciate the 5%. That's a wonderful gift. We've tried to be as self-sufficient as possible with, as far as paying for the things that we need. Sure. I'm sure you'll be a good steward of all the monies that's entrusted to you, right? Sure. Good. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 As wishes, the council. This is an ordinance. May we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2016.
 We suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. Motion to second, go to third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center, Inc., in the amount of $225,000, provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2016. Go ahead, Jeff. And I want to thank the Youth Center for what they do. I've spent a lot of time there myself coaching.
 playing basketball and doing things like that and some of those kids that you talk to if you ever doubt that we should support them uh go there after school sometime and and see that you know you talk to some of those kids and that's all they've got and so what would it be without it you know what would they be doing it's it's a really really good place and i'm really really glad you're doing what you're doing thank you jess great job
 i too work on some of those programs as well and i know what a fantastic job you all do thank you okay any other final comments sonner was please call her up petty yes shopmar yes mature yes long yes gray yes marsh yes yes okay number three
 North's wage requirements form a competitive bidding and to approve a contract between the City of Federal Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $101,205 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Federal for 2016 KIPP.
 Whereas providing quality recreation opportunities to the senior citizens of our community is of mutual interest to the City of Fayetteville and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas, which has provided these services to seniors in Fayetteville for the past 44 years. And whereas the Area Agency on Aging is very qualified and uniquely able to provide the continuity of services vital to the efficient provision of recreational opportunities to the senior citizens of Fayetteville.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby fines the above circumstances, make competitive bidding not feasible or practical.
 and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $101,205 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2016. A copy of this contract is attached to the agenda item.
 This is a contract for services for 2016 to serve our senior citizens here in our city. With good diversified recreational programs. This is a contract that we've had with either the Council on Aging, starting back in 1972 when we just had the Hillcrest Towers. And then in 2003 when we built the Walker Park Senior Adult and Wellness Center.
 It became part of this contract in 2003. So we're requesting a waiver of the competitive bids because they have provided excellent service for the past 44 years. We do have a working agreement that is outlined in the contract. The Walker Park Senior Adult Center also is designated as an emergency shelter should our city need it.
 This year, our increase in the contract was 20% due to the increase in number of senior citizens participating in those programs. And tonight, I have Kayla Wilson, who is the director of the Walker Park Senior Adult Center and Wellness, here with me. Kayla. Mayor Jordan and City Council. We'll let Mike down just a little bit. Greeting Mayor Jordan and City Council members. Thank you.
 The Fayetteville Senior Activity and Wellness Center is a vital source of socialization, recreation for our community seniors. They count on that interaction on a daily basis. They complain that I'm not open on the weekends.
 But it's a vital source of community for our seniors. The Wellness Center provided 12,333 hours of socialization and recreation for Hillcrest Towers between January and October of 2015.
 The Fayetteville Senior Center offers structured, evidence-based exercise programs designed specifically for ages 60 and older. The Fayetteville Senior Center offered 24,988 hours between January and October of 2015.
 The center also serves as a community meeting center and social center for the community and for community outreach. Examples such as the community garden, they meet there to purchase their plots. The farmers market vouchers for our seniors, they meet there and they're distributed through the senior center.
 Also, other community organizations such as Compassion Center, not Compassion Center, Compassion Fayetteville is another organization that meets on a regular basis. We open up the center for ping pong tournaments and other activities within the community.
 The senior center runs a taxi program that is partially funded by the City of Fayetteville, and we greatly appreciate that. This service provides seniors that do not have transportation to their doctor's appointments, to the grocery store, even to their vet appointments, and the beauty shop.
 Currently, in 2015, we have provided 7,929 rides for seniors in the community. I offer any questions if you have any questions. What questions do we have? John. Your numbers sound impressive, 7,000 rides in our community, but how many different people? I asked this at agenda session last week. Tell me again the number of people involved. I think it was much smaller than 7,000.
 For my taxi service? Well, your taxi service, you might be bringing the same person to the beauty shop 52 times during the year. That's one person being served, but in your numbers it sounds like there are 52 people being served. We count each trip as one trip. Right. So how many people are being served by your taxi service? Do you know that number? According to my records, 7,929 people. Okay.
 Now, that includes Hillcrest Towers, and it also includes trips to activities. Certainly. But that would be, if I'm one person and I take 52 trips using your service during the year, that would be included, you'd count me 52 times in your number to get to 7,000. Yes. But that's not 52 people. I'm only one, really, just one. Right. Okay. Okay.
 So your numbers are a little misleading when you say there's 7,000 people being served. 7,000 rides were given maybe to a hundred different people. They each rode 70 times during the year. Okay. I just want that to be clear. And another point I'd like to make is our country's an 18 trillion dollars worth of debt because we're funded a lot of good things. And this is one of those good things. I'm not sure I can vote against it, but it gives me pause to think about
 All the money we're spending, we just raised taxes on our citizens so we could spend this money on a select group of people. I'm not sure that's the business of Fayetteville. I appreciate your comment. But I'll vote for you. How's that? I appreciate your comment. Sure. Okay. Any other questions? All right. Any public comment on this? Okay. Bring it back to the council.
 Ms. May. I would just like to say I want to thank you for all that you do as far as serving the community in that area. I know you've hosted our ward meetings after hours and been a really great gathering space for people in that neighborhood as well as senior citizens. And I've heard from many senior citizens about how much they value the programs and services you provide. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I want to thank you too because I do volunteer some of my time to do meals on wheels down there and I will say that some senior citizens, those meals get them by when they're on a lot of fixed incomes. So thank you. You're welcome. It's an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Second. Motion second. Go to second reading. Sonnage, please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas...
 in the amount of $101,205 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2016. Thank you very much. We're greatly appreciative. We're going to have to spend the rules and go to another. We're not finished yet. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading.
 Second. Motion to second go to third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmont. Yes. LaTierre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract
 in the amount of $101,205 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2016. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray.
 A resolution to approve an interlocal agreement for the continuation expansion of ambulance services by and with the City of Fayetteville, the Washington County Regional Ambulance Authority, Washington County, Elkins, Elm Springs, Farmington, Goshen, Greenland, Johnson, Lincoln, Prairie Grove, Tontitown, West Fork, and Winslow, and to authorize the Ambulance Authority to operate Central Emergency Medical Services as the exclusive emergency and non-emergency ambulance service within the cities. Chief?
 Thank you, Mayor, Councilors. This is a resolution that would extend the current interlocal cooperation agreement between the cities in the county and the county itself and it will expand the territory covered by the Washington County Regional Ambulance Authority into Elm Springs and Tawny Town and Northern Johnson in the northeast and northwest portion of Washington County.
 It also moves the per capita rate up to $6.06 for all of the cities and $17.56 for the county residents, and it moves it from the 2000 census up to the 2010 census, and so the
 The portion Fedville's portions going from two hundred seventy thousand up to four hundred forty five thousand eight hundred ninety five dollars Excuse me We're adding one more ambulance that is being paid for by the new entities in the interlocal agreement cooperation agreement, so city of Fayetteville is not paying for that new ambulance and
 those cities and the county are paying for the new ambulance for the expanded coverage area. But it is a five-year agreement and it's been passed by the other entities that are part of the agreement and I think it's going to be a recommend that you approve the resolution. It's a good deal for the city I think. One question to add to the Chief on this.
 Chief, I want to say I think this has been a real success story. I remember the struggles, and I'm sure the mayor does, when we first were trying to get into this agreement, and we had to make some changes that were suggested by then Alderman Jordan that really improved the agreement, and I think it's operated very well through the years, and it's hurt many, many people. You're on the board there. Yes, sir. What's your overview of how it's acted the last several years?
 I think it's been a success story. I mean, we've held off increasing the subsidies that the government entities have been paying. Or I think in 2011, we renewed it without increasing the subsidies. So I think we've got a class—
 A-class service and it's expanding and we're taking care of our capital expenditures and replacements of the ambulances. I think we have a good rating from the customers that we serve and I think it's a very efficient operation. And we've expanded the territories without a
 you know, having to lean on the governments involved too much. The government subsidies 10% of the overall budget. Thanks, Chief. Yeah. Chief, you've done a great job on that. It's, uh, I can remember when we first started this. It probably wasn't quite as rosy as it is now, but, uh, that was a pretty good... I was on the negotiating team for that, so that was, that was, uh, an interesting time. But... Well, you were instrumental in getting this. Huh? You were instrumental in getting this, uh,
 These improvements done too. I think that needs to be said. Alderman Shopmeyer is on the ambulance authority board also, so he's worked for, we had a lot of workshops to get this all figured out. So thank you, Mayor, Councilors, for your support. All right. Is there any questions for the Chief? Any public comment on this? Thank you.
 aubrey shepherd yes this is a wonderful agreement there's something i think it's been several years ago that i commented on when this came through maybe there is a way that people can contribute personally outside our tax money and that's by going down to the headquarters and of the ambulance service and donating
 donating well i think we deserve to pay part of it that way because especially if we're getting older i think we might need the ambulance but anyhow you can become a member or small fee and that helps cover things like people who don't have the money to make a co-pay if they have to have ambulance service and if you do have insurance
 they can actually get that extra money that you would be charged from your insurance company. I don't know the details of this. It might be something people want to talk about more. But even for a big family, it's less than $100, I believe. Whatever it is, it's well worth the money. And I urge everybody who could afford a little more ahead of time,
 to get that and hope you guys pass it immediately thank you thank you aubry anyone else can't go bring it back to the council i mean we passed the resolution second motion is second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council
 Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Thank you very much, Council. This is a very successful program. Very successful. All right. Number five. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 15-5223 for approximately 2.53 acres located at the southeast corner of West Martin Luther King Boulevard and South Stadium Drive from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre to CS Community Services. Kit? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas are hereby changing the zone classification of the following inscribed property from RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre to CS community services as shown on exhibits A and B attached to the agenda item.
 Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville are hereby amends official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. As you might have noticed, I'm no longer saying the exhibits are attached to the ordinance because if we did, we would have to publish them and the map would be fairly expensive to publish. There's still, I believe, Sandra, correct me if I'm wrong, you're still going to file the legal description with the ordinance at the City Clerk, at the County Clerk's Office. Yes.
 Okay, Jeremy. This is a two and a half acre property located on the south side of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard across from the Fayetteville High School. It has access to Stadium Drive to the west. Property is crossed by a significant overhead power line and also by College Branch, which is a creek which is subject to our streamside protection ordinance. That creek is along the south side of the property. The proposed zoning, which is community services, staff feels is compatible with the surrounding mixture of commercial, residential, and institutional uses.
 The nearest residence is approximately 200 feet from the property. Community services, as you know, allows, it's a commercial zoning district, allows commercial uses. It also allows residential uses in a form-based zone.
 Properties currently zoned RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre. So this would simply allow for non residential uses as well This is a city neighborhood area within our future land use plan and staff does feel it is appropriate incompatible with the city plan Planning Commission agreed with that and recommended nine to zero in favor of the rezoning. Okay, what questions we have for Jeremy on this? You don't hurt anything. It's I have not received any Okay. All right any public comment? I
 Aubrey Shepherd, I live near there in the neighborhood in South Duncan. I'm thankful that we heard about the power line. The power line covers a buildable part of the lot. And if any of you remember a recent airplane crash, it occurred just a little ways down. The stream does run through it. It would have a major riparian zone to protect. It, uh...
 is primarily riparian zone and or actual full-time wetland little streams run through it off the highway off the university campus in the uh excuse me high under the high school water comes across the street goes through the edge of that property so the zoning currently is rmf 24 and that's obviously absurd
 I don't think anybody wants a house under that power line, which is almost the only way it could be there. We know from what happened uphill from there that that power line can be deadly. If you're using a lift truck, that's how one person was killed up there two years ago or whatever when they were building the View Apartments.
 There's a limited amount that can be developed there logically and stay within all our rules. Protecting trees, protecting the watershed, and so forth. So it's quite possible that a little bit of some kind of small business could be there. I would say I wouldn't want to put anything under the power line, but a little away from the edge maybe something. What it's been used for most recently
 is raised by game park and they're constantly needing more space for that and so i i think it's okay that that's being used that way to think of it as a building site of any significant size building would be a great mistake i think so sure there's something can be done rather than leaving that totally fair but taking out any more trees around it between that lot and the
 stream town branch. What would be a mistake so whatever you do about zoning it should be monitored very closely as I know will be the planning department and finally something to prove for you guys thank you. Yeah, the public comments on this now bring back to Council.
 Mark. This is a pretty sensitive area due to the velocity of water that is approaching the creek at this area. And I know that we do have the streamside protection ordinance, so I think that this is going to be an improvement because we're less likely to have the runoff from rooftops of a multifamily development, however small it is. And just to echo Aubrey's concern, this is extremely—
 sensitive because of the runoff from the university and the high school. I really have a hard time seeing what exactly they can build. I mean... A photo hut. It's a very small... If you look at the corner there, I don't know, something small could go there, pedestrian or... I got to delve in there. Mayor, may I ask Jeremy? Yeah, sure. Mayor, Jeremy, I was wondering, do you, can you...
 Address any of these concerns that Aubrey has spoken about to a certain extent I can't answer the question about what might be developed there But to the question about the power line if I'm not mistaken The size of that power line requires a 100-foot easement which their structures cannot be built within that easement So that would impede development upon the property to a certain extent and of course as mentioned and discussed at the agenda session We do have a streamside protection ordinance. That's in effect. I
 And there's two zones to that, a 25 foot zone and another 25 foot zone for a total of 50 from the top of Bank of the Creek. So that's really along the south side of the property. There will also be some FEMA regulations that the applicant would have to comply with related to floodplain, which does encompass some of the property. So all this together, regardless of what zoning this property is, I think it's going to be somewhat difficult to develop. We'll work with them to try to make sure something fits within our ordinances as well as the federal laws.
 so we so we do have an applicant we have someone who's looking at it or did we bring this um no the an applicant an applicant brought this that's correct okay okay thank you sure i'm not sure what the intended use of the property is but i can imagine um you know by allowing commercial uses by right that could open this up for mobile vending um or some other temporary use such as that which might minimize the impact and not necessarily require um
 constructing a structure, but I do like the idea of having a variety of uses along our trailside. You know, this is a great opportunity for trailside businesses or small residences that could also help serve the high school population across the street. So I think that this is an improvement. I
 curious to see what they can do with the other regulations in place to protect the rest of the property but i think that it is definitely a step in the right direction and i look forward to seeing something here i applaud the council's ability to see beyond ourselves to recognize that the owner of the property may have a good idea for the property that we don't foresee
 If they're complying with our codes, with the federal FEMA laws, with the flood plans, with the riparian zones, with the whatever zones we have, and they can make it work and they can make it pay, let's let them go and let them use their imagination to serve the people of Fayetteville and of that region.
 Area Fayetteville just like Alderwoman Morris points out. It's a great for the trails People traveling may get thirsty may need some Gatorade or something like that We can't foresee all of those needs But a person who's developing that land has an idea and they want to try that idea at their risk It may work. It may not work. They will then step out and try I applaud that entrepreneurship and
 and that risk taker. If no one had taken risks, there'd be no Fayetteville. We wouldn't be here. Somebody had to step out and take a risk and come and settle and build this place. Let's keep building it. Okay. Any public comment on this? So now I'm bringing it back to the council.
 We suspend the rules and go to the second reading. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Cassandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 And in order to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 15-5223 for approximately 2.53 acres located at the southeast corner of West Martin Luther King Boulevard and South Stadium Drive from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to CS Community Services. Okay. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone in petition RZN 15-5223 for approximately two and a half acres located at the southeast corner of West Martin Luther King Boulevard and South Stadium Drive from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to CS Community Services. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay, I am curious to see bring in on that one. So would you please call the petty. Yes, can it. Yes, shot my mature. Yes, long. Yes, right. Yes, March. Yes, yes. Okay, number 6. We have an appeal. An ordinance rezone that property described rezoning petition RZN 15 dash 52 14 for approximately 186.65 acres
 located west of the intersection of North Gregg Avenue and West Van Ash Drive from RA Residential Agricultural to C2 Thurford Commercial and C3 Central Commercial. Kip? Mayor, because of the importance of this particular ordinance and potential...
 litigation I would ask that we formally amend section one so that it says that as shown on exhibits a and B attached to the agenda item as opposed to attached here to have made a part hereof so if you would make that motion to amend section one
 I want to try to make sure we dot all the I's and cross all the T's on this one. So moved. Second. Second. Well, hang on. I want to get my head wrapped around the amendment. So the amendment is going to state what can- It's basically that the exhibits will be attached or as attached to the agenda item and will not be attached to the ordinance. Okay. Why do we need this?
 This is to save publication costs for the city clerk because she has informed me, and I'll speak for herself, about the publication costs for a map and other things. In the past on an ordinance we put at the bottom when we published the ordinance that the exhibits may be viewed in the city clerk's office. The Attorney General has come out with an opinion that those exhibits now have to be...
 placed in the newspaper if they're an exhibit. So that's going to increase the publication cost tremendously. If we classify something as an exhibit, it will have to be published in the paper. So by putting it as an attachment to the ordinance and not as an exhibit, it saves publication cost. And it's still in the packet. Thank you. Just change the order. It's a big cost saver for the city. I'm all for saving city dollars. We have a...
 Would anyone like to make a motion to? I think. We've already made the motion. I'm sorry. All right. We have an amendment on the exhibits to the agenda item, correct? Yeah, it's a section one that refers to where the exhibits will be attached. All right. Any discussion on it? Any discussion? Yes, Aubrey, of the comment. On the amendment. Yeah, I'm all for spending money on that. I'm sorry. Okay.
 And saving money on it. One thing we don't have going on tonight, the public at home, I guess, is not seeing these just as I'm not seeing the things that are in the package. Hang on just a moment. I think we can address that for you. I think this is always important to share, and that's one way to publicize it without spending extra money. Jeremy, have you got that? We got that. He'll get you some. Thank you.
 Mayor, the entire ordinance and exhibits are on the city's website, and they're on the city's website before the city council meeting. Okay. Is that what you're looking for, Aubrey? Yes. Okie doke. All right. Any other public comment on the amendment? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second. Any final comments on the amendment? All right. Senators, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schaumar? Yes. Latour? No. Second.
 Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, now I'll read the ordinance as amended. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, Section 1. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of following described property from RA Residential Agricultural to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and C3 Central Commercial as shown on exhibits A and B attached to the agenda item.
 Section 2 that the City Council city fail arcs are here by men's official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect a zoning change provided in section 1 above
 And section three, severability. That the city council, city of Fayetteville, actually hereby determines that if the Johnson City Council determines that a portion of this rezoned acreage is not compatible with the zoned land uses of the adjoining lands, unquote, in Johnson pursuant to its power under ACA 1456306 and refuses to agree to a portion of this rezoning,
 then all other unaffected property within this petition RZN 15-5214 shall still be immediately rezoned pursuant to Section 1. Okay. Chairman.
 This is a large and built area of a hundred and approximately 186 acres Generally bounded by I 49 corridor to the west the Fulbright Expressway to the south Greg Avenue to the east and Jupiter Drive to the north the property's undeveloped farmland has been utilized that Utilize that for many decades Recently been bisected by the city's construction of van ash van ash drive across the property which connects highway 112 just west of I 49 to Gregg Street and then into our Cmn business park area
 Properties currently zoned are a residential agricultural still utilized for those purposes I'm just so you're aware the site also includes an isolated undeveloped four acre parcel on the south side of the Fulbright Expressway Along Gregg Avenue based on planning and zoning criteria the Planning Commission and staff Recommended denial of this ordinance to reason the property to see to and thoroughfare commercial from the RA zoning district staff are
 indicated to the applicant and Planning Commission that we were supportive of portions of the property being rezoned to C2 and C3, particularly along the boundaries with adjacency to the interstate and the railroad. With a balance of the interior of the property being rezoned for commercial uses through one of the city's form-based zones, the applicant has properly appealed the City Planning Commission's decision to the City Council.
 There are two unusual circumstances within this rezoning application I want to make you aware of. First is that the City of Johnson pursuant to state law, a portion of this rezoning must approve the rezoning request within 1,000 feet of their city limit boundary. This does abut the City of Johnson. They have been informed of that case. The Mayor of Johnson and their staff engineers submitted a letter to the City of Fayetteville discussing that residential uses would be increased
 incompatible with the existing industrial zones located in Johnson to the west of McGuire Street and east of Roosevelt Avenue. That's a matter to be decided by their city council and as Mr. Williams noted in his ordinance, that's something the applicant can take up with the City of Johnson when they present this application to them as well. Secondly, there is a pre-existing agreement, formal agreement with WG Land Company, which is the owners of the property from 2008.
 In 2008 of April, the City Council adopted a resolution, which is included in your packet, referring to a memorandum of understanding regarding WG Land Company. This resolution stated an understanding between the city and WG Land Company that WG Land Company would seek to de-annex its property, abutting the proposed Van Asch extension from the City of Johnson, in which it was located at the time. And in return, the city would annex the property, subject to three conditions—
 One it would come in to the city of Fayetteville zone is our a residential agricultural It would be utilized for those purposes until development of improvements commenced number two that as the property was brought into development north of Van Ness Drive shall be rezoned industrial and Three that as property was brought into development south of an ash shall be rezoned for commercial zoning district. I
 During the pre-application meetings, staff was not aware of this agreement. It was brought to our attention in the Planning Commission's attention after the rezoning recommendation was drafted and submitted to the Planning Commission after agenda session. It was discussed at the Planning Commission meeting. Because staff and commission generally do not get into legal discussions, I feel like it's a more proper discussion.
 Venue here at the City Council we made our recommendation planning staff made the recommendation based on playing and zoning policies and not on a legal Interpretation of this memo. It's more proper for our city attorney to discuss the primary point of discussion by the Planning Commission both of the meetings was two things one their application for zoning, but also discussion around the interpretation of that interpretation of that agreement
 I do want to make sure it's clear to the City Council that agreement never went to the Planning Commission. And so it really was, in my opinion, it was not proper for them to discuss the legality of that particular matter. And the legal interpretation of the resolution should be ultimately up to the city attorney's opinion. Mr. Williams has submitted a memo to that effect, and I'll let him speak to that point in more detail. Okay. Okay.
 I'd just like to begin this discussion by saying that this is just not your garden variety rezoning. Most rezonings, virtually all the rezonings that you do, you're entitled to great discretion by the courts. I am happy to report that in my working on 15 years as city attorney, you've never lost a zoning case and that's because you're a standard for reversing a decision by the city council in a zoning case only, if it's only zoning.
 is that you have to have acted arbitrarily and capriciously and unreasonably. Very, very difficult standard, and fortunately, city council has never done that. We've been sued a few times, and every time they've either given up or we've prevailed, and usually not even sued because that's such a difficult standard. But this is not a normal zoning case. This is, to some extent, also now a contract case.
 And that also makes it a much more different animal. In the zoning case, let's assume that you did act arbitrarily and refuse to zone some property in a certain way. The remedy for that would be that, well, the property would have to get zoned properly. But there would be a very, very difficult case for damages ever to be assessed against the city.
 In a case like that in a rezoning case the remedy would be they have the property Properly rezoned rather than damages against the city here We have what's called a memorandum of understanding which is a contract a written agreement and when there is a written agreement the written agreement controls what people might say about the agreement how their memories might be in the past or anything like that and
 are pretty much irrelevant, in fact, barred by the parole evidence rule from even being presented in court in most cases. So here we have a memorandum of understanding that was entered into after being presented to the city council, approved by the city council by resolution, and signed by Mayor Cootie, attested to by the city clerk.
 It's a very short memorandum of understanding. I believe it was probably drafted by Mr. Dumas, who was the operations director in over planning at that particular time, and he's the one that wrote the memo saying that the most logical rezoning when he was trying to encourage the city council to pass the resolution and this agreement said the most logical zoning would be C3.
 So, if in fact, I think all evidence seems to imply that this was written by the city, so if there is any uncertainty as to the meaning of what this contract states, then that uncertainty would be construed against the city and in favor of the landowner, the people that signed it but did not draft the agreement.
 So if we try to argue that, well, a commercially designed district, I mean, here it says commercial zoning district in caps, if that means something besides one of the three commercial districts,
 C1 C2 or C3 that all have commercial in their names and none of the form-based mixed-use Districts have commercial in their names if we're trying to say what it really meant one of these other form-based districts Even if that was questionable, which I really think it's probably not questionable It's going to be construed against us and held in favor of the landowner. So this is in my
 estimation, a very difficult case for us not to agree to fulfill what appears to be a mandate, at least for the land that is south of the New Van Asch. Now this Memorandum of Understanding was not very artfully drafted. The letter from the WG Land Company, when they asked for an agreement, said that they wanted the topmost part of the hill, which was over the warehousing and cold storage,
 to be zoned industrial for warehousing. Well, when we finally agreed with Johnson on the amount of land that was going to be de-annexed from Johnson and annexed into the city, it was 99 acres, it was 1,250 feet from into Johnson, and included more than the WT Land Company. It also included the McClinton Company, and we got this cement plant also.
 But we didn't get the top of the hillside. We didn't get the land that was needed for warehousing. And so the agreement says that everything north of the new Van Ash, rather than the old Van Ash, should be for warehousing. And that's probably not really what the WG Land Company people intended, but that's what the agreement says. But certainly everything south of Van Ash is clearly stated that it should be zoned to a commercially zoned district.
 And so what I am concerned about, and I really didn't make an argument to the Planning Commission about money, because they're not the guardians of the State City's treasury, you all are. You're the ones that pass the budget every year, decide where the money goes. It is your duty as aldermen to protect the city's resources and to allot them where they should go. To where should you spend the money, that's what you all decide.
 Planning Commission has no monetary powers So I told them that I felt like it was proper for them to comply with this agreement that the agreement seemed to be enforceable to me and that the agreement was such that a Standard commercial zoning that was in existence in 2008 rather than one that was not in existence for two years later Should be the one that is applied and when I wrote to you all I did quote the case in
 from the Supreme Court talking about how you interpret contracts. And this is the Taylor versus Hinkle case of 2004, which says it is well settled that the pole star of contractual construction is determined and enforced the intent of the parties. In ascertaining this intention, the court should place itself in the same situation as the parties who made the contract in order to view the circumstances as the party viewed them
 At the time the contract was made that means April 1 of 2008 no time later in April 1 of 2008 all of the form based on were made for the downtown district only.
 In fact, it was three and a half months before the Walker Park District was zoned. Three and a half months after this agreement was done, that there was any substantial use of any of these downtown form-based districts anywhere but in the downtown match plant area. I think that Jeremy has found one other thing that was on North College, one other small partial that was zoned with them, but it was certainly not at our northern borders.
 When and certainly I don't think that the other side of this agreement would have known about that When they said a commercial zone district the other problem we have with that is that the downtown district and the new other districts are not commercially zoned districts They are mixed use where all of them have as of right the right to be able to put either commercial in or to put Housing in so I think that is
 a court looking at this would probably come down pretty hard on the side of the landowner. And because of that, I'm going to have to ask you to, instead of looking at what you would think is the best for this for the planning purpose, and I frankly, I agree with what Andrew Garner had suggested as a good way to plan it with some C2 along the edges and some form base in the middle, I think that would be a great plan.
 But I don't think that that's something that we can force the landowners to accept even though in the long run It might be the best zoning for this because this time we have to look at the contract and what are our duties under the? Contract now what's the danger for the city if we decide we're gonna decide what's best for zoning for them anyway because we want to follow our 2030 plan and we like these form-based zones and they're gonna We're just gonna do it whether they want to or not. The problem with that is is
 I know their lawyer is here, but I don't have to tell him this. He already knows this. If a court would find that that was a breach of this agreement, a breach of this contract, to try to force them to accept something they have not asked and not give them the C-2 and C-3 that they are requesting, if they had potentially...
 got a tentative sale on some of their acreage and here we're dealing with 186 acres of very valuable land right along Van Asch, that beautiful new street we just spent millions to build. A prime commercial area. If they say that they have a tentative sale and can establish that and then the tentative sale goes away because the zoning is not what the buyer wanted,
 Then in a contract action, you're normally entitled to what's called lost profits. Loss of profits. So if the property is worth many millions when it's zoned C2 or C3 and not when it's zoned something else, then who do you think is going to pay those millions of dollars? It's our taxpayers. This could be the biggest financial problem the city has seen in over a quarter of a century.
 I think it would be a terrible gamble, a very high-risk gamble, and not worth the gamble to try to play chicken with these landowners and try to zone their property to something that they don't want when they have a contract that seems to say they get to have C2 or C3.
 So that's my analysis. It's not a clean slate like it is in most cases, or like the next rezoning will be of not the WG land, but the McClinton land, because there was no agreement with McClinton. So I think that you should look very carefully at this and consider the potential tremendous downside of not agreeing to rezone this property as requested by the owners
 and it's seemingly reflected in the agreement that was entered into in April of 2008. I'm happy to answer any questions on this. Do we want to hear from the applicant or? That's fine. The applicant would like to present to the council and then we'll just ask questions. Thank you Mr. Mayor. My name is Tom Overby. I am an attorney and practicing at 211 North Block and do represent WG Land.
 Excuse my hobbling. I just got out of the hospital two weeks ago, well, a few days ago, let's say, from back surgery. So this is only the second day I've been back at the post trying to work. What I would like to speak to is not the threat, the contract, the demand, but to give you the perspective from WG Land in terms of the history of this
 property and try to explain our view not from a threatening point of view. I'm not a litigation lawyer. I'm not going to speak to whether or not WG Land would sue if appropriate. I hope we don't get to that point, and they certainly hope not to get to that point. I appreciate the outline that Jeremy Pate gave you with respect to the history of the zoning request and the history that Mr. Williams gave you from the perspective of the city.
 I filed yesterday an event timeline, which is fairly short. I don't know how many of you had a chance to see it. It's going to be kind of what I go by in making the comments.
 This land from the 40s until April 10th of 06 was held by family members in trust. Upon the death of some family members, it became appropriate to consider a longer range holding of the property, and that's when this limited partnership was formed, primarily for liability purposes because it's a fairly large tract. And at that point in time,
 Of the 267 acres, and I may be off an acre or two here in my rounding, I was trying to keep it simple, but of the 267 acres at that time, 137 acres were possibly in the city of Johnson, and 130 acres were in the city of Fayetteville. As you may have picked up from the history,
 the city of Fayetteville in 08 was looking at building the so-called abandoned ash extension out of bond money, and because of the nature of the city boundaries at that point, the city officials for Fayetteville were not keen on spending a lot of money putting that road in and bringing development to that area when the city of Johnson would have been a border on the north side of that tract.
 There were discussions about moving the Van Asch down and do a cockamamie thing to have it serve more of Fayetteville property than Johnson, but that's when the discussions or negotiations, if you want to call them, arose with city staff, Mr. Dumas, et cetera, to figure out a solution to this.
 The Memorandum of Understanding was drafted by city officials, and the quid pro quo was simply going to be that
 WG Land Company at that point in time was in the position to utilize the de-annexation statutes of the state of Arkansas, which provided if a city can't provide adequate services for the landowner and if you're adjacent to a city that can provide those services, that you can seek de-annexation from the city you're in to the city you want to be in.
 That we offered from our side, that we would take the risk and expense of filing the DNA station lawsuit against the city of Johnson, but we wanted to know what was going to happen when we did that. Excuse me, a little dry mouth. We were...
 Interested, of course, in the zoning, Bob Whitfield, who is one of the limited partners in WG Land, has previously been a real estate broker. He's developed a lot of land, not in recent years, but back in years ago. And he was the one that signed the memorandum of understanding with the city, and he's the one that discussed it with Mr. Dumas and them. I did not do that. That was done between the city and between Bob Whitfield on behalf of WG Land.
 Bob's perspective in the words commercial zoning in that memorandum of understanding would be the commercial zoning that he had been involved with for all of his years as a real estate broker, which would be the C1, C2, C3, which were in existence at the time in 08. With the...
 memorandum of understanding the city passed the courses mr williams has noted the resolution 7608 and we pursued got ready to pursue our end of the stick now that was april 1 of 08 august 21 of 09 wg land filed its lawsuit for de-annexation uh
 We were joined in by the McClinton interest and I believe by the concrete plant. I know at the end of the day they were involved in it. I did not go back and look up to see who all the name plants were, but I remember counsel for McClinton being involved in the meetings and at the hearings. We struggled then with the City of Johnson at a large expense and without any certainty that
 WG Land would win the de-annexation suit. There were hearings, filings, you know, all the sort of things you go through. And we filed that August of 2009. April of 2010, I, not being a litigator, I like to make peace, not war, looked the situation over and we did some further investigation with the details of our lawsuit and where City of Johnson was sitting with respect to services.
 And beyond our needs for our property, the City of Johnson did not have the capacity to serve other parts of the City of Johnson. If you will imagine for a moment going north from Jupiter Road, the old Van Asch, up all the way up to their main street, there's a large block of property in there.
 The way the City of Johnson was getting its services was partly from the City of Springdale, partly from the City of Fayetteville, and so forth. To service the sewer for our property that was already still in Johnson, which we were asking to come out of Johnson, they were going to have to build a very expensive lift station.
 We met. I met with Kit Williams to see if he would agree with a settlement of some type. We met with the people from the city of Johnson and so forth. And the bottom line was we resolved the lawsuit by...
 not only bringing some land into the city of Fayetteville, but leaving the hillside industrial part that Mr. Williams referred to, the 83 acres, it's actually 82.66, I think, in the city of Johnson. So it was our intent in that settlement that the industrial part that we referred to in the 08 Memorandum of Understanding remain in Johnson and all the rest of the property coming into the city of Fayetteville would be commercial.
 City of Johnson, like I said, got an agreement for utility services for water and sewer to much more than our property. They felt good. City of Fayetteville felt good because they got the 99 acres brought into the City of Fayetteville city limits. Not only our acreage was brought in, but an additional 42 acres owned by McClinton and these other folks. Okay.
 The next element that's been referred to is satisfying the conditions of that memorandum of understanding. I've already explained the industrial land part. Between 2008 and 2010, a decision was made in part of the settlement to leave the industrial part in Johnson. The next issue is that our rezoning is, to commercial, is viable at the point in time that we begin our development. And what is the beginning of development?
 It's not the day that there's a building that you can open the door of and let customers come in. You've obviously, before you build that building, have got to have zoning. You've got to have approval, a large-scale development in this case, and so forth. In October of 2013 was the first time that WG Land entered into any agreements with respect to the development of that property. That's why we didn't ask for zoning before, because we weren't, we were using it as farmland.
 In October 13, we had a potential buyer, had a contract, went through spending several hundred thousand dollars on core drilling, engineering, site evaluation, street planning, all the things that go with the development of that size. That contract terminated. The buyer was not able to obtain equity money and lending money to complete the transaction. So we did...
 Nothing substantial, did a few things, but not the amount of time and money that was spent in 2013 towards development. In August of 2015, WG Land did enter into a brokerage agreement, which from my perspective is another step in the process of developing your property and making it available for billing. Okay.
 September 16th of 15 we filed our zoning application, which is before you now. September 23rd of 15 the Van Asch extension was dedicated to the public.
 So, what I'm trying to give you is a history from W.G. Land's point of view. We've been working on this, trying to work with the cities, Fayetteville, Johnson, and play ball with everybody to go forward with the expected use of the property when the deal was made in 08. We feel that we've done our part, we spent hundreds of thousand dollars and took risk
 with filing the lawsuit that show our intent to fulfill our end and i guess i would simply ask that the city council follow through and approve the zoning okay thank you tom now council what questions you have for kit tom or jeremy um for kit well actually this is probably for bitter for jeremy um we have a number of form-based zones which accommodate commercial zoning is that correct
 We have a number of form-based zones that accommodate commercial uses. Commercial uses, yes. So they accommodate commercial and other options. So it would give the option of commercial, residential. Generally what we call our form-based zones were created, we're looking at our existing
 commercial and residential zones and trying to pick Exact same or better uses in all of those so if you compare c3 to Community services for instance. They're very similar both allow residential uses by right both allow commercial uses by right Z2 allows some very limited residential use by rights primarily commercial and office use And it's more tailored to something like that
 our urban thoroughfare zone or downtown core zone. The first, what we call again, form-based codes were created with the downtown master plan. We've now created additional ones that we use outside primarily our downtown.
 As Mr. Williams mentioned, the downtown form-based codes were created with that master plan. They were utilized outside the downtown primarily around the university, in Walker Park, in Fayette Junction, and they've been utilized along North College as well. Thank you. And then could you clarify what—
 Street standards are is the van ashe extension built you was that the 2008 standards or is it a standard that we've adopted since then? For the street section the street section was built as what we call our principal arterial as a thoroughfare And so it's got the median along the middle to Two lanes on either side it was built with something that the Transportation Committee actually worked out which four members of you all sit on with a bike and
 bike lane essentially separated from pedestrian sidewalks and so that's why there's a raised sidewalk adjacent to the bike lanes to separate some of that traffic because it is part of our trail corridor connection between skull creek trail and clapper creek would it be fair would it be fair to classify that as a street section that we've developed since 2008. yes thank you i thought you had questions i just wanted some clarifications from jeremy thank you
 No real question, just an observation and a comment. We have business people who've made an investment. It's an old family investment. They have expectations. They entered into an agreement drafted by an official of our city. I think it would be a very bad reflection on who we are as a people if we don't stand by that agreement. Not getting into the legalities like Mr. Williams did a very adequate job of explaining to us. I think we need to be people of our word.
 They spent probably hundreds of thousands of dollars, as Mr. Overby explained, deannexing from Johnson, coming into Fayetteville. They want to build a tax base for our city. Just what I said in a previous comment, let's continue to build Fayetteville. And I'm not talking about just freelance everything. We have planning. We have rules. If they can build within our rules, why would we want to stop that?
 The area just east of the subject property is heavily commercial, one of the biggest commercial zones in northwest Arkansas, with the Northwest Arkansas Mall and all of the developments south of the mall. I think this is very logical. A letter from the city of Johnson saying we have an industrial zone just over the line, putting in housing in this area would be inappropriate with industrial zone and Johnson just over the line. These are all points that we need to consider strongly.
 in spite or our own personal feelings about what should be there should not be withstanding. We should put that aside and let the landowners go along with their plans. That's the first point. Second point is we avoid a costly lawsuit.
 Yes, Sarah. How much was the public investment in the Van Esch extension? $4.5 million, I believe. So $4.5 million of public investment. And what was the condition of that road before we built it? There wasn't a road. There was no road. So the public has invested $4.5 million in this area. Thank you. I believe that's correct. They did give us right away, though, through that. Okay.
 So I don't know what that would be worth, but they did give us right away through there to build the road. So they do. Another little history lesson. Even before this agreement was made with the WG Land Company, the city council had passed a resolution saying Van Asch would not be built until the land north of Van Asch that was currently in Johnson would be transferred to the city of Fayetteville. It is only through the help of the WG Land Company in putting pressure on Johnson and causing them litigation costs.
 that Johnson finally came to the table so we could get 99 acres, including the WG land, as well as McClinton and the cement plant, brought into the city of Fayetteville. And so without their help, Johnson was not interested. There were attempts made, and until the litigation costs got too much for Johnson, they were not coming to the table.
 so is it fair to say that had the city of fayetteville not annexed this land that they would not have the degree of infrastructure investment that is enabling this development could you say that again is it would it be fair to say that had the city of fayetteville not annexed this land that johnson would have not made the investment that is making this potential development possible
 That Johnson would not have made? Johnson would not have made this investment in this land. Oh, Johnson could not, obviously. At one point they were saying, well, we'll do a cost share with you. Well, they had no money. They couldn't do a cost share. And so that's when the city council said, we're not building the road until that land comes in.
 And the only way to pry it out of Johnson's hand was because WG Land Company helped us. Now, I think the agreement was fair to Johnson. We supplied sewer for the rest of their city so they would not have to build such an expensive lift station. We agreed to provide fire flow water where feasible.
 So Johnson came out okay, I think, also, but what we did with our citizens, we assured that when we made this $4 million investment in the road, we would own both sides of it and maybe we would make some of that money back through sales tax. It was always a consideration when we were designing what we needed. I went to Jeremy and said, Jeremy, to build a big box store on the north side of Van Asch, how much land do we need to do that?
 And that's where I came up with 1,250 feet north of the road so that we would have enough to build a big box store or a hotel or something like that that would provide the kind of sales tax to help pay for that road.
 But we went ahead and annexed this because we needed to annex that in order to get the citizens' support to make their investment, and that investment is what is creating the value and the developability in this land. Is that correct? That's correct. That road certainly added great value to that land. That's why they were willing. That's why they were willing to do the litigation.
 They were also not required by this agreement, but they voluntarily dedicated a tremendous amount of acreage for Van Ash itself. We did not have to condemn any of the right-of-way from them. They donated that. They dedicated that to the city, which is not true with the next landowner coming forward. We had to actually go through and begin a condemnation. We then settled it, but we paid for the right-of-way from that landowner. WG...
 They donated all that land to us to help us build that road. They have been a good partner for a long time, and I think we need to be a good partner too. Yes, John. There seems to be an implication floating around this room that we, the city, we, the public, add value to land. We put in streets to accommodate traffic flows. We should be doing that without concern.
 who it's benefiting, who it's not. We should be benefiting the public in Fayetteville, getting traffic from point A to point B. And if we need a box around the city of Fayetteville to accomplish that, so be it. I am concerned that we're gonna say all the value of all of our land is brought, I've heard this argument float around the city before, your land only has value because the rest of us are here. So therefore, we have a say in what you can do with your land.
 Development, entrepreneurship, initiative, risk-taking are the hallmarks of our American culture. This is why cities get built. This is why communities get built. This is why there are jobs, because somebody's willing to step out and stick their neck out. I tell people all the time, a businessman is just like a turtle. He doesn't make any progress until he sticks his neck out, or businesswoman, I would add.
 I applaud risk-taking. I applaud initiative. I applaud, whether it be a conservative or a liberal, a Democrat or Republican, I don't care. I applaud those characteristics. That's what's made America great. That's what's made Northwest Arkansas what it is. It's the Sam Waldens, the John Tysons, the J.B. Hunts, the John L. Hunts, the whoever you want to name, who stepped out and took a risk and made something of themselves.
 Let's not stand in the way of progress. Let's give these developers what they need. Let's give them what they're expecting. Let's give them what we agreed to give them. And let's do away with these notions that we, the public, make value. It's risk-taking. Business people of all stripes that make value. Yes, Al? I have a question for Tom, if I could. Sorry. Okay.
 it's all right the doctor says it's good to move well hey then i'm helping you follow doctor's orders um okay so we've talked about this a little bit but um in looking at the map is there a reason specifically for more of the c2 zoning than the c3 on the outer areas um i would have to defer to mr terminella on that i don't pretend to be the the zoning expert
 i i will get he's here i'll be glad to have him that'd be great i'm just i'm specifically interested in the northern portion and i guess i'm specifically most interested in the farthest north portion where jupiter drive goes through and the south east portion that intersects with appleby road good evening mayor the question you have is
 why there isn't any other zoning other than the C2 and C3 proposed? What is the question? I actually said that backwards. The C2 is what I'm looking at. It's actually... North or south of Van Asch? North and south of Van Asch, yeah. And it is northeast, north of Van Asch on this other side, east of the other two parcels. I'm just wondering why C2 on those and not C3?
 Well, in keeping with the spirit of the contract between WG Land and the city of Fayetteville, the zoning that the landowner has requested is C2 and C3. And as far as the percentage of C2 versus C3, there's different use units within those zones. Some allow hospitality, some don't. Some would allow auto dealerships, some wouldn't.
 where C2 would allow it, C3 doesn't. So it was a conscious decision to delineate the property for these two zoning classifications, and that's what we have in front of you tonight.
 I'm looking at the memorandum of understanding and it says that the portion of the property north of Van Asch shall be zoned to an industrial zoning district consistent with its use for warehousing and cold storage. It doesn't mention the south portion. That was at a time when they were contemplating bringing in all of the 267 acres into the city of Fayetteville.
 And as what happened, there was 83 acres basically north of the substation that remained in Johnson. And so that east-west line city boundary got moved from the new Van Asch to 1,250 feet north of there. So the industrial is where it's supposed to be, and the request for the C2 and C3 would fall immediately.
 south and north of the new Van Asch, which is the 187 acres that is in Fayetteville. Is there an attachment to the Memorandum of Understanding that would say that? Because it just says that it's north of Van Asch. There's no attachment to it. Okay, so it's just, really, it's just what's in the Memorandum of Understanding is just what's north of Van Asch? Is that right?
 i'm just trying to as mr williams trying to be clear we're talking about a legal mr williams i want to know yes mr williams pointed out uh the crafting of the agreement the boundary line moved through the negotiations originally it was 267 acres the north the east west line was was was different than what was ultimately agreed upon so uh hopefully that that helps you
 Okay, thank you. I have a follow-up for Jeremy, if I can, Mr. Mayor. Yeah, sure. And Kit. So, Jeremy, thank you, by the way. C2 is somewhat more heavy of a commercial district, right?
 So the differences between C2 and C3 are slight. There are three major commercial uses, or three commercial uses that are allowed in C2 that are not allowed in C3. Those include large commercial recreation sites, adult live entertainment, and transportation, trades, and services. Those are the three major differences. C3 does allow for... Can I ask you, Jeremy, on transportation, goods, and services, that's like car lots? That is anything related to...
 car dealerships, auto dealerships, trades and services such as tractor dealerships and auto service, lube, those types of places. Those would be allowed in C2 but not in C3. And then the other big difference is that C3 has the allowance for multifamily use as a use by right and C2 does not. Okay, so if that's the case, and the memorandum of understanding just says that north of the Van Asch, north of Van Asch,
 would be zoned industrial and would be able to be used for cold storage warehousing, then are we under obligation, I'm not saying I would vote which way or another, but are we under an obligation to rezone the area south of that for industrial use? Not south of that. You're talking about, you're talking about the section two. Well, they've asked for both. You're talking about north of Van Esch, what you're talking about. Right, but it's being requested north and south.
 Right. The southern one is controlled by subsection 3, the third paragraph that the property brought into development, that as the property is brought into development, the portion of the property south of the proposed Van Ash Boulevard extension shall be rezoned to a commercial zoning district.
 So that one is much more clear about what the potential duties are for the city and the city council. Number two, the second paragraph, talks about what's north of the proposed Van Asch Boulevard. And it says it shall be rezoned to an industrial zoning district consistent with its use for warehousing and cold storage. Now this is kind of confusing because obviously the warehousing and cold storage is far up the hill.
 It's no longer just what's north of Van Asch. In fact, it might be north of the old Van Asch, but not the new Van Asch. So as I said, this was not very well drafted and so it makes, this is much more difficult and confusing and would be up to more construction by the court on that particular issue. Mayor, I think Alderman Kenyon had a question.
 Okay, this is referring to the proposed Van Asch, but the current Van Asch is not the proposed Van Asch. Well, actually it is. The proposed Van Asch was going to be drawn in a line just like it eventually was built. So the proposed Van Asch is now the Van Asch. It was proposed back in 2008 because we hadn't got the land from Johnson and we weren't ready to build it until we got the land from Johnson. Now it is the Van Asch.
 If I could ask a question with the permission of his attorney, a question Mr. Terminella, would you give me the right to ask him that since he is a represented party? And Mayor, can I ask Mr. Terminella a question?
 that number two paragraph seems to be inartfully drafted and therefore it's not crystal clear what your rights would be north of Van Asch and of course you're asking for C2 and C3 north of Van Asch. That's what I'm saying. At one point, your clients made a suggestion
 proposal that wasn't all C2 and C3, but unfortunately you presented it to the wrong party, not the party that could actually make the decision, but just an advisory party, and they couldn't give you an answer. I would ask that you talk to your principals again and see if it would be possible that they could make a similar sort of presentation to the city council,
 that probably might go a long way to making sure that this is something that can be resolved at the city council level to everyone's satisfaction and prevent any possibility of problems delay and other issues like that i know that nothing is on the table right now from your clients and i'm not asking you to put anything on the table because you got to talk to them before you do it
 But I would just urge you and your clients to reconsider and maybe instead of offering it to only people that could make recommendations and could never make any decisions, you offer that to the decision makers or policy makers up here with a proposal that would be something
 Might make it much more Agreeable with everybody concerned and and a much happier ending If we can you know? So anyway I just want you to think about that and maybe go and talk with with your clients and see whether anything like that is possible Because I don't think we're making any decisions tonight. So I Would I would hope that you would do that. I would just ask you to do that time. I
 I have visited with Mister Jones about that would don't give me any decision. Yeah, yeah, yeah, thank you. Yeah, no, no worries mayor. Yeah, yes, thank you Mister now what is on this property right now what improvements if any are there. On the acreage South of an ash it's basically a hay meadow. It's been past years it was a cattle operation and.
 in recent years it's been transformed into primarily a brown baling hay operation farm commercial yes north of the property uh more the same uh cattle operation for many years evolved into basically a hay farm hay meadows if you're not familiar if you hadn't been at that way everything that adjoins it is uh most of which is commercial and industrial so
 Everything that would be on its east and west and northern boundaries would be more in line with the commercial and industrial use on the north side of the road. But as far as improvements, we have Van Ash, and south of there we have I-49, and to the east of there we have the rail and Greg Street. So that's kind of how it's bound. Okay. Any other questions? Council? I have a question for Jeremy. Okay.
 are industrial warehousing and cold storage allow permissible in c2 or c3 i don't believe so our warehousing use unit use unit 21 would be either i1 or i2 zones and the same would be for the cold
 So therefore to rezone this C2 or C3 would be inconsistent with the memorandum of understanding requesting that anything north of Van Asch would be zoned for industrial warehousing and cold storage? Is that a fair assumption? I won't speak to the agreement itself, but I can say that
 The uses on the property currently as a farm or not those uses that were annexed There is that use to the north of this property north of? The old van asher jupiter drive. It's it's Named now those uses do exist within the city of Johnson. They do not exist on the property within the city of Fayetteville and
 The kit under strict interpretation of the memorandum of understanding would we not would we be fulfilling that agreement if we zone rezoned that to a zoning District that would not allow for industrial warehousing and cold storage Certainly we would as a request of the landowner You can also look at the landowners letter of March 4th 2008 Where he is much more it's a document and I can say that I
 people's memories or oral statements are not gonna be, probably not even allowed in interpreting a contract, but other documents contemporaneous thereto, if the court finds there's ambiguity, can be looked at. And this letter of March 4th, 2008, which is in my memo, states that, "'As a consideration, we only ask that City of Fayetteville "'bring in the northernmost acreage, "'Princes Hilltop, which covers the underground cavern
 as an industrial zoning classification suitable for warehousing and cold storage. So obviously the request from the owner was at the hilltop, not everything else be brought in. Now when Mr. Dumas drafted this, he didn't express that very well obviously in the agreement,
 But since it is But it it's not Certainly crystal clear one way or the other which is why I hope that the owners might present something That would be more in line With what they've already done at one point to try to come to a middle ground so that this will not be an issue and so we can just get this property rezone fulfill our commitment and
 and watch the development appear, grow out there and the revenue come in. Any other questions? All right, what public comment do we have on this? Aubrey Shepherd, I think you do need to share this with the public some more and get more opinions. I'm sorry. Yeah. Pull it down a little bit. Yes. We want to be able to hear you, Aubrey. Short people. Oh, you don't. Yes, I believe we do need to hear this again, and the public needs a chance to view it better, understand it,
 It's certainly the main thing it does for the city right now, this land, is it protects areas, including the old golf course that's up for or has been rezoned, now has it, for another subdivision down there. The water all goes down off this area and above, and it is wetland that...
 that soaks the water in and prevents flooding down. So every square foot or even square inch of paving you do uphill and upstream means more potential flooding downstream. There's no other way to take the water anywhere. We can't have helicopters carried out or anything like that. So it's important to study it so that not every, you know, if you zone it so that
 there's automatically a right to do something that would be so environmentally unsound that you'd know it was wrong when you approved it, then we'd be sorry. So there needs to be better study of the actual land, actual soil, where the water flows there, how much of it soaks in during a flooding period such as we just had, because you can see it in neighborhoods all over the city.
 in many places where there's been development upstream, and now there's more flooding for the people and the property downstream. You say you want to give people a right to do what they want with their property, but that just couldn't be done worldwide. And we need proper zoning to fit the conditions of the land to protect the future of our planet and our property. Thank you. Thank you, Aubrey. Thank you.
 I'm Gerald Jones, I represent WG Land. And I'd clarify one or two points that came up on it. Back in the 50s and 60s, they used coal storage. As you know, Zero Mountain's been there for 100 years, I guess. A lot, anyway. And now, since that time, above-ground storage is much cheaper than to go underground. There's 40 acres of water...
 cave under that land up there. So it's not going to be used for a building or anything else, but it may be used for a light industrial or something like that on it, but it can't be used for coal storage anymore. Any questions you have? I missed Zero Mountain, so it's kind of gone at this point really, huh? Yeah, it's all, they're going all above ground in northwest Arkansas and Fort Smith too. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Lorraine O'Neill, 3001 West Weddington, Department 82. I think that any time a large operation such as this potentially is going to be chooses the city to make their base of operations, whatever they're planning, it can only mean good things for the city. It can mean potential jobs.
 at least for the construction phase of it, and it can mean potential jobs after the construction phase is over for those people who will be working in that area. And anything that the city can do to encourage them to develop this property can only be a good thing. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening, Mayor, Councilors. I'm Pam Jones, resident of Fayetteville, and related to the property owners.
 I just want to remind you guys a little bit of the history where Fulbright Expressway went through. It actually intersected the farm. It separated it out. And that land was, that right-of-way was given for the benefit of the citizens of Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas. And I think it's been over 40 years now since that was, and I think we can all agree that that has highly benefited our citizens.
 in so many ways, connecting Fayetteville and the infrastructure. And then again, the loop going north also came into the farm, which also benefited the city of Fayetteville, its citizens, and northwest Arkansas. I think I'm pretty correct in this. There's probably not ever been any other landowner in Fayetteville to donate this much right-of-way land for roads.
 And there's been other road, right away that has been given to the city from this family. And I think I'd like to remind everybody that it's going to be good. It's going to be really great for Fayetteville. There have been many opportunities through the years to sell that land for industrial use.
 which it was zoned for and the family chose not to they wanted to do something really positive for the city of fable and industrial use is definitely needed
 however they feel like this is a higher and better use for the property so um there's going to be lots of steps for any developer to go through this is just the beginning steps and i think that our city planning department and you all as a body have many opportunities to have great insight and input and i think it's going to be really positive for the city of fayetteville and
 I think it's going to be a tremendous opportunity for our community and for this region. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. And so, you want to hold it? Okay. All right. Hold it on the first reading, and we'll look at it again in two weeks. All right. No. I thought you had a... All right. Let's move on to number seven.
 In order to rezone that property, describe rezoning petition RZN 15-5209 for approximately 18.34 acres located at the northeast corner of McGuire Street and Van Ash Drive from RA Residential Agricultural to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and C3 Central Commercial. This is also an appeal.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the following described property from R.A. Residential Agricultural to C2. Thoroughfare Commercial and C3. Central Commercial, as shown on exhibits A and B attached to the agenda item.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 and Section 3, severability. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby determines that if the Johnson City Council determines that a portion of the rezoned acreage is not, quote, compatible with the zoned land uses of the adjoining lands, unquote, in Johnson, pursuant to its power under ACA 1456306,
 and refuses to agree to a portion of this rezoning, then all other unaffected property within this petition, RZN 15-5214, shall still be immediately rezoned pursuant to Section 1. Chairman.
 this property is located directly adjacent to the previous proposal it is direct due west of the proposal jupiter drive actually bisects both parcels and it is north of van ashe drive it consists of approximately 18.3 acres located at mcguire avenue and jupiter drive bounded on the south property as i mentioned by the recent construction of van ashe drive connecting to h12
 properties currently zoned are a residential agricultural as for the rest of the as are the rest of the properties and the applicant is requesting to rezone them to zones of the southern portion of 10.6 acres would be c to thoroughfare commercial and the northern almost acres of the c3 central commercial. I'm not going to give the reason is necessary to support future development of the site.
 As I mentioned in the previous item, this particular property is also within 1,000 feet of the City of Johnson, so the City of Johnson will have to review this application as well. That's the need for the severability clause that Mr. Williams read. And the same comments were made for this particular item as well from the City of Johnson's mayor, and as I mentioned, the City of Johnson City Council ultimately makes that decision, and the applicant will need to present that to them.
 As Mr. Williams mentioned earlier, this particular rezoning request is not subject to a previous agreement with the city council. So we've treated this just like any other rezoning request. The city's land use plan in this area designates it as a city neighborhood area on the future land use map. We agree that non-residential commercial uses and residential uses could be appropriate in this area. The site is proposed to be rezoned to C2, prescribes an auto-oriented or suburban development
 pattern rather than traditional town form, which is one of the primary goals of our city plan documents. Therefore, staff did not recommend approval of this rezoning. The Planning Commission also recommended denial with a vote of nine to zero. Okay. Is the applicant here for this one? Good evening, Mayor. Again, Tom Terminella, 24 East Meadow here in Fayetteville here representing Mr. McClinton's property.
 Not sure I can add much to it. The property on its western boundary is primarily industrial. You want to pull that back up, Jeremy? The property to the north of there has been permitted for a industrial use as well. We feel that the property needs to dovetail in with the previous request. I'm not sure if anybody has any questions or any comments. I'm here to field them, but it's pretty much more the same of what we're requesting.
 So the cross. Any questions from Mr. Monello on this? All right. Any public comment on this one? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Mayor? Yes, John. What is the current zoning, Jeremy? It's currently zoned RA residential agricultural. And is there a lot of agricultural in this area? There is. There is? Yes. Such as? Due east, there's almost 200 acres of agricultural land, as Mr. Monello said.
 production? Yes, that's correct. Okay. But you realize a hay pasture could be an investment property also, and we're just cutting hay to generate a little income while we wait for the market conditions to change. You realize that? So it may not be really agricultural, although it appears to be on the surface, literally and figuratively.
 It's really investment property. I think you'd have to ask Mr. Overby or Mr. Terminello what their uses of the property are currently. I think it's very important to them. I think every property I own is for sale at some price. It's investment. Yes, Alan. I have a question for Jeremy as well. Sure. Jeremy, just directly west of these two parcels, there is a commercial parcel that's outside the city limit. Do you know what that commercial area would equate to in terms of our zoning categories?
 equivalent to? I don't. There are definitely some contractor type businesses in the area. I would imagine it's going to be a C2 type of zone or a C1 type of zone, possibly even I1, depending upon if there's warehousing.
 do north of van asch drive along the north side there's certainly some industrial type light industrial type uses but also some commercial uses there's also a neighborhood directly to the north as well so there's quite a few uses in the city of johnson in that location thank you so what are you all going to do sarah um i can't support this request um
 because I do believe that the staff and Planning Commission were correct in their recommendations in denying this request. You know, when the public invested the $4.5 million in this infrastructure that created the value in this land, I feel like by doing that, we become stakeholders in the development of the property. And the public has also given us a mandate, our 2030 city plan, with specific goals and guiding principles
 And this proposal is contrary to all of those 2030 city plan goals. So I just don't see any way to support this appeal. Thank you.
 Okay, I would ask the City Council to run these two rezonings together because obviously they're joining each other and and how what you decide On the first zoning could actually have some effect compatibility wise on the second one So I would ask that you not leapfrog one over the other
 Okay, so he's holding on the first one I'll hold on the person but let me state. I don't think it's inconsistent with our goals at all I will grow as a livable transportation network. We built then asked for transportation It's changed some values in that area We should allow the zoning to keep pace with that new uses of the land in that area we will assemble an enduring green network and
 It's very green right now and we can put as much green restrictions we want to on their development. They can have flower boxes or trees or whatever you want. I don't see it as inconsistent with our goals at all. Does somebody say that? Okay. All right, I assume we're going to hold this on the first reading then. All right. Well, that concludes our business for the evening. What announcements do we have?
 Susan. Mayor, I have a few announcements for the public who might be watching. If you haven't been out to the lights of the Ozarks on the beautiful square, it's time to come enjoy the Christmas season. The lights of the Ozarks will run until the end of the year. We have a few announcements about...
 Let's see, we have mulch distribution. We have an excess supply of mulch, so Fayetteville residents can receive free mulch during the month of December or until supplies are exhausted. Our mulch facility is at 1708 South Armstrong Avenue. You can see the website for more information. The 9th Annual Senior Giving Tree will be held December 9th at the Fayetteville Senior Activity and Wellness Center.
 This event is led by the Community Resources Division and is aimed at giving back to local seniors in our community. All are encouraged to come and lend a hand and spread cheer, seeking gift donations to be distributed to homebound seniors through Meals on Wheels programs. So that information will also be on their Facebook page, Community Resources Facebook page. And I think that's it. Thank you. Okay. What other announcements have we got? Anything? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.