I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of December 7th, 2021. Kara, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Jones? Yes, here. Kenyon? Here. Scroggins? Present. Fudge? Here. Kirk? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. Before we get started tonight, I do have one announcement to make. Our city council meeting and the business of our city council meeting is not completed by 9.30 p.m.
 Tonight, we're going to recess between 9.30 and 9.50 p.m. to join the Federal Police Department in a last call honoring Officer Stephen Carr, whose death was at 9.41 p.m. on December 7, 2019. So we will be having a recess to go down there and be with the Federal Police Department. Okay, the first order of business after that announcement we have,
 the UCI Bike Friendly Designation Award presentation. Molly, I believe you have this one.
 I do, yes sir, thank you. Back in October, I had the honor of traveling to Ostend, Denmark, to accept the UCI Bike City label on behalf of the city of Fayetteville and Experience Fayetteville. This is an award that is given to cities around the world. Since it began, only 20 cities have received this designation. Fayetteville is the only one in the United States and one of only two in North America.
 So also being honored in 2021 was Flanders, Belgium, Sicaria, Turkey, Val di Sole, Italy, Wollongong, Australia, and Abu Dhabi in the UAE. This is given to cities that not only host major UCI cycling events, but also cities that have shown a track record in investing in cycling and pedestrian-friendly infrastructure and community cycling activities.
 And though Experience Fayetteville applied for this designation, we understand that it is the work of you, Mr. Mayor, of this council, of previous councils, and of the city staff that helped us achieve this. So I wanted to bring this back to you and to the city and say thank you.
 Okay. Great honor. Thank you, my pleasure. Thank you. Thank you for having me. Okay, then number two, we have an award recognizing former A&P Commissioner Robert Rhodes, and that will be presented by Councilmember Sarah Bunch. Sarah, yes. Let's get my glasses on here so I can see.
 Tonight we want to offer this award to Robert Rhodes. Many of you may know Robert from the community, but if you don't, he exemplifies the term public servant. He has served on the city council in Fayetteville, but it is in his capacity as a longstanding member of the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotion Committee that we honor him tonight.
 He first began on this committee, I believe it was 2006, and served several terms with a cumulative of 10 years. During this time on the commission, our city saw unprecedented growth and a global pandemic. Robert Rhodes was always a vital member and served a vital role on that commission. His stewardship and leadership.
 shepherding the Commission forward through these difficult times. His wisdom and guidance have proved invaluable in helping set us on a pathway for years to come. So tonight I'd like to honor Robert Rhodes, the plaque reads, in appreciation of your long-standing service to the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotion Commission. Thank you.
 I really appreciate getting that from Ward 3, Ms. Bunch. Thank you so very much. Really quick, all I would say is that my foster parent, my foster dad, and to some degree my mom as well, always said, you know, you take a lot out of a community.
 you ought to put something back in it and my foster parents volunteered for a lot of things they were on commissions and what have you and and so I tried to follow that but you know with nine kids between my wife and I that have got that have grown up in this community I think I got a lot more to do to catch up so I'll see what else I can find to do okay thank you all very much
 Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the monthly finance report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report's going to be through the month of October, so that's the 10th month of the fiscal year. We're into the final quarter, two months left to go.
 Again, our revenue was strong for October. Year-to-date, sales tax were up 15.5% compared to the prior year. Franchise fees were up in the 10% range. Beverage taxes are up, and charges for services, which are things such as parks,
 type of group activities, etc. So all of those were up. Court fees were down 75% of what the prior year was. Investments are down. Investments, of course, investment income is very low right now because of the large amount of money in the system. So all in all,
 We're up 12% in the general fund for the year, so we're certainly very happy about this. Again, internet sales were strong. Retail was strong for the period. As far as the street fund is concerned, we're looking at the street fund. It's a very good year for the street fund. It's up 28% at this point in time. Now, that's driven primarily by motor fuel tax turn back from the state based on our population.
 It is also based on
 like I said, not only motor fuel tax, but also on the half cent state sales tax, which was approved by the voter for streets. Because of that strong showing, we're able to increase sidewalks in the budget for the 2022 recommendation, extra million dollars in the sidewalks, so that was good news in that vein, and streets are going very strong at this point in time, the street fund.
 As far as the parking fund, the parking fund is starting to come back a little bit. It's up 7% compared to last year, so we're starting to see more activity in the downtown and Dixon Street area, which is good for us. We're starting to see some shows coming back, so that's good news for us. We certainly hope that continues moving forward. Parks development is up.
 1 third, up 33%, compared to the prior year. Hotel, motel, restaurant taxes have been up. And they're coming back pretty well compared to 2020 also. Water and sewer. Water and sewer billings are up water 12% compared to last year at this point in time. Sewer up roughly 10% at this point in time. So there's strong usage for water at this point in time.
 Recycling and trash collections, remember most of the year we're down a little bit compared to budget. We're up 2% at this point in time. Again, residential has been strong all year in recycling and trash collection. Commercial has been a little soft. It's starting to come back. We're starting to see business activity pick up.
 As far as the airport is concerned, the airport's having a very, very strong year as far as fuel sales are up 30% on average.
 Excuse me 30% in operations operations as a command of 30% compared to last year and fuel sales are up roughly 41% compared to last year so again the airports going very strong remember We've got a lot of capital improvement going on the airport certainly one of the key things is over six million dollars for resurfacing Of the runway which will be going on next year so at this point in time the airport is doing
 Doing well as far as revenue is concerned all in all overall The budget is very strong. It's been a strong year for the city of Fayetteville. We factored that into the 2022 budget It has been presented for for its appropriation next year contingent on the approval of the 2022 budget I'll be happy to answer any questions at this point. What questions do we have for Paul on the budget? I
 I'm sorry, I didn't get that the estimate for which. The estimate for which. The estimate for which. The estimate for which. The estimate for which. The estimate for which. The estimate for which. The estimate for which. The estimate for which. The estimate for which. The estimate for which.
 For the current budget for this year, are we, I think we're ahead. And I just wondered if you could share that number, how much in excess we are of our budget for 2021. Well, as far as sales tax, we talked about we're in excess of $6 million. As far as sales tax is concerned, we're up a little more than that. But we're very strong and our budget estimates look very strong for next year. I hope that answers your question, Theresa. Yes, it did. Thank you very much.
 Anything else? All right. Thank you, Paul. All right. Next order of business we have now is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the November 16, 2021 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve Federal Police Department Policy 16.2.3, temporary light duty. Thank you.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $100,000 to pay for additional fencing, lighting, and other security improvements to the city-owned parking lots at the corner of Block Avenue and Rock Street.
 Number four, resolution to approve amendment number one to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Garver LLC. Any amount of $976,235 for additional design services associated with the South School Avenue and College Avenue Corridor Improvements Project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 transportation bond project.
 Number five, a resolution to approve a contract with Community Access Television Incorporated, DBA, Your Media, in the amount of $198,500 for the provision of public access television services and the operation of the public access television channel through 2022, contention on approval of the 2022 Annual City Budget and Work Program.
 Number six, a resolution to authorize the acceptance of an airport rescue grant from the Federal Aviation Administration in the amount of $59,000 and to approve the budget adjustment.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of electrical, lighting, and data communications and security products and related product services and solutions from Graybar Electric Company Incorporated pursuant to Omnia Partners' cooperative purchasing contract on an as-needed basis through January 31, 2023 and any future renewal periods.
 8. A resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $140,000 for water distribution, construction materials, and water-sewer connections construction materials for the remainder of 2021. 9. A resolution to award bid number 21-77 an authorized contract with Goins, TX.
 Enterprises incorporated in the amount of $780,000 for construction of approximately 2,600 feet of 8-inch and smaller water lines for the South Garland Avenue Water Line Replacement Project to approve the project contingency in the amount of $157,600 and to approve the budget adjustment.
 10. A resolution to approve the purchase of a Vakcon Titan dual engine sewer cleaning truck from Vakcon Inc. in the amount of $499,784 plus any applicable delivery charges pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council cooperative purchasing contract for use by the Utilities Department. 11. A resolution to approve the purchase of a Ford F-550 box truck from Vakcon Inc. in the amount of $499,784 plus any applicable delivery charges pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council cooperative purchasing contract for use by the Utilities Department.
 with sewer inspection camera from hughes incorporated in the amount of two hundred eighty seven thousand nine hundred seventy dollars plus any applicable delivery charges pursuant to a houston galveston area council co-operative purchasing contract for use by the utilities department and to approve budget
 Number 12, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $14,681 recognizing donation revenue from citizens and local businesses to the Parks and Recreation Department. Number 13, a resolution to approve an agreement with
 for easements with Lushbaum Holdings LLC, as well as parking and access sidewalk contemporary construction and grading easements for property located at 418 West Meadow Street associated with the West Avenue Streetscapes Improvement Project. Number 14, a resolution to approve a memorandum of understanding with the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District in the amount of $24,000 for the collection of household hazardous wastes
 waste in federal in 2022. Number 15, a resolution to authorize an application for a certified local government grant in the amount of $60,000 through the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program to complete a community-wide preservation plan and a cultural resource survey of the University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhoods. Number 16,
 a resolution pursuant to 166.04 of the Federal Unified Development Code to approve the dedication of a reduced amount of right-of-way for the internal residential link streets associated with Phases 3 and 4
 of the magnolia park subdivision by approximately two feet to provide for five foot sidewalks to match previous phases of the subdivision and to reduce the master street plan right-of-way dedication for these internal streets number seventeen a resolution to express the intent of the city council sell approximately 0.25 acres of city
 property located at 900 South Hollywood Avenue. And number 18, a resolution pursuant to the Arkansas Code annotated 14-56-306B agreeing to change to a change in zoning from A1A agricultural to HC highway corridor and LI, light industrial property
 located in the city of Johnson that adjoins the city of Federal. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Mr. Mayor? Yes. I'll make a motion we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Care which please call the vote. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Harris?
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herk? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 Going to unfinished business number one, an ordinance to annex that property, describe an annexation petition, ANX 21-003, submitted by Rosh Coleman Homes, incorporated the property located south of 2936 South Black Oak Road, containing approximately 101.77 acres. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 In ordinance to annex that property, describe an annexation petition ANX 21-003 submitted by Roush Coleman Homes, Inc. for property located south of 2936 South Black Oak Road containing approximately 101.77 acres. Jonathan, what do we have on this? Anything new? No.
 Thank you, Mayor Johnson-Kirth with Development Services. I do have a few items to update the council on. Go into those briefly, and then I'm happy to take questions. Before jumping into the updates, and as just a real quick brief reminder, this property is on the southeast corner of Fayetteville. You can see it here in red. The property is currently undeveloped. It's about a 50-50 mix of uses, pasture land and existing tree canopy.
 The proposal before the council is to rezone the overall property into what will largely be a residential subdivision, but there'll be three components to it.
 an area for potential office or light retail uses. Planning Area 2, which is what you see on your screen right now, has the potential for up to 250 detached homes. And Planning Area 3 represents Parkland, which will be the eastern portion of the property, which is just off the right-hand side of your screen here. As for updates, several items came up at the last City Council meeting and at the tour that was held last Friday.
 The first of which was a question about the trail connection. For those of you familiar with the active transportation plan, there is an intended connection of the St. Paul Trail through our Commerce Park across the West Fork of the White River and on eastward to Dead Horse Mountain Road, which connects all of this area of Fayetteville. There is east of Dead Horse Mountain with the larger city trail network. This connection is going to be, is currently scheduled for the third phase of the bond program, which would put it at 2026.
 A second item that came up was just the impact of the sanitary sewer impacts that this project could potentially have on the city's wired network. If you'll recall, I did note at the last meeting that there's not sanitary sewer immediately accessible to the property, which is not atypical for land outside of the city.
 When I consulted with the utility department, they brought a pair of issues. One was that it's unfortunately not a straightforward question to answer without a lot of detail and a lot of analysis. There are options for it to be served by gravity, which is the city's preference because it's non-mechanical, but there is the potential that it could be.
 required to go through a lift station which is not the preference because it's mechanical and as the council sees on many of your genders those do have costs associated with maintenance of them additionally there are line pump and station capacities downstream from the site that the utility department doesn't have sufficient answers to now as far as this impact of this development would go
 So there's a couple images on your screen here. On the left-hand side, you see these arrows which indicate the topography or the property we're looking at right now. The arrows indicate where it is sloping, which is away from Black Oak Road. This makes it difficult to achieve gravity flow, obviously, unless you can get a line buried deep enough to get it back to a sewer main.
 which is there is one further northwest on Black Oak Road. And that's where you can see option number one, which is listed here, which is possible that would have to be a lift station on order to get sanitary sewer up to that connection here and then onward to where it would connect to the east side plant. Alternative number two is there are a series of sanitary lines through the city's property, which is where the fire department's training facility is.
 And there's a lot more potential for the lines to connect by gravity there. But again, there's some question about whether there'd be some capacity. Superior Industries in particular is not currently operating. So the utility department's not certain what kind of impact any future user will have on that.
 So ultimately the utility department's recommendation is that when a development is submitted here, that they provide an addendum or additional study for FTN, which is the city's sanitary sewer consultant to evaluate what upgrades, if any, would be necessary to make that connection. So unfortunately there's not a perfectly clear answer on this one, but given where it is in the city, that does appear that there are at least two options.
 that could be investigated. As for the third item, there was a question about the parkland that's being proposed with this project and differentiating between
 what is required versus what may be donated. When it comes down to what the applicant is proposing, which is 250 detached homes, using the city's parkland dedication ratio, approximately five acres of parkland dedication would be required. Beyond that is what the applicant proposes as donation, which totals about 28 acres, which altogether equals about a third of the overall 100 acre property.
 The last item, and this is something that came up during the tour on Friday, was that an archaeological survey had been performed on this property in the mid-2000s when the, I believe it was the Fayetteville Economic Development Group was considering the property for acquisition.
 I was able to contact the state's archeological survey. They did share that the survey was not currently available for public release. There are some standards that whether these can or cannot be released to the public, it's based on the property owner. Apparently, these are exempted from a lot of the standards council's probably used to seeing for public documents and subject to Freedom of Information Act.
 For what it is worth, I did hear from the state archaeologist that there were two sites on this property that were identified in that survey. One was towards the southwestern portion of the site but did not have any significance to it from their determination. So that was part of the phase one survey. There was a portion of the site further east, which is in the area proposed for parkland,
 which the survey did indicate may merit a, what would be called a phase two archeological survey, which is in other words, it's a, could benefit from additional investigation. And with that, and as a brief reminder, staff is recommending approval of both the annexation and the associated planned zoning district. The planning commission largely agreed by a vote of eight to zero, eight to one, excuse me. And again, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you.
 Do you have an applicant here? Thank you, Mayor. I apologize. I believe Jesse Fulcher is there in person.
 Go ahead, Jesse. Thank you, Mayor, Council. Thank you, staff, for that information. We did speak about this a few weeks ago, so I don't need to go into a great bunch of detail. But just to address a few comments by staff regarding the archaeological survey, something that we spoke about Friday on site. It was new information to everybody. But we were luckily able to get to the bottom of it. Essentially, they found, as Mr. Kurth mentioned, two areas of some remnant.
 lack of a better term, arrowhead tool type items in the fields and in the woods. Those are documented in the survey. Ultimately what it says is that
 The activities that is the project in two thousand and six that was proposed on the site could move forward as long as they didn't disturb those areas. And so we've we've looked at our areas of disturbance and these two sites are well to the east of where we're developing. Uh, for the counselors that were on our tour on Friday, approximately where we stood to look down towards the white river in the park area.
 we were looking towards one of those sites. So that's how far they are east of our developed site. So regardless, we're not going to get into those areas and we'll certainly make sure that those remain in the Parkland area. Regarding sewer, our engineers already analyzed the sewer system. We will be utilizing gravity sewer and running north and east as staff said on those slides. We'll certainly do a downstream capacity to make sure that there's no issues there, but no plans for a lift station on our side.
 And I think just final couple words. This was a very deliberate design on this project We did not simply put together some streets and sidewalks and and throw them down on a site plan and and In hopes of avoiding the floodplain and leaving a small area for for a park It was probably five six or seven iterations of this plan We met with planning staff first and then we brought up the matter with the parks department sat down with them and they really kind of clued us in on how they wanted to see the parkland area and
 dedicated to the city, the additional donated land. The Parks, Recreation, and Advisory Board also reviewed this, voted unanimously to accept this parkland because it's not only the preservation of this riparian area along the White River, but also provides a great field space for an active park. It'll provide opportunities for soft surface walking trails, an opportunity to connect to the St. Paul Trail to the north that we constructed in 2026.
 But it's also a larger part of a larger linear park system that runs north along the White River and then turns west along Town Branch that takes you all the way back to Morningside Drive. So it's a much larger piece of the parks and trails system.
 And again, approximately 50 acres total of green space on the site. And as I tried to explain to the counselors that were on the tour on Friday, the stream that runs across the site was one of the first things that we we located. And so the first row of homes.
 faces that stream you know that's a that's a feature that we really wanted to protect there's another two stream channels in the north property line the entire north property line is is a giant fence row of massive trees again purposefully left that as a massive barrier not only to preserve those areas to provide a buffer between this property and the property to the north so again this was a very deliberate plan really looking at
 What features do we need to preserve and how do we work this project around them? We'd have preferred not to cross the stream at all, but unfortunately fire code requires us to provide some additional connections So we ended up with two connections there But really it was about preserving the best features of this site And providing a massive amount of green space and that's really what city plan 2040 points is to do if we're going to develop a site with
 unique environmental features as this we should develop in a conservation style subdivision. So that's really been our approach from the beginning. I think the only real negative comments I've heard from Planning Commission up through City Council is maybe this isn't infill and I've stood here I think four times now in front of two different boards and said you're right it's not infill. Not every project can be infill and infill doesn't provide everything that we need in ways of housing in the city of Fayetteville. It provides
 Few forms of housing typically it's a very expensive single-family housing or it's multifamily and those are great That's part of the mix of housing that we need in the city of Fayetteville, but that can't be the only recipe given the demands
 Numerically what we need to have built in the city of Fayetteville to meet the need, but also just with the people that live here and the people that are moving here want they want to see the full recipe of housing type styles and price points. And so what we're trying to provide here is one of those we think is a really important one as we tend to provide some of the best value.
 in home pricing that's developed in the city of Fayetteville, in really northwest Arkansas these days. So we're very proud of that. As I said before, our homes will unfortunately be more expensive than they've been in some of our other projects in the nearby areas, but will be as affordable as we can build homes at this point in time. So we really appreciate the council's support with this project. As staff mentioned, staff's been supportive of this project. The Planning Commission's been supportive of this project, and we're hoping the council will as well. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff on this? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everyone gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into a segment of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address.
 those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the council chamber after that susan who do we have on zoom for this no one has raised their hand on zoom okay is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address the council
 Good evening, Mayor, councillors. My name is Melissa Lee. I'm an executive broker and attorney with NWA Real Estate Solutions. I represent the southern sellers of the 51.2 acres. The only thing I would like to say is thank you guys for your time tonight. And I just want to reemphasize the need for affordable housing in your town.
 We currently have 13 active listings that are $275,000 or less, three bedroom, two bath. And of those 13, six of them are condominiums, one of them is a townhouse, and only six of them are homes. So you're really very, very low inventory. Just as an example for the other Roush Cohen developments, one that's very near the current
 item that's up for your consideration is Park Meadows. It's about one and a half miles away from this present project. Their average homes are between 1,125 square feet up to about 2,000 square feet and those the average price of those are $213,000 so certainly in the
 a much more affordable range. We are seeing prices going up due to the pandemic and due to inventory issues with materials, but Roush Coleman does keep their prices as affordable as it pretty much gets. Again, this location is only 2.71 miles from where we're sitting and standing right now. So it's not very far from town center.
 subject to your questions. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening ladies and gentlemen my name is Teresa Pockriss and I represent the trustee of the southern part of it and I'm not going to first of all let me thank you for allowing me to speak this evening. I'm going to address the proposed annexation and the rezoning at the same time so you won't have to hear from me twice tonight.
 And I'm not going to repeat everything I said on November the 16th, but I would like to reiterate and reassert that Fayetteville does need affordable housing. There is no denying that fact. And approving the annexation and rezoning this 110 acres will allow such housing to be built in Fayetteville, someplace other than on the west side of the city.
 We would appreciate your consideration and approval of both of these measures. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is an ordinance. It is on the second reading. So what discussion or action would the Council like to take tonight?
 I have some comments, Mayor. I just want to point out or thank the applicant, Ann, and Jonathan for the tour on Friday.
 That was a great day to be out there. We got a chance to really walk over and see with Jesse exactly where the houses were going to go and the natural landscape and features. It did not seem to me that there were any prairie mounds out there, and I understand that.
 There have not been any endangered species or rare plants or anything like that discovered in that area. I appreciate the summary of the archaeological report. That gives me a lot more comfort that there was a survey conducted and some sites found, but not in the area where they're going to build or their proposed building.
 I found that the preservation of the approximately 30 acres out there that will link up
 with the park land is really wonderful because that will help preserve the West Fork of the White River. And the city will own that. That'll be a great connectivity to already city-owned park land. And because of those things, even though it had a very low infill score, I'll be supporting annexation of this land and also of the proposed development.
 the applicant took the natural features and landscape into consideration when they were designing that. And I certainly appreciate that and want to encourage other developers to do the same thing. So thank you. Those are my comments. Okay. This is on the second reading. What other discussion or action items would the council like to take or do? So do you all just want to hold it on the second reading or?
 Well, I I moved to suspend the rules in advance it to the 3rd and final reading. If there's no other discussion, sorry. Thank you. Second, OK, we have a motion second to move to the 3rd and final read. Can we please cover? Hertzberg yes, Jones yes, Kenyon yes, Scroggins yes, Bench yes, Kirk yes.
 In order to annex that property, describe an annexation petition, ANX 21-003, submitted by Roush Coleman Homes, Inc., for property located south of 2936 South Black Oak Road, containing approximately 101.77 acres. What final comments do we have on the council on this? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bench? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Okay, number two, an ordinance to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled RPCD 2021-004 for approximately 101.77 acres located south of 2936 South Black Oak Road to allow the development of 2.2 acres for commercial and multifamily residential uses and 97.8 acres for single family to four.
 family residential uses and and parkland open space. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second? We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 in order to approve a residential planned zoning district entitled rpzd 2021-004 for approximately 101.77 acres located south of 2936 south black oak road to allow the development of 2.2 acres for commercial and multi-family residential uses and 97.8 acres for single family to four family residential uses and parkland and open space okay jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. I don't have anything additional to add on this particular item. I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Otherwise, I believe Jesse Poulter is also the representative for this request as well. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you, Mayor. I've said everything I need to. I appreciate it. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the staff of the applicant on this residential plan zoning district?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everyone gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in the council chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan?
 No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Who would like to address us inside the council chambers from the public? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is on the second reading. This is an ordinance. What action items or what discussion would the council like to have? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I second that. Thank you.
 We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Dirck? Yes.
 an ordinance approved residential plan zoning district entitled rpzd 20-2021-004 for approximately 101.77 acres located south of 2936 south black oak road to allow the development of 2.2 acres for commercial and multi-family residential uses and 97.8 acres for single family to four family residential uses and parkland on open space okay what final comments do we have in the council on
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, a resolution to adopt the 2022 Annual Budget and Work Program. Paul? Yes.
 This again is the budget. We had an expanded work session on November 13. We've discussed the primary points of this budget before, but I'll just hit a couple of them. Part of the key points of this budget...
 is the operating budget for 2022. It does not include bond carryover money that is previously appropriated in this year, which will carry over later. Also, CIP projects that are incompleted. When those come on board, that'll push the budget up to pretty close to $400 million. However, this operating budget is $190.7 million at this point in time. It's up $19 million compared to last year.
 Biggest reasons it's up $19 million. $7 million is in personnel and personnel-associated costs. Remember, we did not have a salary increase in 2020, so we had two increases in 2021. Also, we have a retention program that includes, for police, we want to keep competitive with the rest of the region, also the rest of the country for police. Police recruitment is a difficult issue right now.
 It also includes 24.3 positions. We put on new positions. We're able to afford them that we had been considering for quite a while. Five of those new positions are in police, two for trail patrol, four additional officers in fire, 5.3 additional people in parks. We're expanding parks. We need more people to help maintain parks.
 Transportation, three additional people in transportation. Again, we're expanding. We're building new highways. Remember, we've taken on the maintenance. For example, College Avenue, we've got to maintain that. We've got to maintain a right of way. So we're asking for additional people in transportation. Water and sewer, two additional people. One in trash and recycling that was anticipated in a rate study, one in airport, one custodian, which will be necessary once we open a new police facility.
 one in engineering, one in public safety, and one for a new program, which is the Director of Arts and Culture that the City Council brought forward and discussed the need for the last couple of years. We feel at this point in time it's appropriate to move forward in that endeavor. We feel it's affordable at this point in time, so those are the high points of the operations.
 We're also increasing some of the capital programs that we are anticipating for the year. We're able to put forward an extra $1 million for sidewalks. Sidewalks are very popular. We hear a lot of indications from the city to expand our sidewalk program, as we do from the council. And so we're addressing that particular need
 We're also looking at increasing the street overlay program to the $2 million, which should be our target based on a study two years ago. We were unable to afford the total $2 million when we put the plan together. Didn't look like we'd be able to afford it, but now we feel we can do so.
 Also gets our trail program up to a million and a half which we try to peg that program remember that trail program Is very good because we've leveraged that money against grants and so we expand the trail program with city money We got grants to move those trail programs forward So that's key objective the key objective in this particular budget the high point are our
 24.3% position to meet the needs that we have for expanded workflow. Another thing we've tried to do and we're addressing is a competitive wage for wage earners heading forward into the new year. And we have a salary survey that's going on right now. It will be completed in the first quarter of next year.
 We've also put roughly a million dollars into the salary contingency of the general fund. We're hoping that that goes a long way against funding that salary survey when we see the results of that. But those are more or less the high points of the 2022 budget. We had a discussion about the YRCC at the agenda session where we talked about funding to it, what we're trying to do to expand YRCC.
 remember we had recommended 0.6 ftes to expand the programs there we've got a million dollars in the future and capital improvements to expand the facility itself and we've also we've always considered expanding that program and you heard uh you heard allison from parks give us a uh give us a rundown on yrcc with that i'll be happy to answer any questions on the 2022 budget request
 Okay, what questions do we have for the council for Paul on this? Or if you would like to make amendments, this would probably be the appropriate time to do that. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I'd like to make a budget amendment, or amendment to the budget.
 Three weeks ago, you all graciously, my fellow city council colleagues, passed the Climate Resiliency Master Plan. And there were two components in there. The first one was $100,000 to complete a master plan if needed. The second component was to develop a capital improvement fund for the green space project.
 acquisition or conservation easement acquisition fund that is not currently in the proposed um 2022 budget and i'd like to make an amendment to add the 100 000 that was contained within the resolution that was passed to the 2022 budget okay so theresa you want to amend the budget to add a hundred thousand dollars for a year for land acquisition is that correct
 That's correct, Mayor. Okay, I just want to be sure I got that straight. So we have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to amend to $100,000 to the budget for land acquisition. What discussion do we have on this? I have some discussion, Mr. Mayor. Okay. This is not that much when you look at the budget as a whole.
 But we already are running a deficit in the budget, and so I am taking pause to consider it. What I know about a budget is it's not gospel, it's not set in stone. And if we have the opportunity in the future to purchase some land that's appropriate, then we can always come back and revisit the budget. If we allocate the $100,000 in the budget, then it just puts us a little bit more...
 a deficit if I can find a place to take some of the $100,000 from another place that I think is excessive then I would be more comfortable with it I would like to hear a little bit more discussion on it because I I really want to support this but the budget as a whole is making me take pause thanks
 So Councilmember Kenyon, I can respond a little bit. This is why I wanted to find out where we were with the 2021 budget. So we're $6 million ahead for 2021.
 This is just the start. For $100,000, you're right. You cannot really do much with $100,000. But that could go to conservation easement funding. And this is setting up a savings account, essentially, so that when these opportunities present themselves, when we have sensitive lands that we need to acquire, at least there's an area that we can go to to actually take funds from,
 Also, citizens and other nonprofits could actually have a place to donate funds. Right now, we don't really have a place, is my understanding, where citizens or organizations can actually donate funds for land conservation or easements. So this is trying to look into the future, trying to plan because we do, I mean, climate change is here, we're seeing it all the time.
 and we need to be able to have that ability to pull funds when that opportunity is necessary or presents itself. I agree with your points and they're well made. Again, I think if the opportunity comes along, we always have the opportunity to come back to city council with some specific numbers and some specifics. $100,000, I don't know. What do you get with that really?
 You have a place marker in a budget. I don't understand really why this place marker then has a place for other people to contribute. I think that would need to come through a 501c3. Maybe Paul could answer that. Paul, are you there? Yeah, sure. Well, the issue right now is we don't have a place identified. I think the city council has one or two choices. If you care to amend the budget, that's your prerogative at this point in time.
 Or we can look at this. Right now, remember everything in the 2022 budget is an estimate.
 Once we get into 2022, we'll see what the actual revenues are at that point in time. We see that revenues support an additional $100,000. We can make a motion to amend the budget at that point in time. We'll also be revisiting the capital improvement plan in 2022. We could look at budgeting and the capital improvement plan at that point in time. But your basic choices are at this point in time,
 add $100,000 to the sales tax capital fund. If that's the case, you can either increase the deficit there by $100,000 and we'll see if the revenue comes in and support it or we can choose something in the sales tax capital fund to reduce by $100,000 or
 we hold it at this point in time, wait till we see the revenues that come in in 2022, see if we have expanded revenue, see if we can work it in the capital improvement plan at that time. So those are my three suggested solutions to this at this point in time. Thank you, Paul. Let it be known that I absolutely support the concept behind this amendment. And I'm certainly...
 always going to be ready to move forward after we see what we have at the end of the year. Like I say, I heartily support this, but with the budget that we have in front of us right now,
 I feel confident that it's a good budget and I don't even it's just $100,000. It is more of a deficit and it doesn't, in my mind, mean that much to the preservation as a whole. What I would like to see is to be sure that we have a plan, that we have a vision.
 And I know you do, Councilmember Turk. You've got a plan. You've got a vision. I know you have it. And I trust you on that. I would always trust you on that because you have so much wisdom in that area. But...
 Like I say, our budget is a guideline, but it is not in stone. We will have the opportunity when we look at the capital improvements that we can make with the carryover to, at that time, bring this up again. And I would encourage that. But until that information is in front of us, regretfully, I would not be able to support this change. I have a question for Council Member Turk.
 Theresa, you had mentioned that you kind of alluded to this operating as a savings account, that it would be, you know, kind of rollover, I suppose, to the next year.
 Do we have, do you have any, any ideas in place and this kind of plays on what Mark just said about how this would operate, how application would be made to this, how we would, um, you know, determine what is a qualifying property to purchase with this money. Um, you know, I, I kind of
 Don't think you get much right now in our current economy for $100,000. Maybe if it rolled over five years, you might, but I don't quite understand how this is going to work to be applied for for properties to purchase.
 um thank you for your question councilmember bunch um the way this would work at least in my mind and i'm certainly open to discussion and and ideas is that once the master plan is completed the climate resilience master plan that you all agreed to fund uh and is it and is within the budget the existing budget right now
 that there will be high priority properties identified. They'll be updated. There's already a lot of information about that, but there's no real implementation. And implementation means that we need to have some funding. And I have on the side before I was a city council member, advocated for the city to purchase certain properties and was told there was no money, there was no funding available.
 I don't want us to have an opportunity and then there's no funding available to purchase some of those high value properties or put conservation easements on there, which is, I think, a much better strategy to partner with other organizations rather than doing an outright purchase. That's just a general statement on my part.
 So that is what I'm hoping is that we develop this, if you will, savings account for conservation easement
 And so when there is a property that becomes available, that we don't tell citizens, hey, we don't have any money in the budget. Our budget's really tight. We're operating at a deficit. Instead we say, hey, you know what? We've got a little bit of money over here that can be used for that. And maybe we can partner with other organizations or state agencies in order to obtain that conservation easement on a property.
 I hope that helps answer your question. So right now you are asking us to vote to come up with this $100,000 without actually having a plan for it. I mean, we'll adapt that later on as we get more information on the survey that's being done. Is that correct? Yes.
 that's correct okay and the decision-making process too yes okay thank you i have a question um for council member turk as well would this would this be a part of every budget or we would we have to approve this every year um and what would we do with excess funds if if it wouldn't be able to roll over can we pull them out if we need something else or do you have a plan for that
 So in talking with Paul, thank you for your question. In talking with Paul, putting it in a CIP would allow it to roll over every year so that it wouldn't go away with, is my understanding, and he can correct me if I'm wrong. And every year I believe that the city, because of the resolution that you all passed a few weeks ago,
 that money would be deposited in there. Of course, we could take it out if we have a deficit or reason not to put it in there, because the budget, just like we're having a discussion today, gets approved by the city council every year.
 So I don't think that that locks the city in or the council in perpetuity. I think it could always be taken out, but the intent would be that it would be there every year in the budget.
 Okay, thank you. I really love the idea that you have, and I think that this would be a good project, but I think that I'm kind of leaning more towards what Mark is concerned about, so I'm on the fence. Let me just say a couple of things here before we get too far. I do want to say this. It's not like we never bought any land around here either.
 because we bought Kessler Mountain, which was about 400 acres. And what did we pay for that, Paul? You remember, top of your head?
 Was our share? About three million dollars. About three million dollars. Now, and we also bought Centennial Park, which is 228 acres, if I remember correctly. And it was slightly less than that, but of course a lot of this was also because the Walton Family Foundation loaned us the money for Centennial and also paid half of it and they also helped us on Kester. That's right. So it's not that we have never bought any money or always tell people that we're not going to buy anything.
 what we have done when the reserve got healthy enough and these opportunities came along, then we felt like that we were investing in preserving property in the city. In fact, I think we preserved around 1200 acres in the last seven years in this city. So I want that the public to also know that. Yeah, I've got some issues with this because either it's gonna go around us
 and then city council doesn't get to vote on it, or someone else is gonna get to decide what to do with the money. So I've got some real concerns about denoting $100,000 without any metrics of what it's going to
 to be and honestly when I see citizens asking for the city to buy land, it's not really for conservation, it's to prevent houses around them, which is totally against 2040 plan. I haven't seen a lot of people say, hey, there's a sensitive area. It seems like the only sensitive areas are around houses. So I've got issues denoting money,
 um based on you know some of these emails asking us to conserve every areas and buy it up um and the mayor spoke on the point that i was also going to bring up we've had no problem buying land bought a lot of it um and if there's opportunities there i trust the council to to act on those okay what other discussion do we need on it
 I just want to have another point. The Council Member Turk, it's absolutely necessary that someone bring this up as a talking point. And I do appreciate that you bring it out to the forefront and maybe not forget it. I don't know how the vote will turn out. But regardless, it is your insight and your knowledge in this area that has brought it forward. And I do appreciate that a great deal. Anything else on the amendment? No.
 Okay, do we we have a second? We have we have a motion in second, correct? Let's go ahead and see where this amendment goes. Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? No. Scroggins? No. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, the amendment fails. Okay.
 All right. That's one of what other amendments or discussion from the council that we have. Mayor Jordan and council, I have a question. And Paul, what did we decide to do concerning YRCC? Paul? You said what did we decide to do with the YRCC? Well, you brought the issue up. We answered the questions.
 Currently, the additional money we're talking about is not in the budget. So if you want to discuss that, it would require an amendment by the council. But let's also remember that we have funded the YRC-SAIT for the tune of roughly $250,000 this year. We do currently have in the budget.
 point six FTE to expand the program. We do have million dollars in capital funds to expand the facility and Susan might want to talk more on this but we do have we are looking to expand some of the operations at the YRCC in the future however not at this point in time. Susan do you want to?
 Susan, you've been in discussions on this, haven't you? Certainly and I believe I mentioned last time we met that we are very well aware of some potential programming additions that we want to work with the Friends of YRCC to make sure we establish, especially in anticipation of the expanded facility.
 We are not going to try to explain it any further actually. Allison gave a presentation of where we stand and I feel like I'd be redundant to continue talking at this point. So we will look forward to working with the YRCC, that's for sure.
 Thank you so much. And also, Mr. Jones, I do want to make one thing very, very clear. From the staff and administration viewpoint, we certainly want to thank the partnership that we do have with the Friends of the YRCC. They've been great partners, and we've worked very well together and do value their input, and we certainly appreciate that. But I'm sorry I interrupted you. Please go forward.
 No worries. My only question was I don't remember exactly how we needed to proceed. I do remember the presentation last week, and I'm very grateful for it, but I didn't know if we needed to do anything else. Well, Delray, let me answer some of that question. About anything that the YRCC has asked of me over the years, I have tried my very best to do for them.
 And I know that you talked about extra money for some other services, and I know Susan has been working on that with Quinn, and we're certainly open to meeting that need. I've never really denied the YRCC things that they have needed in the past. And to answer your question, DeAndre, to get this before the council, you would need to make an amendment, a motion to amend the budget to add the amount that you were talking about.
 Okay, okay, because, Kit, I thought I did that the last time, and so I didn't know if we needed to go back and do it again. Council Member Jones, I recall that we had the discussion last time. I don't recall that you made a motion and got a second. I just don't have that information. Right, right. Well, let's see what the clerk has to say here. Okay.
 So, based on the information, going back and taking a look at the roll call, and I would have to review the video and the minutes for that, I know that Councilmember Jones did bring up and say that he wanted to look into or...
 He said, I want to amend in order to have an additional $45,000. However, then Chief of Staff Susan Norton came up and started talking about the different things that happened between YRCC and the communications. So at that point, there was no second. There was no roll call done on that.
 Well, to make it much cleaner than Council Member Jones, it'd be good for you to go ahead and move again your amendment that you want to have to the budget that's before the council. Thank you, Kit. My other question is, if we don't, let's say tonight, if the motion isn't made, we can visit this again in the future, correct? Yes.
 Yeah, DeAndre. This is the council's budget, and so the council often is asked throughout the year to amend the budget. Yeah. And so you can certainly do that really at any time throughout the year at any city council meeting. You can make a motion to amend the budget. Yeah. And that will be heard with a second. That will be heard and considered by the city council. And from what I understood from my chief of staff, she's been in discussion with the plan to amend
 That's right, Mayor. And so what I said the last time and what I want to make sure everyone understands, the anticipated additional staffing for programming, we believe, will come sometime this year when we have been in negotiation and through the survey process we have with the community about the expansion of the YRCC and working with,
 the friends of the YRCC and Quinn, we want to identify the priorities for that additional staffing, and we're staying ready to continue to work on that and bring something back as soon as we have a fully agreed-upon plan. Yeah, so, DeAndre, it's not just like it's going to go away or anything. Right. Okay. Well, I was just wanting to make sure, and that's basically it. That's it.
 Okay, but I mean what Susan works through the plan with I believe she's been working with Quinn We'll be bringing something back for whatever we need to bring back is what we might have seen it right So then and Allison and Josh and yes, and the whole team will will be in lockstep lockstep on the programming We're not going to forget. Nope. I
 All right, thank you guys so much. Thank you. Mayor Jordan, I had a question for Kent. Just for clarification purposes, if Councilmember Jones did bring that back, would it be a walk-on item that would go through your office?
 if he wanted to amend the budget at a later date? Well, that probably, that is one possibility, but it also can be that any council member can get with the staff, get with Paul and say, I want to bring an amendment to the budget back. And it can go through a normal process, doesn't have to be walked on.
 and just like any other resolution they want to present. And so they can bring it back basically almost at any meeting that we're going to have next year. Yeah. But basically what we're talking about here is as we look at that, staff working with the YRCC,
 I would assume it would come back, come through the administration, and then we'll go forward from there. Unless the administration chooses not to support it, we've always been supportive of YRCC. So it would be the normal channels. Thank you. Does that help, DeAndre? Yes, it does. Thank you so much. Thank you. Okay. Anything else from the council? Okay. Let's take some public input on the budget that we have before us right now.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on the topic of the budget. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in person in council chambers after that. So who do we have on Zoom first, Susan?
 I do not see any hands raised on Zoom. Okay, who do we have in the chamber would like to address us on the budget? Please come up.
 Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Sarah Moore, Ward 2. I'm the co-founder of Arkansas Justice Reform Coalition, and we're an organization that's working to end mass incarceration across the state of Arkansas. And one of the ways that we're doing this is enfranchising more participation in our communities about policies, legislation, and where we're spending budgets, because ultimately
 improving the lives of all within our community, especially those that are the most vulnerable, experiencing things especially with this pandemic and giving them resources and uplifting and create safer communities and more vibrant communities.
 And so in regards to the budget, I know that I've spoken in the past and maybe have spoken with some of you personally and have also sent a letter in, but I just wanted to reiterate a few things as this conversation has continued. One of the things that I hope that will be spoken about and addressed at some point is
 point is that while I'm sure you know legally and I know there is a lot of due diligence that's done within the city and a lot of effort that's made in regard to the budget the community does not see the budget until very late in the process and in other areas like the quorum court in Washington County the budget process starts in June July and the public is privy to that by July August and that way in the community we can have more intelligent conversations
 We can have more discourse. There's more opportunity given that so many folks are, you know, living paycheck to paycheck and are on the verge of losing their rentals, trying to make ends meet. They have the opportunity at some point to enter into the process.
 The other thing that I wanted to bring up, and I appreciate the efforts that are made around getting community input. However, I will stress that it's very important to try to get into all the pockets within the community because I just spoke about a lot of barriers that our community is facing.
 I've recently spoken with one of your staff members because I've said that I'm suffering from survey fatigue. I love that we do surveys because that does enfranchise me in the process. But however, when I see them come out like the economic vitality survey that went out yesterday, they're often only in English.
 I know that many people in our community were very diverse. We speak different languages. And additionally, talking back to some of those struggles our community is having, many folks, when we talk about this, there's infrastructure plain coming, have trouble having internet access or broadband. One of the things our organization, who's a grassroots group of volunteers, has done is we've gone into the pocket.
 pockets of Washington County and talk directly with our community members over meals. It's a hard process sometimes, but it's worth investing and talking. And so I just would ask the city council and the city staff to think about how we go into our community. Additionally, as we keep growing, because there are eight city council members and there's no way for them to talk to 11,000 people, but with digital surveys only responding, you know, 700 to 1,000 people is that representative of all the pockets in the community.
 Additionally, just like this Yvonne Richardson conversation has come up, and we really need to invest in the youth in our community who are really struggling with their mental health. The national survey said 80% of them are really struggling right now, and so as much money and resources as we can pour into them, we should be investing in our youth who,
 who ultimately, they're not succeeding by third grade or in a pipeline to prison. And Arkansas is the number four incarcerator in the nation, and our over-incarceration in Washington County shows us that we're not an exception to that rule, and we have a lot of work to do.
 So I would say that if there's any ability within the current budget, knowing that we have to have something operate going forward and knowing this is a movable document, one of the questions that I have is about the $4 million and what the decision process or conversation was in regard to paying off the bond debt early.
 Ultimately, many times this kind of bond debt, given the current rates, is very low interest and it's some of the freest, if you could call it, you know, money that we can get access to. And I'm curious if we leave it in the budget the way it exists today, if that money will be absolutely gone and we'll make a payment on January 1st or at some close point into
 or if there's the ability to put that to a side account, to have greater conversations within the community about the Yvonne Richardson Center, about crisis response teams, about the social workers that came up and the conversations from the school resource officer conversation that we talked about, creating that cohesive potential program opportunity across the school district into the city about these,
 pockets of our area to de-escalate violence. There's a lot of violence prevention programs and things that we'll speak about ARPA in the future about, but also how we can embed these within our ongoing consistent budgets.
 So I would ask the council tonight if there's a way in a mechanism that four million dollars if there's any possibility of putting that To the side in some way if we're going to move forward with this budget So that we have the ability in the future to talk about staffing needs or program needs and as we go into 2222 and there aren't any concerns around how you fund that that resource. Thank you for your time Thank you. All you want to address those issues is Brian Absolutely
 Unfortunately, I have to admit I did not make one thing perfectly clear to the council. Sometimes you overlook things that are obvious, at least to me. Four million dollars' worth of debt service that we're going to reduce the bonds earlier, that's in the dedicated sales tax passed by referendum by the citizens of Fayetteville. We can't do anything else with that.
 call bonds. So that's not available to defer or use for anything else. I regret I should have mentioned this earlier, however I did overlook that. But that is dedicated sales tax, can't be used for anything else, has to be used
 to reduce the bonds. I was so excited about telling you how we could pay these bonds off earlier that I failed to mention that, but I want to be perfectly clear with the council and the citizens. All right, thank you. Who else would like to address this from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution, um, so what's the wishes, what action items are discussing the council will have? So this is a resolution, um, what's the wishes of the council here?
 I move we approve the resolution. Second. I vote motion second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Kerr, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Okay. Thank you, council, very much. All right. Let's see. Let's go on to new business.
 Number one, a resolution to approve a retention pay plan for Water and Sewer Operations Division employees who serve in the public health and safety capacity. Tim. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I'm coming for you this evening to talk about the recruitment and retention challenges that we're facing in the utilities department.
 This is very important to me. It's important to my management staff. We've had this issue with recruitment and retention probably for over two years, but when the pandemic hit and all the employers are looking for employees, it really accelerated. Basically, we have got both a safety and an emergency situation.
 The emergency situation is that this division will not be able to keep up with our current pace indefinitely. We have our employees working overtime every day. The maintenance workers are probably putting in 130, 940 hours in an 80-hour pay period. Our crew leaders are putting in 110 or so hours in an 80-hour pay period.
 We're not going to be able to keep up with that indefinitely because we are all humans. The safety issue is that these employees are not getting the chance to recharge, to have enough time at home in order to just basically recharge and get this.
 This really, like I said, has been going on, but when we had the 36-inch leak on September the 20th in town, it really showed to light what we had to do. We had to use everybody that we had available to work on that leak. Plus, we had to call in seven contractors to help us. And at that point, if we would have had another leak on the other side of town, we would have not been able to fix it in a timely manner like we're so used to doing.
 The three reasons that we're having these problems can be attributed to first of all that the private sector right now Are pulling our experienced employees away from us by offering? more incentives more liquor pay just because Businesses booming it's booming out there and they are looking for employees just as hard as we are and
 The second reason is that at the current pay that we start our employees out at is not lucrative enough for anybody to even apply for the positions. We do get a few, but there's a lot of times when we don't, when we have these positions advertised, we don't have anybody applying for them, so we don't have anybody to interview.
 And the third reason is the market is changing so rapidly right now in these specific unique positions that all our sister cities, they are making adjustments to these as we are looking to do with our merit pay plan. But we are, like I said, in an emergency status and a safety issue right now.
 We're going to reach a point here, and we're about to reach a point where we're going to have our customers that won't have safe drinking water and sewer service consistently because
 What you can see is happening is we're going to be working on leaks. We're going to have more leaks than we have employees. And we'll have to isolate that leak until we can finish what we're doing and then get over to that leak. And consequently, that means that we'll have customers without water for a period of time. Can't say how long that would be, but it could be several hours.
 The positions that we're speaking of on this retention and recruitment plan Are the construction the maintenance and repair employees? We've got the crew leaders and the maintenance workers Currently we have nine open positions Which is about 25% of our workforce and it does it does show itself when we're trying to do the work out there and
 This is the focus of our proposal to address this emergency and safety situation. We want to retain our employees so we can keep our 100,000 customers within water and sewer service. This involves about 38% of our entire workforce in the utilities department that would be receiving this retention and recruitment pay.
 I have met with all the employees about this to explain exactly what I explained to you that this is an effort to retain our maintenance employees, the ones that do the repairs. And as we go through the salary study, this will address other shortfalls if we have them, if it shows, and we will address that with the 2022 pay plan.
 We do have the funds available in our payroll because of the fact that we have been short-handed for so long. And we did send this to the Water and Sewer Committee on November the 9th, and we had a 3-0 vote to forward it to the City Council with a recommendation for approval. And I'll certainly be happy to answer any questions that you may have. So it did go to the Water and Sewer Committee.
 pardon me sorry so it did go to the water and sewer committee it did on november the 9th and they did a 3-0 vote to afford to the council with their recommendation for approval and you did meet with all your employees before yes sir going forward with this okay
 I have a question. I have gotten several emails from employees who were concerned about the fact that the raises would not be for the entire staff. Can you speak to that and is there any way that you could even out the increase so that everyone could get a raise?
 Well, when you look at this, this wasn't a pay for performance type of raise for our employees. That is what we do the pay studies for. We are in unprecedented times and this is an unprecedented move that we have asked for. We are trying to retain those employees that are doing the repair and maintenance on our water system where we have the leaks so we can reduce our water.
 water laws and keep our customers in service yes all our employees do great work and I won't deny that one bit but we look at this we're looking at stopping an emergency situation in a safety issue and we have to concentrate on those employees okay thank you other questions do we have Tim on the pay study
 Would this go away as soon as the pay study is done, or would it go away when we make new recommendations? The way that this proposal is written, that it will not go away. It will stay after the pay study is performed. Okay. And then we would have the opportunity to change it at any council meeting, but we would probably then make adjustments at that point. I would say yes, sir.
 Yes, I would think that you could. I have a question. Tim, is there a way to expedite the pay study? And right now, I'm wondering at what point do you think that pay study will be completed on its current timeline?
 Councilmember Turk, I would have to defer that to Missy Cole. She is basically overseeing the Johansen group. She should be able to answer that. Teresa, to answer your question, it is wrapping up as we speak. It will be done preliminarily in December.
 So just to follow on with that. So once it's completed, you could have it to us relatively quickly. You could have it back to the council within mid-January, mid to late January. Do you have like kind of an approximate timeline? So we typically follow
 So the city, I'm not talking way in on the budget, but typically we do not implement our pay plan. We don't do it at the beginning of the year. It's done at the end of the first quarter based on how the budget is set up. Okay, thank you for explaining that. But that could be altered if...
 Is there the opportunity to make a change to that? Say your pay plan was completed, you had, we could request something to us by mid January. Is that a possibility, Paul or Missy, whoever the appropriate person is to respond? I think Paul should probably weigh in on that one. Yeah, Paul needs to weigh in on that one. And normally what happens, Teresa, is first off we see the pay study, it's a draft,
 It comes to senior staff. Senior staff looks at it, decides how to implement it, because it involves the entire city, not just one department. So by the time we get this, see what the costs are, see what the recommendation is, it's normally
 late February, early March before we're prepared to come forward with it. So that's probably about the earliest we could do it. When we see the pay plan, we've got to evaluate it, evaluate how it affects everybody, impacts everybody, see affordability, etc. So that's usually the first draft we're getting to see in late December, early January.
 I just want to follow up with you since you're staying right there. You know, we are in these crazy times that we always talk about, unprecedented. Do you think there is a way to expedite that process if possible, or do you really absolutely have to have that time? I would say I think the earliest we'd be able to process it by, say, the end of February.
 Okay, thank you.
 year was until about February, which showed us December. Correct, Paul? That's correct. So when we looked at that, everything had tanked. So workers, some of the workers that had gotten raises in January and then the rest of them, we didn't, weren't able to give them raises for almost over a year. And I said I would never do that again. We would wait until the end of the year where we could look at December
 and then plan how we were going to do the raises. And that way we've got a snapshot of the whole year instead of doing raises say in January or February and everything tanking in the last two months. Now I know it's been good this year, but that's not true every year. Is that all? And let's also put it in perspective. There are a lot of tasks
 by not only my department, every department in the city going on in December and January. We're closing out years, we're opening up new budgets, we're putting through new purchase orders, we're cutting W-2's
 Really don't have the staff to accelerate a great deal what the mayor said is absolutely true This is this is what happens. It takes a while to fairly Evaluate that I think one thing I don't know if it was made clear By Missy or Kim is based on conversations That they did have with our rate study people it appears that the comparable positions looked at and
 would merit that kind of salary increase. Missy, would you care to expand on that? Yeah, I had some, just to give you an idea, just looking at the entry-level maintenance worker three, and it's not called that at Bentonville. It's called something completely different. When we did this survey in 2019, at the end of 2019, their starting pay was $1,456, and our starting pay is $1,496.
 today Bentonville has changed and altered, and they're not the only ones. I'm just giving you them as an example, but they're starting pay for that position has moved up to 1779 as the minimum, so we're seeing some really quick market adjustments from our counterparts in northwest Arkansas based on the reasons that Tim expressed to you. And the other thing I really wanted to point out that I don't think it's.
 is this year alone in the maintenance worker three and four positions, we have had 18 openings, and we've had a total of 38 applicants for those positions from January through today. I ran it today. And if you look at other  it's not that we don't have turnover in other divisions, but if you look at other job titles within the city 
 Taking, for example, in his own department, the meter reader position, they have had six openings this year, but they've had 168 applicants.
 So when we talk about how dire this might be from an applicant standpoint and the health and safety piece, I think that really hits home. We don't have a lot of people to look at to fill those positions. And we're hoping to use this $3 an hour as not only something to reward those employees that are currently in there and in the trenches, but also for any new people that fill those vacancies.
 which our internal staff have the ability to apply for those jobs and receive the benefit of the $3 incentive. So we're hoping to use this kind of as a recruitment tool as well to get his positions filled. And let me follow up with just a couple of things. The council used to decide these pay plans in, like, the fall.
 And then when January rolled along with everything, it tanked and we couldn't pay everybody what we promised them we were going to do. We decided to wait until February where we could take a snapshot of the whole year. Is that not what we did, Paul? No.
 Absolutely Lionel. We did that number one. Number two, we were having difficulty funding salary increases. This year is one of the first years we're talking about incorporating salary increases into the budget.
 Those of you who have been here quite a while remember that. Remember some of the conversations that we had looked at. We felt we needed to see one where the budget was going, where we ended up the year and where the new income was coming from that projection. So some of those did because if you get a salary survey,
 and then we can't afford it, and we release and say, well, here's salary survey, but forget it because we can't afford it anyway, then you've really got, that's unfair to the employees. So absolutely what Lionel is saying is absolutely correct. I also want to say this. When we looked at this, this was not done...
 on a short period. We looked at this very, very carefully. We believe there's a safety hazard issue, and that's why we decided to bring it forward at this point in time. This is very unusual, but remember we have to concern ourselves with not only the potential flooding if we can't control the leakage, we've also got to look at the fire side of it
 And we have to concern ourselves that we've got sufficient pressure to meet a fire so that fire department can fight a fire if we have one. This was not something that was done without a lot of thought.
 As I came forward and Tim discussed the problem with upper management, we all looked at it and Lyle can attest to this. We considered this for a long time, but we felt this was the best alternative at this point in time. We value every employee in this city. Believe it, we do. Mayor Jordan values each and every one of us. And so do I and so do the rest of you and I know the City Council does too.
 But sometimes we have a safety issue, and we have to do something extraordinary to meet that need. And at this point in time, we felt this was the absolute best decision. Is it the panacea and everything's wonderful and everybody's happy? No, it's not. But we feel it's necessary at this point in time
 to protect our citizens. I'm sorry, Lionel, but I thought those statements should be made because I know we looked at this very, very carefully. And this is something that the Mayor, Chief of Staff and I struggled with. And this was the best solution we could come in on a temporary basis. Thank you. So I have a question, Tim. So I received some phone calls and emails from
 people that work for the city in the water and sewer department primarily and you know they i know i i really do think that you explain this but there's a certain number of people that don't feel that it was explained very well or that they're unsure about what's going on or they're just unhappy with it the way that it's working and i know that
 I mean, anytime we look at something like this, we're looking at somebody being unhappy because you can't make everyone happy all the time. Sometimes you can't make anybody happy. And they like that. Yeah. We know how that goes. We've all been there. We've all been there. But I do feel that some of the questions I've been asked and some of the concerns that have
 are valid and maybe would require a little bit better explanation with staff and a little more engagement with the people. This is presented as a safety hazard for our city. And I know when we talk about that, we talk about, I mean, we think about
 It's not just that we all want to turn the tap on and have sufficient water flow and pressure. We want to make sure that water is clean and safe. And if those tanks get drained, people don't have water, and then we don't have also run the risk of not having good fire service. So that's a really serious, serious concern.
 But when we talk about this, is this something we need to vote on tonight? Is this that serious that we need to make a decision tonight? Or is it something that we could table and possibly look at in a little more detail and allow some of the employees that I've been hearing from maybe get a little more consideration?
 Well, I did receive all the questions that you had received, that you sent, which will take a little bit of time to answer. But if you're asking for my professional opinion, no, we cannot wait. We can't wait to table this. We actually, if you want to look at just straight human nature, we've got some experienced employees that are looking to see what the city council and what the management's going to do.
 We can't afford to lose any more experience. I mean what happens when you don't have experience is you might still yes Get the job done, but you're going to get things you're going to get the water shut off slower Whenever there's a leak because the inexperienced employees are not going to be able to turn to anybody to know where the valves are Yes, we have a mapping system, but a mapping system is not near as fast as somebody that's experienced. I
 So this is something that, like Paul said, we've been discussing this for a while before we brought it to the council because it is an emergency situation. And if it wasn't an emergency, I wouldn't have brought it to them at all. But this is something that we've never seen before. You know, back in the days, there was never an opening in the water and sewer department. There was never one at all. And now we cannot get people to apply. Yeah.
 because of what's going on and what wages that the contractors are paying. It's just extraordinary. It certainly is. But I will certainly take the time...
 regardless of what the vote is, to answer all those questions and get that information back to you. I did not, what he's referring to is an email that I got from someone who asked me not to include their name. And I said, well, okay, I'll send the questions out. I don't make any, I don't put any...
 i don't say that the questions are true or you know based in fact or whatever but i just did tell this person i would share it with other council members i think i forgot to leave you on that forgot to put you on that email i tried to get everybody else on there though but um yeah i i think we um you know i don't want to run the risk of having um any shortage uh and and having any safety concerns and i you know i thank you for putting that in real blunt terms for me there
 because I was going to ask if we could table this. So I don't think I'm going to do that now. But are we really thinking that this salary survey that's going to be coming along is going to bring everybody up to the range where they should be? Because one of the questions I got asked was about capping out on your salary, you know, when
 when you can do that and how long it takes you to get there and that sort of thing. And so I don't know if that's something we need to discuss at a later date, but I wanted to kind of put that out there as well. That's really all I have. Thank you, Tim. Yeah, and I would comment that when we talked about this and knew that the plan that we were going to put in place didn't include all the employees that we were concentrating on keeping the water in the pipes, we absolutely knew that it wasn't,
 It wasn't going to make everybody happy. I mean, we knew that, and we know that we have to deal with that. What I have told the employees is that we will continue. I have always continued my career to try to bring employees up to market value. I mean, you have to go with what the economy is doing, and you've got to go with what the administration is doing as well. So we'll continue to look at this. We'll wait for the...
 the city. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point.
 that step, those step increases and how long it takes you to top out? Is that part of that? Because I don't know if Missy could answer or whatever. Yeah, so this year, step, when you talk about steps, that's what we do with police and fire. So this year is actually our merit pool, which would include all of Tim's people and, you know, transportation and all of the office people and everybody. Right.
 And that's a range. And if you'll recall the last time we did in 2019, we made it a focus to increase the spread from the minimum to the max of our range. And so we don't have anybody that's topped out because we made a concerted effort to make sure we were broadening our range spread to address that impact. Because I think in the past, there had been an issue with that. But since I've been here in 2019, that has not, that has not,
 happened in our market studies. Did that answer? It did partially. I've got another question. So when you go to the next rate, I'm sorry, I'm used to the step system. So whatever the next level is, is have you looked at the time that it takes to get to that next level and consider adjusting that? Or I'm...
 So that's more of a step plan. And so that has everything to do with how police and fire are compensated. Everyone else is great. Their job descriptions are graded and they're placed in a grade. And then that grade is what ties into the merit pay plan. And the grade is what we are surveying. So every grade in the city gets multiple chances of getting surveyed.
 And so we take about 96 positions. We benchmark those positions across all fields, all departments.
 and we look at our competitive cities that we're supposed to do in our compensation plan. And then we come up with proposed ranges. And so then we tie the budget and the range together and we make sure that nobody is ever below the proposed new range. So they're brought up at least to minimum. And then we have a budget number that we top onto that as part of the pay plan that we then have...
 whatever it's budgeted for next year, 3%, 4%, that then ties into that. But there's two things. There's the pay plan, which is tied to the survey directly. And then there's the budget compensation number, which is tied directly to the budget. So the two kind of work together to come up with what the person's new pay rate will be when we implement the pay plan.
 Okay, I'm sorry. I'm gonna I'm diving down into the rat hole on this one So let's just say that I've been with city five years and I am I read meters So how do I end up getting a raise other than then just an increase from the pay study? Do I get is my supervisor advisor evaluate me and then I get bumped up within that huge range and
 That's a great, thank you for that question. So yes, that's what happens. So right now we're doing all the performance reviews and then the performance review number gets plugged into the budgetary side of it. And then the pay grade will be another piece of that
 formula that gets put together. And so that all comes together to create a new pay range. Now with steps, your job is graded. So if you're a J412 is your job grade, you're not going to change job grades within that same job, unless you move into a different job that has a different experience level. Um, and then it would be graded accordingly. So, um,
 So to follow my analogy, if I've been with the city five years and I'm a meter reader and I'm just doing this incredible, superb job, theoretically, if I got evaluated for my performance, I could go all the way to the maximum of that range? No. No, you couldn't do that because...
 There's a budgeted pool for that supervisor, so that supervisor has to spend their dollars on all of their employees. They're not going to more than likely single out one person and put them at the top of the range at the expense of everybody else that works for them. Okay, thank you. Now I got it. Okay. All right. There's a finite amount in the pool. Okay. All right. Thank you, Missy.
 So I was on sewer water and definitely voted for this solely because we need this. When I voted on it, I knew that this was going to probably present other issues. We're starting to see that with emails right now.
 David. Staff, I believe, has a trust issue with with the city. We're seeing that in the emails that are coming forward, and we also kind of took a hit with the health insurance plans just recently. So I plan on voting for this because
 If we think people are going to be mad in general about streets and sidewalks, if their water doesn't come on, that's going to be a different kind of mad. But the issues that have been brought up both with the health plan and with this really need to get taken care of. I believe that people really need to trust health.
 what's happening here and what I'm seeing is many aren't. So hopefully, I think the other council members have kind of pointed to it, get this pay study done ASAP, but other departments are gonna come asking for more money and I don't blame them. And hopefully if you're voting for this today, which I plan on, you recognize that that's gonna come.
 I'm 37 and inflation has never been an issue in my life. It is now a new issue and we're going to have to re-gear. And hopefully it's a short-term inflation issue, but this is new. And I hope that we can let staff know that this is new. Raising prices at unpredictable rates hasn't.
 Hasn't happened before for as long as I've been alive. I would like to...
 When we get the pay study and we start going through this, every time we talk about salaries, there's always something that comes, and it's not just water and sewer, but there's always something that comes up that I don't really fully understand, some little subtle nuance there that I thought I got, but then somebody will ask something, I'm realizing I don't quite get this. So...
 loathe as I am to suggest more meetings, I would love to have some more meetings on this because I think this is incredibly important and I also suspect what Sloan just expressed that we have some, maybe it's not everyone, but there's all it takes is a few people to be dissatisfied to really tip the apple cart for our city and I feel like we've got really good people at work here and
 And I can't stress that enough. And we want to hang on to them. And we want to, you know, we want to show them that we respect them and care about them and listen to their concerns. Even if we don't always agree with them, we listen to them and we value that. So I would kind of like to see if we, you know, when we get to that process, we can have some more meetings and really kind of...
 go over what we have as a pay plan now and what we might be having with the pay study. So,
 And that doesn't really affect you and Jim. Oh, I just want to say I appreciate your comment, Councilmember Bunch, because it is a complicated topic. And since we do the merit pool every other year, then we have opportunities for education throughout. So we'll have to arrange some special times. I think a workshop is a really good idea for you all to have time to ask a lot of questions. It is. I mean, something like that, because it's...
 it's you know I in my job I get paid when I sell something and that's that's it you know I don't have a step plan unless I'm working more hours and but you know so I think I think that would help a lot of us and especially we have a couple several new council members and that sort of thing and we'll
 probably be having a third new council member here pretty soon. So, thanks. We'll be happy to set up all the sessions y'all would like to have and discuss the budget and all the finances. I know. We're good with that, for sure. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah. Speaking as one of the new council members, I would appreciate that as well. So, thank you. You bet. We'll be sure to have a few of those. Okay. What other questions do we have from the council on this?
 Okay, let's take some comments from the public. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those that are in person in the council after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Nobody. Okay, who do we have in the chamber?
 Alright, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What would you all like to do? Before we go on, I would like to say that some of the people that I have talked to are the very people that work in the ditches and do that type of work. They're also the people that are not the best, maybe the most knowledgeable about how to approach things.
 the city or council members or that sort of thing. So, you know, I'm just hoping that, you know, just because they didn't speak tonight that we, I mean, I've heard from several people, so I want to make that acknowledged. I, you know, that some of these people are not the folks that are going to pick up the phone and call the mayor, or I know he gets enough calls from everybody else, but they're not the people that are going to call the mayor or the council members or that sort of thing. So we need to maybe reach out to them a little bit. So thank you.
 I would also like to make a comment. For all those people that have sent emails or called, I just want you to know that we really appreciate your service. We appreciate everything that you do for our citizens in this city. And if you don't get a pay raise right now, it's not because we don't value you. It's because we're in a really emergency situation and crisis. So I thank you for reaching out.
 I'll do everything I can to see if we can't get that pay raise or the pay study implemented as soon as it's possible within the city. So, again, thank you. We value your service and appreciate you. Okay, this is a resolution. What's the wishes of council? If there's no other questions or comments, I move we approve the resolution. I second it. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution.
 What final comments do we have, Council? Or anything else? Mayor Jordan and Council, I would just like to echo the sentiments of Teresa and Sarah. And we appreciate the hard work that those employees who have reached out, they wanted to remain active.
 Anonymous, but again, I want to say that, you know, we really appreciate their hard work and we're certainly looking forward to including them in a pay raise. Yes, we're going out for a market study right now. Anything else? Okay, care, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number two. A resolution to rename that portion of Pruer Road between Dean Street and Mount Comfort Road to Stephen Carr Memorial Boulevard and to approve a budget adjustment. Hop.
 Thank you, Mayor. Before I begin, I would like to thank specifically Chief Reynolds, Lieutenant Shepard, Kit Williams, and Chris Brown for their help on this item, and also Mayor Jordan for co-sponsoring this with me. I believe what is before the council tonight is extremely significant. This community was served courageously by a man named Stephen Carr.
 He represented Fayetteville every day, protecting citizens and serving others. Two years ago today, Officer Carr was targeted for wearing the badge that represents everything good and noble in our community. The sacrifice made by Officer Carr and his loved ones shall never be forgotten. What is before us tonight is one way we can permanently etch Officer Carr into the fabric of Fayetteville. What makes this memorial unique is the opportunity to put Stephen Carr's name in a prominent place on our interstate highway.
 Each day the interstate signage will be observed by thousands and for those who knew him it will no doubt bring back fond memories and for those who did not especially new residents and young people it will inspire those who learn about the life of Officer Carr, his character and his ultimate sacrifice. There could not be a better stretch of pavement to name in honor of Officer Carr
 It is on this stretch of roadway that our new public safety headquarters is being built in such a way to protect fellow officers from the same type of criminal attack which fell Officer Carr in the line of duty. My fellow council members, I urge you to support this resolution before you so that one day soon we can gather on site with the Fayetteville community to publicly and permanently honor Officer Stephen Carr. Thank you. Okay. I will conclude with some remarks as we finish up.
 What questions do we have from the council on this? I don't have any questions, but I'd just like to say thank you to Holly for bringing this forward. I really appreciate that. And what public comment do we have? Okay, I'll bring it back to, oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead, Chief. Mayor, Council, just wanted to say on behalf of the men and women of the Fayetteville Police Department, thank you, Council Member Hertzberg.
 for sponsoring this and certainly mayor jordan for co-sponsoring this two years ago i made a vow and i made a vow that we would never forget stephen carr and i can't think of a more fitting way or more fitting day to honor his memory
 I'd certainly be remiss tonight if I didn't recognize the Carr family that are with us. And present is Stephen's dad in council chambers, Mr. Paul Carr, he's here. And certainly your unwavering support of this resolution, council, would be heartfelt by me.
 uh by my officers and certainly by the clark family and i just thank everyone in our community for all the support they've given us so thank you mary any public comment we'll bring it back to the council this is a resolution i need a motion in a second i make a motion to approve the resolution we have a second okay we have a motion to second any final comments from council did we hear a public comment yes we did
 any final comments from council okay i have a couple of remarks i would like to make and i certainly want to thank council member hersberg for her work to bring this resolution forward thank you very much this resolution is very meaningful to me and it is an honor to be a co-sponsor officer carr was a he was a great officer who served police department in the city of federal with great honor
 And knowing him personally, I found him to be very kind, very honest, very thoughtful, and very dedicated. So I believe in naming a street by our new police headquarters after Officer Carr as a way to honor him for many years to come. As the chief said, we will never forget him or his sacrifice to the city. So having said that, thank you council members for supporting this resolution tonight.
 With that care, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Thank you, council. Okay. Let's go on to number three.
 resolution to change order number eight to the contract with NAB host construction corporation in the amount of ten million three hundred and seventy three thousand eight hundred and eighty eight dollars for the guaranteed maximum price related to the cultural arts corridor replacement parking deck project and to approve a budget adjustment this is a 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project wait thank you mayor
 At the November 21st council meeting, council approved the early grading package. That item, along with tonight's change order, establishes the guaranteed maximum price for the construction. The scope of this change order includes the balance of the work to complete the entire deck project. As stated at last Tuesday's agenda session, the funding sources for this change order is from the phase one bond funds, general funds, and street improvement funds.
 The total construction cost is $11,629,000. Combined with the soft cost, we'll put the total project cost at $13.2 million. And I'll address any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Wade from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one has raised their hand on Zoom. Okay. Who would like to address us from the public in the chambers? Yes, please, come up.
 Hello everyone, my name is Bo Counts, I'm a resident of Ward 2, also a local business owner here on Ward 2 on Block Street. And I kind of come here as, you know, my favorite thing to do which is a little reality check to people. I'm not necessarily against this increase because like you said Mayor, the times have changed. We thought about this in 2019, we made plans for this in 2019 and it's now 2022 and things have changed.
 But this is also a part of the arts corridor, something that was a part of the bond initiative that was voted on in 2019, which is a part of a litany of other things that have been really great improvements to the city of Fayetteville. We also had a pandemic there in the middle, and a lot of the people, constituents, business owners, residents, have voiced concerns about this construction of what has turned into be a, hey, that's cool project after one of the most financially troubling years and then some that this city has ever faced.
 causing inflation prices, labor shortages, all this stuff. But when residents and business owners encounter the city and say, hey, maybe we should reconsider spending millions and millions and millions and millions and millions of dollars, which are now looking to be increased as we go.
 The answer is time and time again, well, that's what we planned on in 2019, and we have to stick to those guns. But conveniently, when things get more expensive in 2022, well, then we've got change orders that can be voted on. And it seems incongruent.
 and a little bit troublesome, especially the optics of a resident here that pays taxes and runs a building business, that when we voice concerns and are met with stopgaps of, sorry, there's nothing we can do, that's what you voted on in 2019, to turn around and see something like this, go, well, actually, we're going to make a change order because times have changed and things are different. And so we get to make those changes on the fly. But sorry, guys, we're going to keep doing what we want to do. And I just want to
 say that as kind of a, I don't know, just a reality check of how that looks to residents and people that work hard and try to build communities here and try to voice our opinions. I know I'm only one guy here, but I know I speak for a lot of people about this project. Some people think that the time isn't right for this, that we're still rebuilding, we're still growing in a very, very troublesome time for a lot of people
 local businesses and hospitality based businesses and things that are happening right downtown in the middle of our entertainment district that is not necessarily thriving as good as everybody thinks it is and Again, not to say that I'm against this increase in funding because what's done is done But moving forward just keep that in the back of your mind as these things get voted on and consistently start to change Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. I
 this is a resolution what's the wishes council i believe we accept the resolution second thank you we have a motion second to pass resolution what final comments do we have in the council yeah we're met we're mentioning um uh the person that spoke um mentioning people struggling i i know this hurts it hurts that this costs more um i believe five years from now when the arts corridor is finished when the parking deck is finished
 This will bring more business downtown and will help the restaurants down there. I'm not happy how long it took, but it took as long as it took and it's in front of us now. And I look forward to the ramble being completed and the parking rearranged and then hopefully businesses booming downtown again.
 I think you noticed everyone was reticent in moving this forward, or seem that way, as I am also. Again, we keep mentioning the change in the economy and the change in social activity, but this was voted on. And so it's not that we can't make changes. I think that we probably will see changes, but in this case 
 even though we're reticent to move forward in this, or I'm reticent, I didn't hear options of how we should move forward. So as troubled as I am to vote this way, because it does, it absolutely has a perception of being an extravagant expense that is just something extra. But the reality is it was passed by the people of the community
 And so there's some responsibility for the people that supported it to move forward the best we can. I know we can always come back and look at it again. So that's the way I'm looking at this. I'm not sure how I'm gonna look at it. I'm trying to think, but I think I know. Mayor, can I add one quick thing? We did an extensive value engineering process on this and
 We were we actually cut over 1.3 million out of where we are today So we did make some efforts to lighten the blow if you will One point three million is a nice savings, so I guess if you want to look at it, you know that that's at least something Thank you
 I'd like to make a few comments. I do think we have choice here. I voted against the parking lot being located where it is.
 I still have some real serious concerns about the very complicated deal that's been negotiated for a very long period of time. And so I'm not surprised that costs are going up. And I do think it's extravagant. And I have not, as I've expressed before, not been happy with this entire process related to the parking lot and swapping this for swapping that.
 So I will not be supporting this resolution tonight. And I appreciate the citizen bringing up some of the concerns before us, because I think sometimes I know this happens to me occasionally. Sometimes I think we're out of touch. We get enthusiastic about projects and then we don't talk to enough people to get re-centered on where sentiment is. So thank you. Those are my comments. Yes.
 okay anybody else well i'm glad we moved forward and council member turk i agree and final comments okay coverage please call rome herzberg yes jones no kenyan no scroggins yes bench yes turk no
 Okay. It fails, Mayor, on that. Okay. Let's move on to number four. An ordinance to approve Vacation 21-028 for property located at 3428 East Jasper Lane to vacate portions of a general utility easement and drainage easement. Okay.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of a general utility easement and drainage easement are not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby vacates portions of a general utility easement and drainage easement as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance is duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the planning department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay. Jonathan? Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in northeast Fayetteville. It's at the northernmost end of the Copper Creek subdivision. It's most specifically located, as you can see on the aerial here, on the northwest corner of Jasper Lane and Running Springs Drive.
 The request before the council tonight is to request portions of two easements. It's about 1,200 square feet of drainage easement immediately north of the house on the property and about 392 square feet of utility easement immediately north of that. The applicant would like to develop the property with, as I understand it, a pool.
 All the relevant utilities and services and the city's floodplain administrator reviewed the request with no issues. I did, again, as I've noted out at the agenda session, solicit the floodplain administrator's comment because as a drainage easement, I wanted to ensure that it was not tied into a larger drainage plan for the overall subdivision.
 which he indicated that it is not, and it would not have any impact on any of the joint properties since that drainage easement serves only to get water across this property's backyard to the Reddick Springs right away to the east.
 With that said, staff identified no issues with the request. We are recommending approval of it tonight. All the relevant franchise utilities have signed off on it. And as Mr. Williams noted, there is one condition staff is recommending, and it's the standard one you see with utility easements. The damage or relocation of anything in the easements will be at the property owner's expense.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe Nathan Crouch is present online as the applicant for this item. Thank you. OK. What questions do we have in the council? OK. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person after that. So what public comment do we have on Zoom? No. Okay. What public comment do we have inside the chamber? Okay. I'm bringing it back to the council.
 What's the wishes of the council? This is an ordinance. What action or discussion would you like to have? If there's no questions or comments, I move we approve the ordinance. Oh, I'm sorry. We move to the second reading. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 Kirk. Yes. An ordinance to approve the AAC 21-028 for property located at 3428 East Jasper Lane to vacate portions of a general utility easement and drainage easement. This is an ordinance that's on the second reading. I move we move to the final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg. Yes. Jones. Yes. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herk? Yes. In Ordinance approved, VAC 21-028 for property located at 3428 East Jasper Lane to vacate portions of a general utility easement and drainage easement. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon?
 scroggins yes bench yes turf yes okay let's go to number five an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-058 located at 23
 90 South Dead Horse Mountain Road for approximately 51.33 acres from RSF4 residential single family for units per acre subject to a bill of assurance to RSF4 residential single family for units per acre. Kit. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A.
 and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF 4 residential single-family, four units per acre, subject to a bill of assurance, to RSF 4 residential single-family, four units per acre. And actually, subject to the bill of assurance should be at the end of that sentence and not in the middle. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is located in southeast Fayetteville. It's currently undeveloped and possibly familiar to the council as it was seen recently in 2021. It is a fairly unconventional shape, as you can see outlined in black here on the aerial image.
 It is Ordered by the stonebridge meadows golf club to the east and northeast and it touches dead horse mountain road at two discreet spots On the west side and it is separated from dead horse mountain by property that is both
 incorporated into Fayetteville. And as you can see here where the arrows are pointing, two properties that are, or several properties that also remain unincorporated enclaves of the county within the city's limits.
 Now the property has a fairly extensive zoning history. I'll try to be brief since I have gone over it once before already this year, but as a brief reminder, it was annexed in 1997 and as often happens with properties annexed, it's zoned to our agricultural designation. Just over 10 years later, a PZD was approved on the property for a mix of detached single family homes, townhomes, condos, and some non-residential uses.
 In 2016, planning staff took forward a package of PZDs that had never been developed that were considered expired to be rezoned. Ultimately, this property was rezoned to its current residential single family four unit breaker designation with a bill of assurance limiting it to 2.5 units per acre. A couple of years later, a preliminary plat was approved here, which you can see with the brown shaded lots.
 However, it expired and was never built. And again, as I noted a moment ago, in 2021 another request was brought before the city. This was for a second plan zoning district and included a mix of mostly single family homes with a component of nonresidential development. Ultimately, this was denied by council.
 To put this in terms of density, it went from one unit for two acres under the RA designation Windows Annex to 6.6 under the PZD in 2009, back to 2.5 with the rezoning with the Bill of Assurance. The PZD earlier this year proposed 3.5, and what's being proposed again today is to rezone the property, which is RSF4, subject to a Bill of Assurance for 2.5 units breaker, and
 to eliminate the bill of assurance and allow four units per acre. The request is before the council on appeal. In terms of our, or in terms of, excuse me, compatibility, staff found it to be fairly mixed. Again, the property is surrounded largely by undeveloped land. There certainly are areas of subdivision development across Deadhorse Mountain Road to the west and further northeast on the other side of the golf course.
 But by and large, this is an area without access to any services. It's certainly significantly rural, if not largely rural. And staff does not find adding more single-use zone property with additional density in this area to be appropriate.
 In terms of our long-range plans, staff found the request to be largely conflict and inconsistent with many of the plans. Our future land use map designates the property as a rural residential area. If it were to be developed, our city plan documents recommend it be done in a subdivision format, similar to the Riverside Village project that the council saw earlier tonight, conserving areas of the property that could be sensitive.
 And when looking at it from the city plan 2040 standpoint, staff didn't find it to be inconsistent. This proposal again would be proposing additional density with access to very limited infrastructure. There are no water and sewer lines immediately stubbed out to it. It would not be connected to a street grid.
 and ultimately would not have any readily accessible services in the area. This aligns with its infill score infill rating, which shows that it does have water. There is water and sewer on Deadhorse. And of course there's a park, but it is worth noting that it's on the other side of the West Fork of the White River here. And there is trail construction in the subdivision to the southwest.
 Other issues worth bringing to your attention, this again may be one that sounds familiar. There's a complicated arrangement between sanitary sewer in this area. There's a chain of lift stations located between the subdivisions to the northeast strung through the golf course. In order to serve this property, they would be required to somehow connect to the lift station.
 into the golf course to move the sanitary sewer back across this property and across the West Fork and the White River to connect to the sanitary sewer system there. That said, staff does recommend denial of the request. The Planning Commission agreed, voting 7-0 to do so.
 The main conversation was regarding the rural nature of the property and not having the potential with this request or possibly any future request to have access to services to reduce the automotive dependence. We have received some public comment to date. This has all been in opposition, including from residents adjacent to the property to the west and southwest.
 and also representation from the golf course to the northeast who expressed concerns about the ability for this property to access the lift station on their land and and i'm happy to take any questions the council has and i believe westbrook dos is the attorney that filed the appeal on the side of him i'm not certain if he's there present or not thank you
 Mr. Mayor, before the applicant speaks, I need to correct my last comment. The ordinance as written and as I read it is correct. The basic issue here is the applicant wants to remove the bill of assurance that is currently part of the zoning. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have ten minutes. Evening, Mayor, council members. My name is Tom Hanley. I'm with Kraft and Toll representing Roush Development. Okay.
 I'll be honest with you. This is probably one of the most confusing pieces of property I've ever represented in the 25 years that I've been doing this This will be the second client That we have tried to get this property developed for the first one. We did get a preliminary plat approved Coincidentally
 Um, because none of the staff reports or anything indicated there was a bill of assurance that limited the density to two and a half units per acre. Our preliminary plat was right at two and a half units per acre. That didn't become known until that client that previous client asked us.
 to get with city staff and see whether or not there were any way we could increase the density on this to make it a more economically viable development. So we did that. We met with...
 what are now former staff members. And they indicated to us that there was a number of lot configurations that we could pursue, tandem lots, a combination of RSF4, some duplex lots, and do a mixed use RPZD on the development. And so we took their advice. We revised the plat for that.
 In between that time, my current client purchased the property from the previous owner. We took that RPZD through Planning Commission. They requested that we add a commercial component to it.
 We reluctantly added a commercial component to it because we didn't think that that was the proper place for it. But we thought, hey, if we can get this thing approved, then the client was willing to incorporate that into the uses. And so we did that. It passed planning commission. I think we had one vote against. And then we brought it here and council unanimously denied it.
 And so here we are back in the in during the course of getting this project approved or before you guys with the RPCD, the golf course changes hands. And the new owner of the golf course just happened to hire the guy who wrote the bill of assurance on the previous zoning, Robert Rhodes.
 And Robert was quick to point that out to everybody, as he should have. Kit knew about it, but during the preliminary plat of the previous development, Kit would have had no reason to even see it, because it would have been approved at Planning Commission.
 We had two separate clients who had two separate companies do two separate title searches on this property, and neither of them turned up a bill of assurance associated with it. The city's GIS site was only recently updated with the asterisk behind the RSF-4 to show that there was a bill of assurance associated with this property. So what we're asking for...
 Currently, the bill of assurance is two and a half units per acre. I think everybody in here knows that if we have RSF4 zoning, there's no way we will get, particularly on a uniquely shaped piece of property like this one is, there's no way we'll get four units per acre. It's just simply impossible. Even on a square 40 acre track, you won't get four units per acre.
 We think that the most that we could get would be about 3.2 units per acre with some creative design changes.
 That's what we're requesting, that that two and a half units bill of assurance be removed from the property and allow this developer to develop the property, which will ultimately wind up at about 3.2, three to 3.2 units per acre. And if we need to present a bill of assurance that limits the density to that, we're happy to do that. Just so everybody's comfortable
 That we're not going to get the four and I would challenge anybody to fly over a development that has two and a half units per acre or 3.2 units per acre and be able to tell the difference. We're talking about, you know, 30 lots. So.
 I'm petitioning you guys tonight to overturn the Planning Commission denial of it so that we can get this property developed. I was encouraged, by the way, with the annexation and rezoning of the RPZD that went on tonight on Blackhorse because the properties are very similar. Black Oak. Is that my time? No, Black Oak. Black Oak, I'm sorry. Black Horse.
 Because they're they're very similar in nature and and and the staff would like to have a commercial component in this for neighborhood services That there's 60 acres between our property and dead horse mountain road and when that property develops That's where that commercial component should be it Shouldn't be
 100, 200 yards off Deadhorse Mountain Road in the middle of a residential subdivision. So we're asking that you do that to overturn the Planning Commission denial and if there's any discussion that would be beneficial to talk about a 3.2 unit per acre bill of assurance, we're happy to do that. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 What questions do we have in the council for the applicant or its staff? I have a question for Jonathan. Jonathan, would an adjustment of the bill of assurance from 3.2, first of all, would that be possible? And second of all, would that change the staff's opinion on your decision? It is possible, but in fact, we have a form for it that is written and has to be signed and notarized by the owner.
 But if the owner wants to offer a substitute bill of assurance so that the current bill of assurance would be changed to 3.2 instead of 2.5, they could do that. But nothing orally is binding. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Hertzberg, to the second or first part of your question, rather. Okay.
 I do not think staff would support this or no staff would not support this. And in 2016, when the PZD expired, it was staff's recommendation that this revert to a residential agricultural designation. I...
 Perhaps I'm being preemptive, but I think there are several big distinctions between this property and the one being considered on Black Oak. One is proximity to services, employment centers, and the downtown. There is, as a crow flies, certainly an appearance of very similar proximity in this instance. There are several extenuating circumstances that...
 Some on the council may not recall there is not access to much connectivity on Dead Horse Mountain Road. For those who have been on the council for a while, you recall there have been several flooding incidents over the years. Not many, but enough that they stick out in the residents' mind where the bridge across Dead Horse Mountain Road is flooded and people have to divert significantly to get to the city and other means.
 So I don't see the request as being similar in that regard. I certainly do see the applicant's point again as their profile is, but this portion of Fayetteville has access to no services and no employment. Whereas theoretically the previous one considered on Black Oak, it realistically could tie into the park that's immediately located there. There is employment immediately adjacent to the subdivision.
 So hopefully that answers your question and please let me know if you need to expand on anything. Thank you. That answers my question. Thank you very much. Alright, any other questions from the council? Yes, I have a question for Jonathan. Jonathan, would you, you know, since we're trying to, since it's been brought up that there's a comparison between these two properties,
 Would you please address a little bit more in detail the situation with the sewer connections on this particular property on Dead Horse Mountain Road? Yes, I would be happy to do so. And if I can be afforded a moment, I'll try to get into the item that was considered earlier this year. But in a nutshell, there is, again, a series of lift stations that serves the...
 I'm sorry, just allow me a moment to get it open. It'll be much easier to understand it with a visual to go along with it. Thank you for your patience.
 well i'm sorry i'm having issues accessing our network i'll keep working at it as i discuss there are a series of of lift stations that serve the stonebridge meta subdivision to the northeast which to get their sewer to the main trunk lines that run along the west fork of the white river will fire lift stations to get those get the the sewage over the golf course basically and in order for this property
 to achieve or to for their sanitary sewer to get to the same direction it would actually have to be moved to the northeast to the lift stations before being moved back to the southwest to be able to use gravity to get to the lift station here we go i've got my traffic here for you
 Hopefully this helps. Thank you for your patience again. So what you see is the property in red is what we're considering tonight. The green lines that you see scattered throughout are the sanitary sewer lines in the area. As you see here, there are two off-site lift stations that are currently moving sewer from the northeast and pushing it southwest where it will ultimately cross the West Fork of the White River to the main trunk lines. The one in question in particular is the one closest to this property.
 And it is, the lift station is used to move it southwards to along an eight inch force main to an eight inch gravity main, which is actually in the property being looked at. But for the northern portion of this property to get there,
 easement would have to be acquired between this property and the lift station to move this portion the northern portion of the site's sanitary sewer back to that main it would be an 8 inch gravity main to move it back before the lift station would move it again back south to the force main hopefully that helps clarify
 Is that helpful, Councilmember Bunch? Yeah, I think so. It's pretty complicated, but yeah, that helps me out having the map to look at. Thank you. Any other questions from the council? I have a question, Mayor. Jonathan, can you go back to your graphic real quick? Sure.
 So do I understand that they would have to get an easement or there was an easement with the golf course in 2006 like you have to go across the golf course? Does that still enforce or would they have to get a new easement? I guess my bottom line question is, is all of this possible right now with the existing agreement with the landowners on the golf course?
 That's a good question and I don't know if Mr. Williams can speak to it based on conversations he had with the previous request. But my understanding of what occurred when the easement was dedicated previously is that the legal description for it was not correct. So it does not run along the route necessary for the 8-inch gravity mate to get to the lift station.
 If that is the case, then the property owner, the applicant tonight will need to petition the golf course or purchase that easement from them, which is not something that city would typically get involved in, except it's a question here as to whether the property has adequate infrastructure. Thank you. Any other questions? Council? They're going to need to do that whether they remove the bill of assurance or not, correct?
 That is correct. To develop the northern portion of the property that gravity flows to the northeast, yes. Okay. Anything else from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 Have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. And then those in person in the council chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Nobody. Okay. Who do we have in person in the council would like to address this on this?
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm a lawyer with the law firm of Hall Estill and I represent the neighbors. And I think you probably, if you recall, I've been before you in, oh gosh, seven months ago I think as we debated this issue. Let me kind of see if I can respond to some of those questions as well.
 I think Council Member Turk asked about the easement. There were two easements, and one easement is a legitimate easement, and it is, I guess, big enough for part of the sewer to go through.
 There was a second easement that was signed up and according to the previous owner of this property, Mr. Meadows, he believed that that easement, he was told, it was represented to him, that that easement was only to just straighten out the boundaries. It wasn't to make that easement any bigger.
 The second easement not only has typos on it, which makes it invalid, it also is not what Mr. Meadows thought he was signing. So no matter what, the golf course, which is where this easement is located, they will protest the use of that. Now...
 Again, as I mentioned before, seven months ago we were here, you all voted this down. At that time you were voting down a PZD. Now it's just a simple rezoning request. That is, you know, leave it at RSL4, but take out the bill of assurance that limits it at 2.5. That bill of assurance.
 I think you could say that the city benefited from it. That was why the city passed the rezoning back then is because I think they liked that bill of assurance. Well, not only did the city like that, but also people that bought land subsequent to that 2016 bill of assurance being implemented, they liked it as well.
 If you recall in the prior record, whether it was before this council or before the Planning Commission, four neighbors spoke and indicated that they purchased their property
 with that less density in mind. And so now we've got some coming along, this Fort Smith developer is coming along and he wants to enlarge that. Now, if you remove the bill of assurance, I think if you look at staff report, it says it basically will double the amount of homes.
 So I would ask you to kind of just maybe look at the page two of staff report. I'm going to give you a few quotes here. Number one, they say it's non-compatible. Another quote, it has a very low infill score. Number three, this request would almost double the number of homes. Number four, staff characterizes the request as sprawl. Number five,
 Staff finds this in direct conflict with two of the city's stated goals, appropriate infill and no sprawl. So, I think it's obvious that this is something a good bit different than what you all proved earlier tonight over on Black Oak. And I guess the last thing I would indicate is
 As far as the bill of assurance that potentially may be proposed, this is the first I've heard of it and this developer has sort of made a habit.
 Um, of, uh, not really communicating. With the neighbors and as opposed to. You know, maybe sitting down with us and saying, okay, here's what I'm proposing now. You know, we'd all be in agreement with that. It just gets surprised. We get a surprise here. And, um, again, um, the 2.5.
 in all of my clients opinion is quite developable. So in other words, by denying this, you're not, you know, you're not going to financially ruin him. It's still developable. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who else from the public would like to address us on this? That's in the chamber. Okay, now I'm going to bring it back to the council. Now this is an appeal
 And we got to go it is an ordinance. I mean, I'm sorry, but it's it isn't an appeal Correct. It isn't a pill from the Planning Commission. I don't deny it. Yes So what the council like to do and if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading, okay? Thank you. We have a motion to say and go to the second three Cambridge, please call the roll Hertzberg. Yes Jones yes Canyon yes Scroggins yes
 Bench. Yes. Kirk. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-058, located at 2390 South Dead Horse Mountain Road, for approximately 51.33 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre, subject to a bill of assurance. To RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 Thank you. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herk? Yes.
 and ordinance rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-058 located at 2390 south dead horse mountain road for approximately 51.33 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre subject to available assurance to rsf4 residential single family four units per acre okay what final comments do we have in the council now
 to vote for this be what kit what's their voting uh this would uh grant the appeal and overturn the planning commission's decision and remove the bill of assurance from the land if you vote yes and vote no would yeah and then the land stays as is so i will be sure the council understands all that so what final comments do we have in the council can't repeat that again just so i don't
 Okay, of course it takes five votes to pass an ordinance. If you pass this ordinance, then you would be overturning the Planning Commission's decision to deny this removal of the Bill of Assurance, and therefore the land would stand as RSF4 with no Bill of Assurance to limit the density.
 If the ordinance does not pass, then the Planning Commission's decision will be basically affirmed by the City Council and the bill of assurance will remain attached to the zoning for this property. Is that clear enough? Yes. Okay. Thank you. All right. There's no other questions. Karen, would you please call the roll? Ertzberg? No. Jones? No. Kenyon? No. Scroggins? No.
 Bunch? No. Turk? No. So the ordinance fails. Okay, let's go on to number six. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 21-073 RZN 21-073
 located at 2434 North Dean Solomon Road for approximately 5.06 acres from the RMF24 residential multifamily 24 units breaker to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial. Kip? Okay, I pulled up the wrong one here. Just a second. Okay.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to C2, thoroughfare commercial.
 And section two, that the city council, the city of Fayetteville are actually hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville with reflective zoning change provided in section one. Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in northwest Fayetteville. It is located on the southeast corner of Dean Solomon Road and at Moore Lane, about a quarter mile, half mile or so northwest of Mount Comfort and Porter's intersection with Interstate 49.
 The property in question is generally undeveloped. The southern third or so, however, does include about a 7,700 square foot office building. It's a parking lot and a cell tower as well.
 The request, which you can see on the western portion of what's outlined here, does represent only about a five acre portion of a larger approximately 22 acre property, which you can see the larger area, the dash line here. That is also owned by the applicant. Much of the property is the location of the former Williams tractor, if that helps orient you further.
 So overall, it is a three frontage property. It has access to Shiloh Drive to the east, Moore Lane to the north, and Dean Solomon Road to the south.
 But for the purposes of the request before council tonight, the only portion of the property being considered is the five acres of the corner, again, of Dean Solomon and Moore Lane, which is currently zoned RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. The applicant requests to rezone this to C2, thoroughfare commercial, and the request before council is here on appeal from denial by the Planning Commission.
 When looking at the request, a land use compatibility standpoint can certainly be seen through two lenses. If you've been in this area, you know that the larger area does include numerous auto-oriented uses. There are a series of car dealerships all along Shiloh. There's some significant retailers further north.
 But when you look at it through a much tighter lens, it is certainly a different picture. Most of Dean Solomon Road is residential uses. Even the properties not currently developed are zoned almost exclusively residential with the exception immediately to the north where some small-scale non-residential uses are allowed in the northeast corner of Moore and Dean Solomon and further north on the west side.
 JUST OUT TO UNDERWOOD PARK WHICH WAS RECENTLY ZONED AS A PZD. PORTIONS OF THAT PROPERTY ALONG DEAN SOLOMON ALLOWED NON-RESIDENTIAL USES. BEEN SEEN FROM AN ADOPTED LONG RANGE PLAN STANDPOINT. STAFF FOUND THE REQUEST TO BE GENERALLY INCONSISTENT. THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP DESIGNATES THE PROPERTY AS A CITY NEIGHBORHOOD AREA.
 which definitely prioritizes a wider spectrum of uses and a strong encouragement for mixing those uses to create compact, complete, and connected neighborhoods. At the same time, there is some recognition that in certain parts of the city, it may be appropriate to have single-use zoning districts that are auto-oriented in nature.
 When looking at this through the perspective of city plan 2030, this site does represent an opportunity for some appropriate infill, has access to a wider transportation network. It does seem as though it would be an appropriate place to have the potential for residential or a mix of uses.
 And the info rating on the property does include a mixed bag. It does.
 have access or nearby access for good fire response. Additionally, the new fire station that Dean Porter is under construction, this specific portion of the property has access to water. It is worth noting, while this five acres doesn't have immediate access to sanitary sewer, the wider property does. So that would certainly increase the rating there. Additionally, of course, there's access to Underwood Park to the northwest with its associated trail.
 And another point is received for the future land use map designation of a city neighborhood area. Other issues, and this kind of factors into both the land use compatibility and the long-range plan, is how our zoning districts drive the appearance of properties and how they're developed.
 The C2 district is very much an auto-oriented conventional zoning district that prevent or allows large parking lots to be built in front of buildings and it is certainly one of staff's concerns that streetscape in a largely residential area have some degree of present preserved streetscape that's appropriately pedestrian scale and it's our concern that rezoning at the C2 and not necessarily a
 encourage or even require that, would potentially allow the development to turn its back on this street if it was so decided to do so. With that said, staff does recommend against the request. The Planning Commission did discuss it at length, which isn't necessarily reflected in their vote, although they did ultimately deny it by eight to one.
 uh they had similar concerns the staff about the low development site development standards of the c2 zoning district compared to some of our form-based districts and their higher building design standards site layout requirements there's also concern about land use compatibility and the preference to have seen alternative zoning districts proposed here that may have potentially complemented the the multi-family zoning district rather than just replacing it um
 I apologize. I meant to that next bullet point should be a minus, not a plus. Those who spoke with potential or with the benefits of the request proceed to acknowledge that this is not an uncommon zoning district or allowance uses that you'd find in the wider area. And standardizing the zoning across the entire property would allow for a uniform way to develop it, but that might not result in a disjointed development.
 We have received some public comment for the request. A couple of pieces of public comment arrived at or by the planning commission. One was from the owner of the Underwood property to the west and they expressed support for this proposal. Another was from a resident from the wider area who was opposed to the request. They felt it ought to be mixed use in nature as well to promote the walkability that was envisioned near the park.
 uh since the appeal staff has received a significant amount of additional public comment from particularly from residents of the pines at springwoods uh subdivision or developed to the further to the north and that is uniformly in opposition there is concern that the property could be developed in an incompatible way to to their neighborhood what is envisioned for dean
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions you may have. I believe the representatives for this item there tonight are Suzanne Clark and Matt Lewis. Thank you. Okay, would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes.
 thank you thank you mr mayor and council i'm suzanne clark i'm an attorney here in fayetteville and i'm here representing the lewis brothers leasing company i'm going to take the first few minutes to uh to talk and then i'm going to turn it over to uh to matt lewis and i would ask jonathan if you could bring up that slide again that shows the total of the lewis's property with the area that's being rezoned i think that's an important uh an important representation i'm glad that slide was available for you
 to take a look at the Lewis Brothers property to begin with. We are talking about roughly 24 acres of property, and about 80% of that is already zoned C2. So about 20%, actually less than 20% of the overall lot
 is what is currently zoned RMF24. And it's important that for development, especially moving Lewis Automotive to this site, that that be consistent. And there's the slide. You can see that the vast majority of the property that the Lewis brothers own is C2,
 and that section on the corner of Dean Solomon and Monroe is what they're looking to rezone. Now, we absolutely respect the planning staff's help and assistance in this. We started talking to them back in early August and Matt was talking to some of the neighbors prior to that
 And we understand that the city's future use plans don't fit with the C2 zone, that all of that section is designated as city neighborhood, but the future use plans, frankly, are very inconsistent with the existing uses. That section south of the Lewis Brothers property is the Subaru dealership, the Kia dealership and the Hyundai dealerships extend north,
 those uses don't fit with the city neighborhood and from a practical perspective while we understand that was the basis of the staff's decision we're asking you to consider the economic impact for the city and some common sense with regard to how our client is supposed to be able to develop that property when 80 percent of it is already c2
 Now, the Lewis brothers said, okay, if this is difficult for the city, is there a way that we can look at the city's goals and our goals and find a way to make those mesh or match a little bit? And considering that they would be vacating the property on college that currently houses Lewis Automotive,
 They came up with the idea to say, what if we submitted or approached the city about the option of rezoning a portion of that that's currently C2 voluntarily to UT, to the form-based, so that the net effect to the city is actually a reduction in the overall footprint of C2 in the city.
 even granting C2 in this situation. And in good faith, we did submit a rezoning application linked to this one and completely understanding that staff and the planning commission are not in a position to consider one zoning application contingent on another. But we wanted to submit that application in good faith because we do think that the city council
 has the capability to to have that discussion and say okay if we if we do c2 over here and look at a section that c2 in another part of town and voluntarily rezone that ut we can achieve the goals that the city's seeking to
 and also allow the lewis brothers to move forward with as with their development that that makes sense in this area that even in staff's report they specifically made the finding that if conventional vehicle dependent zoning is suitable anywhere in fayetteville the subject property is likely to be among the most compatible
 So we really think it makes sense here. Ask for your consideration and we're asking for you to to overturn the Planning Commission's decision and with that I'm going to turn it over to Matt because he'd like to say a few words as well. How much time is left Susan? Five minutes. Okay. Good evening council members and mayor. I just like to share with you a few reasons that you should approve our zoning request. I
 I'd like to go over our vision on developing this property and what it'll look like, our focus on Fayetteville in conjunction with the 2040 plan, and our family's long-term relationship with Fayetteville.
 Our vision in developing this new piece of property is to take red dirt covered piece of land with outdated facilities and little to no landscaping and no curb appeal to one of the most inviting and appealing automotive facilities in Arkansas. We're currently landlocked on college and must expand in order to keep up with the growth and demand here in Fayetteville.
 The site will have landscaping and curb appeal from the front to the back. It will feature all new technology and energy-saving utilities. Some of these include LED lighting, landscape throughout, and dealership experiences focused on EVs.
 and the future of automobiles. Our facilities will be some of the first in the U.S. to include dedicated areas focused on EV vehicles. The entire site will be well laid out and not just an open parking lot. No matter if you're driving along I-49, Dean Solomon, or Moore Lane, you'll see facilities that are inviting and enhance the areas around it.
 Barriers are important to us, especially around the residential areas of Dean Solomon and Moore Lane. These areas will have heavy landscaping and other creative ideas. The current business building on Dean Solomon, which is Process Dynamics and the cell tower, will remain where they are. The goal is to at least match the landscaping and tree canopy that's currently in front of Process Dynamics and continue that down Dean Solomon.
 Another large piece in the rezoned section is the detention pond. This pond will have to increase in size a good bit to meet the needs of any runoff. Between the current building, cell tower, and pond size, we're only talking about another 40% of the land that's left for development.
 We've taken a lot of time to plan this project out, not only how it would work for our business, but how it would affect the neighbors, the other businesses, and the city. After speaking to residents and business owners in the area, we've listened and addressed concerns, for example, the runoff issues, the buffers for residents, and the important curb appeal.
 It is important to our family that we grow in conjunction with the city's goals and plans. This is where we came up with our idea of rezoning some of our current land off of college from C2 to UT. This request, as Suzanne referred to, is already in the works and submitted. I know this is two separate items. However, they both work together.
 to even reduce the amount of C2 acres total in Fayetteville. In good faith, we'll rezone a little over seven acres of C2 land off of College to UT. This will align the west side of town with the city's plan and allow growth. The piece of land we're talking about rezoning tonight is along a current area that has automotive dealerships.
 In fact, we're only talking about 20% of the entire property to match the other 80% that's already C2.
 And I'd like to share with you our family's deep history with Fayetteville and businesses. In 1882, the Lewis Brothers started Lewis Brothers Hardware right on the downtown square where the current Bank of Fayetteville is. In 1946, Lewis Ford started on Mountain Street. My great-grandfather Bert was the sheriff. He helped start First National Bank and played on one of the very first football teams in Fayetteville High.
 In 1969, we moved Lewis Ford to the College Avenue location. In 1988, Chrysler, Dodge, and Ram franchise was purchased and opened. My Uncle John founded the Bank of Fayetteville, sat on multiple different boards, imported everything he had in developing Fayetteville, so much that he was nicknamed Mr. Fayetteville. In 2003, our use and admin building was built.
 During this time, we also carved out and donated the entire land that the fire station number five is on. We also donated the flagstone that was used around the expansion and building of the library in 2003. And in 2022, we look to begin a new project to expand and sustain our family business for generations to come. As you can see, for over 140 years.
 The Lewis family has worked with the city of Fayetteville through codes, future plans, and zoning. During this 140 years, we've been able to pour back into Fayetteville in multiple different fashions. Just like my relatives did 140 years ago, I plan to continue to have our family business in Fayetteville. Supporting Fayetteville and growing Fayetteville is a great place to live, work, and raise a family.
 The Lewis family is deep-rooted in Fayetteville. We love Fayetteville. We support Fayetteville, and we'll continue to support Fayetteville. Council members, I need your help. Help me to pass this rezoning so we can continue to grow our family business right here in Fayetteville. Time. Yes, sir. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicants or the staff? It's over in Ward 4, isn't it?
 Yeah, I have a question for Jonathan. I'm looking at page 22 of the packet, and it looks like the property directly across from the C2 on the right, it looks like there's a house across from that zoning. And I was wondering if you could confirm that for me. Is that a residence?
 i'm sorry council member hurtsburg i just got to the page you're talking to could you repeat the question yes so on uh to the right of the subject property the commercial zone c2 there's a property across the street and it looks like a residential home is that correct if it's the one on the north side of more lane it was built as a residential home but it has also been used for some non-residential purposes i recall some business licenses being there i think there was a
 organization that connected disabled veterans with service dogs being one of the recent occupants I remember correctly. Okay thank you. I just bring that up because in my thoughts looking at compatibility if there is residential housing across the street from C2 I don't know that the argument that residential across from the property that we would be zoning C2 would be a good argument so I just wanted to bring that up.
 What other questions do we have in the council for the applicant or the staff? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any councilmen.
 Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in person in the chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Steve Clark. Okay, go ahead. Steve, can you unmute your microphone? I'm sorry, we're not able to hear you yet. Okay, who else? No one else on Zoom, Mayor.
 Okay. Well, let's take some comments from folks in the chamber, and we'll come back to Zoom if he gets hooked up. Does anybody in the chamber like to address us on this issue? Okay, let's try one more time. Are you getting anything on Zoom? No. We've activated him, but there's something on his end, I believe. Okay. Well, let's bring it back to the council. What do you all want to do? You want to wait? You want to...
 look at the new information you've gotten. What's the, what's the ward four representatives thinking? I would be fine to hold this for now, but I am thinking that I would be in favor of this. It does seem like they've done their due diligence
 due diligence and they've got some good ideas for compromise. I spoke with the applicant before the meeting and they have some plans for, as they said, landscaping and possible lighting. So I would be, I'm leaning more towards in favor of this.
 I would agree with that also. You know, we've accommodated the other automobile developments out there. And in this situation, I do think it's more of a practical and common sense approach that I would look at it. There's 20 acres already zoned, and only five acres need to be rezoned, and they're connected.
 If you drive down this area, it is an auto park area. At one time it was a tractor area. You know, A.C. Williams built Williams Tractor out there a bazillion years ago, it seems like. It's not residential. And it is not a... I know that in the future plan, it looks like it would be nice if it was residential, but from a practical point of view,
 I think that it's absolutely compatible and fine to offer this to this piece of property. So I would be happy to move forward. I'm sure there are other people's opinions. Yeah, we're starting to get to it. Who else? What other comments do we have from the council? This is a rezone, correct? Yes, this is a request for rezoning. So, I mean...
 lot of the things that we're talking about they're not going to get codified correct I mean it's just a rezone so all the plans aren't part of what we're actually voting for today. That is correct you're only voting for the zoning which which allows certain uses and that's that's really what is present presented to the council. You can go through the large-scale development later.
 Can we request that we have something in writing that matches what has been described tonight? Can the applicant offer that to us? The applicant can offer a bill of assurance that would go along with what he described, but we cannot ask for that. Right.
 Okay, thank you for clarifying. You know, I drove by there today. I've been over there before several times, and
 um you know the the other areas i mean subaru is right next door um and if we were gonna not have c2 if we were not going to have an auto park we probably should have done that a lot sooner um you know subaru is also right there on dean solomon it's just a little bit further south so um it's it's a competitive it's it's a consistency issue uh with me and um
 I appreciate what the applicant said. And they're a longstanding family. They've done quite a bit for Fayetteville, as he described. So I would probably like to hold it and see if there is some kind of bill of assurance that the applicant would like to offer. And that would give us a couple of weeks to kind of see where things go and have more information if we need it.
 I would also feel a little more comfortable with it myself if we had some of these things kind of that we're talking about with landscaping and that sort of thing which could vastly improve the look of this property to begin with. But I'd kind of like to have that codified if we had some way to do that.
 I do agree, I have no real reason to believe that when the Lewis family says they're going to do these things that they're not going to do them. I trust them to do that, but I would like to have it in better format there. I know this business, I know they've been a vital business in Fayetteville and we're
 When we look at, when you look at where car lots are now, or where they, where you would think they would be, they're always along the interstate or a big highway. When they moved to College Avenue, that was the main highway, you know. And it seems fitting that we've already got a car dealership in this area. It's currently the tractor sales area. It seems kind of fitting if, you know, apples to apples comparison to me.
 But I would like to have some of the things that we've discussed maybe in a more formal format. But I'm kind of leaning toward this. Thank you. Yeah, I'm perfectly fine with the car lot here. It makes sense. We've already got C2. It seems like the only issues are the residential area on C2.
 The West side, so I think some small changes and then I think everybody would be kind of ready to move forward on this and I think the residents would be happy. So I think we're, I think we're close and could probably get it in 2 weeks. Okay, so all right so y'all would like to look at this again in 2 weeks and.
 I can certainly, I certainly agree that whatever the Lewis family tells you that's exactly what they're going to do. So I'm pretty good with whatever they're saying. I guess we could, you know, would the applicant be able to come back in two weeks? Is that a possibility or? So, I mean, I don't want to make. Suzanne or Matt or somebody say something.
 Yes, we'd be happy to try to put something together that gives some level of assurance to what Matt had discussed. I did want to ask, is there interest and do you want that to include the discussion about what was raised with regard to the property that's on College Avenue? Or is it really just the issue of the landscaping and lighting that...
 You really want for us to do a draft. I would prefer that we stick to this property and just I think there are some things you can do that will make it very attractive for the City Council. Okay. Thank you Thank you. Okay, so we'll leave it right here. Let's go on to number seven All right
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-074, located at 340 North Devil Springs Road for approximately 9.92 acres, from RA Residential Agricultural, RSF 1 Residential Single Family, 1 unit per acre, and RSF 4 Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8 Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre. Okay.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural, R.S.F. 1, Residential Single Family, 1 unit per acre, and R.S.F. 4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to R.S.F. 8, Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jonathan?
 thank you mayor this property is in west fayetteville it's about two-thirds of a mile south of weddington on double springs road and more closely as you can see here on the aerial just about 300 feet north of dot tipton road to the south it's a largely undeveloped property with just over the majority of it used as pasture land and two single family homes developed out along the double strip double springs road frontage
 The property is currently split zones three ways, residential agricultural, our residential single family one unit per acre and residential single family four units per acre. As you can see here, the RA portion totals about one acre in the northwest corner. The RSF4 portion is closer to an acre and a half in the southwest corner. But with the preponderance of the property zone, RSF4 totaling about seven and a half
 All those districts currently allow single family homes, similar to all the zoning districts around this property, albeit by varying densities. The only non-single family zoning district in the area is the property immediately to the north, which is zoned for multifamily, but it was recently developed as the, I believe it's the Emerald Point subdivision, a single family home. So there is not any attached residential housing developed there.
 It also has three street stud outs currently directed to the property, all of which are associated with water sewer lines as well. With that in mind, staff does find a request to rezone the property to RSF8, residential single family eight units per acre to be compatible. Single family homes are the only allowed use of the RSF8 zoning district, similar to all those adjacent properties.
 From an adopted standpoint, an adopted plan standpoint, however, the findings from staff are a bit more mixed. Our future land use map does indicate that this is within or designated as our residential neighborhood area, which is intended to support residential uses as its name suggests. When looking at it from City Plan 2040's perspective.
 It's a little bit less straightforward. This is certainly towards the Western extent of the city, similar to many conversations we've had tonight. I think asserting that this is infill would be perhaps a stretch, and that's reflected in the infill rating for the property. It gets a one through three,
 Basically for some of the most baseline items you would expect to find for a developable piece of land that's water, sewer and has Harmony Point Park is located a little bit to the north there. As far as some additional issues.
 One item worth considering, again, is the developing this property under RSF8 would afford the ability to continue the street grid that's already built out to the north and eastern side of the property, also tying into the existing water and sewer there. On the flip side of it, Double Springs Road, despite its designation for carrying higher volume to traffic, is not fully improved to that level.
 So it has been seeing increasing amounts of traffic over the years, but has not been fully improved as of yet.
 And lastly, there is some question about drainage in the area. I did have the opportunity to consult with the city's flood plate administrator. And while he did say there were documented issues further to the south and east and there's not been any directly associated with this property, he does know that given the largely flat area and development, that there are some unknown or undocumented issues that he has heard about anecdotally.
 staff ultimately when considering all the very factors did come down support of the request recommending it be forwarded to Council. Commission discussed it for a while before moving to deny the request. That motion failed by a vote of four to five with a mirror motion to forward it being made immediately thereafter forwarding it five to four to the Council recommending approval.
 The main comments in favor of the request were that it was preferred that if the property were to develop, that it be under RSF8 to afford the opportunity for smaller lots and potentially more affordable housing in the city. Those opposed emphasized concerns with congestion and that the city's resources would be better spent rezoning properties nearer to the city center and investing in infrastructure there. Thank you.
 Staff has received quite a bit of public comments on the request. This has been uniformly in opposition. There have been assertions that there are drainage issues, concerns about the size of the lots potentially being smaller, smaller home values than homes to the northeast and west. And lastly, there's been significant concern expressed about Double Springs Road and its capacity to handle additional traffic.
 And that I'm available for any questions the council has. And I believe the applicants, either Daniel Lazenby or Corey Reynolds, is present tonight to take questions or make presentation. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes.
 thank you mr mayor and council my name is corey ronalds i'm a resident in fayetteville i'm here on behalf of three um all three parcels i'm one of the owners of the seven and a half acres um we're requesting this rezone um to rsf8 um like jonathan said to our our main focus is to try and get the lots from a 70 foot wide requirement to a 50 foot wide requirement
 We've owned the property now for several months and we've been working with ESI engineer on it. We've done several renditions of layouts on this property. As it stands right now, the current zoning, we could get approximately 27 houses on it after considering streets, stub outs, detention and those things. If we were to be successful in this re-zone to RSF 8, we could get 38 homes. So we're talking about an additional 11 homes.
 So it's not, we had a couple of comments in the planning commission that, you know, one person was worried that we're gonna be able to put 80 homes on there, which is a logical assumption with RSF 8 and 10 acres.
 Um, 1 of the, the commissioners even suggested that we might even get up to 60 lots and it's nowhere near that. Um, we're talking about going from 27 to 38. Um, so it's not, it's not a great deal difference if we go to RSF 8, it just affords us a little bit more opportunity to just spread some of those costs that are. Associated with the development of the property, regardless of if there's 27 or 38 homes, there are certain costs that go into the property and it allows us to.
 to spread that a little a little wider. The development would be largely consistent with everything that's around there. This is kind of the next missing piece. As Jonathan mentioned, there's two step outs from the north, one from the east. It would tie in nicely there. It was obviously planned for that. It's the next logical step for a housing development right there on Double Springs. And our intent would be to build a home.
 A project that is full of homes that improve the value of the neighborhood. We are not trying to devalue any property around it. We're trying to improve the value of homes around it. And we would be very consistent with the homes that are being developed, built, and sold right now out in that area. It's a desirable area, definitely.
 i'm in the real estate business and i see homes come up for sale over there all the time and they go quickly and there are people that want to live in that area and and we would like the opportunity to to be able to to provide some of the that housing and again with the traffic impact i recognize that as a as a potential issue but as stated
 We are able to build 27 homes just under the current zoning and we're talking about 11 additional homes and I just don't think that that's going to impact the traffic to the extent that some people may be worried about. Any drainage issues that might be relevant are going to come up in our engineer studies and we're obviously going to have to address those and we'll address those properly and we will follow any recommendations that are made by our engineers.
 So I'll be happy to answer any other questions that you may have as this progresses. Thanks for your time. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? Jonathan, could you show us where the, I'm trying to pull it up here, but where the stub outs are on the existing streets that were mentioned just now? Certainly. I can get that pulled up.
 the property in question is outlined that bold black line here Galway Lane torque Lane to the north are associated with the again I apologize I think it's Emerald Point subdivision to the north and there's also an additional step out to the east as well directed at this property okay thank you that helps me
 That's in Ward 4, correct? Holly, have you got any opinion on what you're thinking on this? I would be in support of this. I think that we need housing. I'm just wondering what you think. Oh, okay. Well, I'm in support of this. Okay. That's good. Well, that's to the point. Thank you. Let's see.
 Teresa do that mayor who's out there yesterday or today actually driving around you know double it's right on the edge of town it's it's way out there um I have some reservations um about increasing density so I'll just I'll just leave it at that and we've also heard uh we've also received uh some comments uh opposing this okay um so
 And Mayor and Council Member Turk, I don't mean to disregard any public comment, but looking at the compatibility, you know, directly next to the property is RMF 6. And I don't think that RSF 8 is that much different. So thank you. Okay. Well, let me take some public comment. I wanted to. All right.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those who are in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Who do we have in the council chamber would like to address us on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council then. Okay.
 So this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion or action would the council like to take? I have one question for staff before we go on to the next one here. So looking at, Jonathan, looking at 25 of 28, we see a RSF 4, RSF 2, RSF 1.
 Above Persimmon Street, there's an RSF 8 in that area. What is off to the, I guess, the east of this? What's the zoning to the east of this?
 As you head further to the east, it segues into the city's property. It's part of the Woolsey Wet Prairie that's all zoned residential agriculturally, which includes the city's solar farm that serves the west side wastewater treatment facility. And beyond that, it segues back into largely single-family homes between the Froyles and Ruple, all the way north to Weddington.
 So the shorter answers it's RSF4 all the way to 54th Avenue and then there's a gap of city property for several of the city uses I described that segues back into single family zoning for the most part. Okay on page 27 where we've got the aerial view and you look off kind of to the northeast is that trying to figure out what that is zoned is that zoned RSF4?
 Correct. Immediately to the north is zoned multifamily, six units per acre. The storage is kind of a relic before the property was annexed, and it's zoned RSF1. But everything else to the northeast for a fair distance is RSF8, or you hit some agricultural properties in the Owl Creek floodplain and then on the Weddington. Okay, okay, so it's kind of a mix. All right, thank you.
 And so, do you all want to hold it or do you want to go on or what do you want to do? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I'll second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turp? No.
 Mayor, there are five votes in favor. Do you wish to suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in the Rezone Importation RZN 21-074, located at 340 North Devil Springs Road for approximately 9.92 acres from R.A. Residential Agricultural, RSF 1 Residential Single Family 1 Unit per Acre, and RSF 4 Residential Single Family 4 Units per Acre to RSF 8 Residential Single Family 8 Units per Acre.
 Council, I'm wondering if we could hold this for two weeks. I wonder if, because it's late, and we're not having anybody speak up, if the residents are actually aware of this rezoning right now. Teresa, I think that's a great idea, and I definitely don't want to go against you. So I would also like to hold it here. I'm dandy. Left on second. We will hold that one, too. That concludes our business. Susan, do you have any announcements? Second.
 Does anybody have any announcements? Well, I will see you all in just a little bit then. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.