I would like to call the City Council meeting of December the 4th, 2018 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Here. Mark. Kenyon. Here. Eddie. Here. Tenet. Hutch. Here. Latour. President. Man. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Here. Of the United States of America. And to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, and indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. First, we have the reports. Paul Becker has the monthly finance report. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is for the month of October. We received the sales taxes for October. And... I'm happy to report the general fund right now is up a total of roughly 5% in sales tax for the year. Building permits are up. We're doing very, very well in housing starts in the city. Actually we're collecting fees in excess of $500,000 of what we had last year. Fees and fines at the courts are down a little bit, but I'm not that concerned about $130,000. So essentially, total revenue is up in the general fund about 4.5% for the year, so we're having a very good year at this point in time. Expenses are roughly where I had anticipated them. We will have a deficit this year because of the participation with Theater Square and some of those particular issues that came up, but that was anticipated in the budget. As far as other expenditures are concerned in the general fund, our salary budgets are going to be very tight, but I think they'll hold between now and the end of the year. If not, there's enough expenditures throughout the entire general fund budget to cover it, so we won't be talking about any emergency appropriations or increases in the budget, at least in the general fund. Street fund, the revenues are flat. It's been that way most all year. Expenses are under control, so we should finish there pretty well for the year. Parks development, fees are up about 3.2%. We still have some capital outstanding to do, but that fund is holding pretty well at this point in time, and we have positive revenues there. As far as the parking fund, the parking fund has been down in collections most of the year. It's picking up a bit. We're down about 3% at this point in time. So we're edging up a little nearer than what we had expected. Water and sewer, as far as water and sewer and water usage, Remember at the last meeting I requested a budget adjustment because we had increased water Bills that we had to pay to be for water district part of that was due to some major leaks We had part of that was due to some demand increases That seems to be slowing down a bit. We're up about 7% in water usage, and about 6% of that was for demand. Revenue throughout the water sewer system is up about 4.6% at this point in time. We've still got some major capital outstanding, roughly $30 million yet to do. That has been approved in the process. But the Water and Sewer Fund is doing fine and is in a good position at this point in time. Trash and recycling we're looking at when we talked about the budget for 2019. Remember we needed to talk about operating revenues for that fund and that will be coming forward to you as a recommendation for us to increase the trash and recycling fees at the next meeting. We still have some capital work to do out there as we're totally finishing the building, scale house, things of that nature. Revenue is pretty flat compared to last year, and expenses are in line to what I had expected. Again, like I said, we're going to show an operating loss this year, and that's why we're bringing forward some – rate increases for you as we go on and we fully implement the plan that you approved earlier this year. As far as the airport is concerned, revenue is up by 29% for fuel, which that is a good thing for us. So the airport looks pretty stable. We have to count on those fuel sales to pay for our operating costs. Again, the one concern I have. with the airport is we have capital improvements and we maintain our capital out there through federal grants. We've been very successful getting federal grants and actually getting some matching money from the state for the airport, but at some point in time we might have to look at that. However, right now the airport is doing good, actually is doing good in fuel sales better than I have ever seen since I've been here. So that's my report on the capital. on the current status of operations in the city. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Do we have any questions for Paul on the finance report? Okay, thank you, Paul. Now, the next order of business, we do have an agenda addition. that i'm walking on um tonight um kip will explain it here in a moment but it reads the resolution authorized mayor jordan to sign an assignment and assumption of lease of meadow street parking decks levels one and three parking lease estoppel and declaration estoppel in connection with the sale of the chancellor hotel kit well mayor we were notified just last week that the owners of the chancellor were going to sell their their hotel obviously they have a long-term lease with us for the metal street parking decks level one and three it has an assignment a portion of it that we agreed to However, they're going to close, they're planning to close on the 14th of December. So at that point in time, we contacted the mayor and asked if he would walk this on tonight so that you all could authorize him to sign the assignment and the other papers that are necessary for them to go ahead and close on the 14th. To get this on the agenda, we'll require a motion to suspend the rules and place it on the agenda. That will be approved by two-thirds of the members. I move we suspend the rules and add this to the agenda. Adele? I second that. We have a motion and a second to add this item to the agenda. Any comments or anything? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kennan? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Lature? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, it's now on the agenda. The mayor did read the title, which is all he normally does with the resolution. But if you all have any questions, it's pretty standard stuff. Basically, the people that are purchasing it are agreeing to operate it as a hotel, just like before, and to pay the rent, just like before. So it's basically a continuation but with new owners. So do we have any questions or anything on that? All right. Do we have any public comment? Okay. We'll bring it back to the council. so I know we passed the resolution yes yes yes yes yes yes thank you all very much the next order business is consent agenda Number one resolution authorized change order to the 2018-2019 Selective tracking traffic enforcement program grant any amount of six thousand six hundred dollars and approved budget adjustment number two Resolution to prove change order to the contract with surfco restoration construction LLC in the amount of eight thousand five hundred fifty dollars and ten cents for additional mobile remediation at 2190 South Razorback Road number three a resolution to award bid number 18-48 and authorized contract with Hudson Construction Company in the amount of fifty four thousand one hundred four hundred and eleven dollars and fifty cents for the building resurfacing and restriping of parking lot 55 and approved the project contingency in the amount of ten thousand eight hundred eighty two dollars and thirty cents Number four, a resolution approving a lease agreement renewal with the University of Arkansas for city operations of the University's West Annex parking lot as a revenue-producing off-street parking lot within the Dixon Street Entertainment District. And number five, a resolution to approve the purchase and installation of synthetic turf at the Gary Hampton Softball Complex by Shaw Sports Turf pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing agreement in the amount of $531,752 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $79,763 and to approve a budget adjustment recognizing parkland dedication fees from the Northwest Quadrant in the amount of $548,158 for the projects. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Mark. I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sunderland Police, call the roll. On the wrong one. Let me get back. All right. I'm taking a minute. Okay. All right. No problem. Tenant. Yes. That's. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Under unfinished business, we have one item, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6348 for approximately 1.36 acres located north of 2454 North Dean Solomon Road from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and C2 Thoroughfare Commercial to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third reading. John, we have a second. Second. adele all right sorry would you please call the road right i mean i'm sorry janet yes yes yes yes An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 18-6348 for approximately 1.36 acres located north of 2454 North Dean Solomon Road from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and C2 third-fair commercial to C2 third-fair commercial. Governor, you got this one? I don't have anything to add beyond what I mentioned at the agenda committee last Tuesday. The silt fence is up, which I know you have been watching. And they do have their grading permit. Other than that, the retention pond is not complete. The enforcement status is not contingent on zoning. It can be enforced regardless of what district this property is zoned in. What are you all thinking? That's your award. guess my my biggest concern in this since we're talking land use and zoning not a particular Development here is just as I look at compatible compatibility on this one We're already seeing it used in the zone that that we're asking to change it to in a way. That's not particularly compatible now whether or not the The use or the site preparation is what's rendering it incompatible there. That's kind of why I've been waiting to see if we were going to remediate that. But... Mean we've we've gone through three readings and I'm glad to know that we can Address enforcement of the the drainage issues separate from this. So I'm still a little little hesitant just because This is an expansion closer to two residential areas of A dirt lot basically Is the African here Thank You mr. Mayor In this case, I mean if this were a new business or if there's somebody from out of town But the Williams family has been doing business in Fayetteville and paying us sales taxes for a lot a lot of years And I would give them the benefit of the doubt if they say they're gonna do it I would trust they do it and our experience should tell us that that they're trustworthy That we should go ahead and let them do this even though I agree with Kyle. It's a little bit a Not compatible with single-family residence, but the use has been they've been using that for years You know, so it's not like they're springy thing You don't anybody and it's just bringing them into compliance with what our code requires So I'd be in favor of us going ahead and voting on it. Thank you Any other comments from council public comment do we have on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council Okay, all right Senator, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Patch. Yes. Luttre. Yes. Smith. No. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Okay, thank you all. All right, moving to new business. Number one, an ordinance to vacate a portion of a utility easement in Phase 2 of the Oaksbrook subdivision. Kitton. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas a portion of a house located at 3995 West Starry Night View, which is scheduled for an imminent closing, has been constructed within an easement and unless the easement is vacated, clear and markable title to the property cannot be conveyed. And whereas pursuant to Section 171.06E of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code, a request to vacate a public easement need not be presented to the Planning Commission before being submitted to the City Council as long as the City Council makes certain findings by a vote of at least two-thirds of its membership and the Mayor. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1... that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds pursuant to Section 171-06-E1 of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code that the public utility easement shown on the map attached as Exhibit A and described in Exhibit B does not contain any utilities within the area to be vacated. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds pursuant to Section 171-06-E2 of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code that because of the imminent closing scheduled for the subject property, special circumstances exist which require prompt consideration of the vacation request and justify bypassing the Planning Commission. Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a utility easement as described and shown in exhibits a and B attached to this ordinance and Section 4 copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map and legal description attached exhibit a and B Shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Sir clerk It was actually councilmember I know, but I figured you might have some sort of opinion on it. I do have a map and I can show. This is Ruppel Road and the Eastmont that is subject to vacation tonight is located right at Starry Night Road. And there's a house built on top of it, as Kit mentioned. There's another easement that is being discussed in relationship to a lot line adjustment at this location, but it isn't part of the ordinance that's in front of you tonight. If I'd be happy to answer any questions, I have the ordinance and I can talk about what's required, a finding that the two findings that council needs to make. When I looked at this, the activity associated with this property, it was evident that with the certificate of occupancy and all the approval of the planning division during the building of this home, that it appears that it may have been an oversight from the city, nothing intentional, that this property was not vacated. And in order to allow the property owner to close on this property, an adjacent property, I think he'll mention this in his presentation, we need to go ahead and get this taken care of. There is supportive documents that show that… It was in good faith that this was built here and that there was an understanding that the easement had been taken care of it had been surveyed the Police and fire or utilities Had already signed off that there was no urgent need to protect this easement and so I felt like that in order for the landowner to to move forward and close on the property because there is an offer on the table that we should offer the courtesy to go ahead and take care of this through the city council okay yeah and here they want you want to say anything trace i'm derek thomas with bates and associates um i'm going to explain a little bit about how all this happened and kind of what's going on. In 2011, we were hired by Mr. Hoskins to replat several of the lots in Oak Brook subdivision, which was previously platted as a PZD in two separate phases in 2008 and 2010. An RPZD, which you all probably know, is a process in which the developer presents a preliminary plan showing items such as lot configurations, lot areas, building setbacks, and utility easements. City staff and the utility companies then work through a process to present the plat to Subdivision Committee, Planning Commission, and City Council. UDC Chapter 166.02 Development Review Process states that a PZD cannot be approved by the Planning Commission, but may be forwarded to the City Council. Like I mentioned, we were hired to replat portions of Oak Brook, which is an RPZD. Chapter 16601, under development categories, subdivision of land, states the four definitions for a lot split, preliminary plat, final plat, and concurrent plat. There is no mention of the definition of a replat in what we were intending to do with Oak Brook. Since there seems to be no formal procedure for the replat of a PZD in the code, no one was at fault for the oversight that these projects should have gone to City Council for approval. And if they would have, we would not be here tonight. In the time between 2011 and the present, several homes have been permitted, built, and given CFO on top of the previously platted easements which we thought were abandoned and vacated. It's apparent that we have all been under the impression for many years that all necessary procedures have been taken for the approval of these projects and there were no issues. We're simply asking City Council to accept the replath prepared by Bates and Associates for the Oak Brook RPZD, which revised, removed, and vacated previously planted easements, revised building setbacks, and accepted the new easements and setbacks. were previously approved by planning staff engineering all utility companies and the Planning Commission mr. Hoskins and I can now answer any questions that you guys might have for this okay what questions we had counsel for staff anything mark okay at the suggestion of Bates and associates it's it is to go ahead and accept the total replant Which is more than just this vacation. Is that correct? That is correct. I don't know if we need to do that in two separate votes, that maybe we present the easement vacation. You need to call your attention to your own Unified Development Code. There are three findings that you must make in order to bypass the Planning Commission and make the decision here. And certainly for the house that's about to be sold and needs to have the easement underneath it removed, you have met that. But 171.06 says that it must require such prompt consideration that it's not going to be reasonable and it will justify bypassing the planning commission. I think that for the other particular vacations, it would be better to use our standard procedure and just have them file vacations of these easements like you've seen many times that come before you. Just a month or so ago, we had another situation where you had to vacate some easements because they were about to do some development on the property. But of course, as normal, it went through the Planning Commission. Everybody signed off on it and then it was brought here in a regular ordinance. So I think because your code only allows you to take this extraordinary measure of bypassing the Planning Commission and immediately vacate an easement, I think you need to follow the requirements of that particular code section. And one of those is that it requires prompt consideration that would justify bypassing the planning commission. That's true in this one case. But I don't think at this point in time you've been presented evidence that it'd be any more than just more convenient for the owner to do that. But I'll defer to Garner Stoll, our development services director, about what the normal procedure is and whether or not there's a justification here to bypass it. Well, first, let me address the procedures. Planned Zoning District require more details in order to get it approved. The Planned Zoning District doesn't plat the property. It still needs to be platted like any other parcel of ground. This land was platted and it showed these easements. And there was a complicated, almost four different plats in this area. No fault there. It just was complicated and took the area developed slowly. So it's got a complicated platting history. Under Fayetteville's process, you can dedicate rights-of-ways and easements through a plat. A plat is approved by the Planning Commission. The Ordinance 176. 106 is very specific that only the council can vacate and it has two processes it has a long process which is we have to get petitions from the utility companies we have to send the item to the Planning Commission and then playing Commission has to make a recommendation and then council has to prove and then it has an exception and the exception says that the vacation request need not be presented to the Planning Commission before being submitted to the City Council if the City Council finds the following by a vote of at least two-thirds of its membership and the mayor. The public easement or rights away to be vacated has not been constructed or has not been used by the public for at least five years, or the easement does not contain any utilities within the area to be vacated, and... Special circumstances exist which require prompt consideration of the vacation request and justify the bypass of the planning commission. So if you prove this tonight, you clearly have a special circumstance. You have a closing. And you can accept, I think, the applicant's representation that no utilities have been there for five years. Okay. The other easements I think are typical vacations, and I would caution you against opening the shortcut route because everybody's going to want to do the shortcut. And we need to make sure that these easements aren't needed. And there are many different agencies out there that use public easements these days, more and more and more. There's cable and telephone and gas, electricity and so I would caution against the exception route as a typical route unless there's some pending short timeline that needs to have an exception which I think mr. Hoskins has demonstrated mr. mayor if I could say one other thing you all make the rules you all adopted and enacted the Unified Development Code you created over your predecessors did but anyway the City Council enacted this particular code section What the Supreme Court tells us and what it told cities before, you don't have to do that. But if you do do that, you have to follow the rules until they are repealed or enacted or amended or something else. And so this is the rule right now that you've set forward. And so you would have to find by two-thirds vote, six votes. that in fact special circumstances exist which require the prompt consideration this vacation request and justify bypassing a planning commission I think it's obvious that the city agrees with your initial request because you do have special circumstances but I just don't see the special circumstances justifying bypassing the normal procedures we have with the Planning Commission and just eventually getting back up here it'll take a little while but not too long and and handling it as we do all the other easement vacation requests that come before the council mr. mayor can I comment sure we are in no way trying to streamline the process or avoid the Planning Commission the Planning Commission has actually approved all four of our replant 2011, two in 2014, and one in 2016, accepting new and relocated easements. So we have that covered. Planning Commission, we went through the Tech Plat Review, met with city staff, all utilities, engineering. These plats were done, approved, recorded, and to our knowledge, everything was completed as we were supposed to. Now, GIS still shows these easements as per the previous original plats of Oak Brook, and that's the only reason that we're here. No one will accept that the replat took care of all of the previous easements. We actually created new easements, made easements different widths. Everything was totally changed. So we're not bypassing the Planning Commission or trying to streamline the process. I understand the easement vacation process and how it works. That's intended for a guy that's trying to build a pool, and he needs to reduce his easement by five feet. We're talking about multiple, multiple easements that were changed and a whole lot of work that we thought was already done to take care of that many years ago. Okay, Mark. I'm trying to wrap my head around this because – It seems to me like since there is already property on these easements that has been developed and from the point of view of a person that depends on listing and selling something that you've already invested in and built, there could be an offer come down tomorrow because these are already built. They are there. There is a situation where It does seem urgent from the point of view of someone that has spent their money, and they've gone through a process since 2011, and no one caught it until today. I think that somehow there is a sense of urgency. If I were the one that had built and developed and had my money tied up in property that I needed to move, and there's a housing shortage, and we know that properties don't stay listed, for a very long period of time in the city, and I would hate for anyone that has gone through this process, because it has been in front of the Planning Commission, to be in some way deprived of the opportunity to get a return on their investment, because time is money. And so since time is money and it's already built, it seems to me like there is a sense of urgency here so that the property owner can... get on with their business. I don't know. I'm trying to wrap my head around it, but that's how I see it from a... I don't think it's any secret to anyone here. I do home loans, and you've got... Time is money, and there are people that are trying to move forward to get these homes onto the market because we're in a crisis situation as far as the number of homes in inventory here in the city of Fayetteville. So... I guess whenever I looked at the information that I was provided and I saw that there was evidence that it had been through the process that it went through early on that We should have caught this as a city a long time ago and offered some type of assurance that this property could be built And we did offer an assurance It was everything they've done has been approved and they got the certificate of occupancy so for all intents and purposes, these are homes that are ready to move with a sense of urgency. The way I'm looking at it from a banking and finance and from a developer's point of view and with the conditions we have, with the lack of inventory of homes, and I would like to... I want an assurance that we're doing the right thing, but it... Seems to me like we should go ahead and move along with the total request if at all possible. And I think there is a possibility, but I don't want us to get – this is not setting a precedent. I think that that's an invalid argument. This is a specific situation. So that's how I look at it. Okay. John. I agree with Councilmember Kenyon. And I think it's hard for us to come back after we've approved the PLAAFs, issued the building permits, issued the certificates of occupancy. It's hard to come back and cry foul now. I think just a plain sense of fair play, we should go ahead and grant this. I can see special circumstances, just as Council Member Kenyon points out. Mr. Hoskins has money invested in these lots. We have a shortage of housing. We have people moving in every day to northwest Arkansas, most of them coming to Paineville. And the plots have already been approved. The plots have been reviewed. I mean, there's something to be said for going through the motion and the correct procedure, but we're kind of doing this all after the fact. It's already there on the ground. It's kind of like our position with the previous issue. Let's just go ahead and be done with it and let this man go on about his business. So I can find that, and I can agree with you, Mark. Thank you. Okay. Kyle. I guess I'm still learning about this process. Okay. I know that our GIS maps show where water and sewer lines are. How do we know where gas, telephone, electricity, how do we know which easements have been used for those and which haven't? When there's a vacation request, they're sent to all the agencies and there's a form that they sign that they're no longer using the easements. Yeah, the easements actually show up not the lines themselves normally as much as the easement show up the public utility easements I should also note there's there is a little fly in the ointment of trying to get everything done tonight We have a legal description of one easement We don't have legal descriptions of the other easements. We don't uh, you know, they have not gone through the process And I don't want to argue with you commissioner or council member tinion, but If there was evidence that they were about to sell a house, I guess we would have heard it. We didn't hear anything like that. We heard they're going to sell one house, and that's the one that we're trying to take care of. The other stuff, we don't even know if any of them are on the market. There might just be people living there, so there's no rush whatsoever. And yet you need to find, according to your own code, that there are special circumstances which require prompt consideration, not just because it's going to be easier or we can get it all done that night, But the city council said it must require prompt consideration, and that puts a little burden on the petitioner saying, well, why? Except we know it's going to be easier for them. But is there some special circumstances that would justify the city council from doing that rather than just like, well, housing is short? Because they really have the duty, I think, of presenting the special circumstances, and they did in one case, but they haven't in the rest. I had one bit of informational council and it's not to argue one side or the other it's for information for future applicants Our checklist for preliminary flats and concurrent flats as the applicant to show existing Easements, which is just good business. Of course, you would ask for that if you're replanting properties already planted and This particular plan didn't do that. It omitted it. Now, we have to jointly own this. The applicant should have submitted the information on the plat of the existing easements, not just the easements that they're wanting in the future, but the existing easement. And the staff should have reviewed it against that checklist and found those easements. As far as I can tell, neither one of those steps were completed. So I think it's a real simple solution, which is we just take an application for vacation, we send it to the utility companies, we get a response, and we get it through the process as quickly as we can. Yes. So it sounded like by listening to Bates & Associates and from what I agree with what Mark said and what John said, but you're the property owner, right? Yes, sir. So I would like to ask him a question on... the conditions here for you. This is, I mean, I don't want to presume that this is just easy for you. I think you're not doing it because it's easy. You're doing it because you need it. So would you mind just giving kind of a quick overview, please? Absolutely. Where this all came about was we had applied for a property line adjustment to be able to submit a building permit for a custom house for a client. That's when we learned that this former easement supposedly existed. Of course, I argued, no, it doesn't exist. We got rid of all that way back when. And so that particular project has held up. We cannot file for a building permit on that project. We're in the middle of that right now. And then after this came to attention, I thought, well, if they think that one's still there, I wonder what they think about all the other ones. And sure enough, it's not. So I started checking, I checked City GIS and sure enough, we've got a lot of easements underneath houses. It's not just one house, the house that Kent mentioned, that house closes tomorrow morning. So yeah, that is a very, very important thing. Okay, but it's also underneath one, two, two other houses that are currently on the market. And, um, um, and my initial request to the city's attorney's city attorney's office was not for just this one house. I sent him the information on all of the easements when he got to agenda. That's when I heard that he had parsed it down to the one because he felt like, assume he felt like that was the only one that was, was critical. Well, no, they're all critical. We have houses built over easements and all these houses are for sale. This one that closed tomorrow went under contract November 21st. or something like that. It was a very, very quick closing when we're seeing more and more of those. So this process, which again, I will reiterate, we have already been through this entire process that is required by code back in 2011. 12, 13, 16 or what have you, when we went through and revamped different areas of Obrook, we've already been through the process. And we have already resubmitted plats. And all these plats were signed off by all the utility companies who we addressed these at Tech Plat, subdivision and planning commission. Had we been told at the time, oh, by the way, there is one more step. You've got to go to city council. We would have done it. I mean, we've been doing this for years. Why would we avoid that? Okay. And so, and so the, the plants that resubmitted, I will agree with Garner. They are supposed to show these easements, setbacks, et cetera. And the plants that were signed off by the city and all the utility companies and the planning commission. Show all the easements he refers to, the easements that were revamped. The reason the old easements don't show on there is because they no longer exist. So you don't show things on a plant that no longer exist. And so this was a great surprise to us, especially considering we had gotten building permits on, what, three, four houses that sat atop easements and then certificates of occupancy. And so whenever we got held up with this very simple property line adjustment, You know, it's I mean, I'm just glad we thought about going ahead and looking and seeing if any of these other reasons were underneath houses. Sure enough, they were. So again, we're not trying to circumvent anything. We'll go through the process. We have gone through the process on this. All we're asking tonight is just to take that extra step. Granted, Kit's right, the one that closes tomorrow morning, that is the most important thing here. We definitely need to get that done. However, what Garner is asking us to do, we've already done and done it multiple times. And we also have the sign plates to prove it. So thank you. And passing this ordinance tonight, I mean, I think – We do a good job in this city of having all these restrictions because we don't, it does make it a little more difficult sometimes, but I think there's reasons for it. But when there are circumstances like this, and I agree with the financial aspect of this, it's easy to say, well, you're not in a hurry. Who's to say that if you wouldn't have had to put up with all this, you wouldn't be further along in the marketing process or the sales process of some of the other things. So I can't make that assumption, and I think there is enough here to make an exception to do something like this. So I would agree with, I think, John and – And Mark on this. One thing I failed to add or whatever, something that the city attorney said a moment ago that, well, it'd be, it would be kind of a slippery slope to, to, Vacate all the other easements because we don't have the legal descriptions or whatever etc Actually, we forwarded that to the city attorney's office and I brought all the all copies tonight the engineer the engineering company went ahead Just in case this came up to make sure that we had the exact documentation We needed to be able to vacate all these months. So saying this to you if you don't my passenger Thanks I have another question. Okay. Mark, yes. Mr. Hoskins, you mentioned that also on the other lot that you have a contract to build a custom home. Is that correct? Yes, sir. But we're delaying you from moving forward and getting that taken care of. So to me, that is a person that is in good faith. found property they want to build on, and they're just waiting so that we can move forward to get property built on that lot. And I know that, again, to me that sounds like a sense of urgency because these are people that have already agreed on a contract with your company and with the expectation that this was going to happen so that they could get... moving forward on building a custom home. I just wanted, but that is all, you've already got that in line and lined up with the consumer that is looking at building the custom. That was the purpose for the property line adjustment. Okay. Anything else, Mark? That's all. Okay. I'm just trying to wrap my head around it. Okay. I don't want to get in trouble, but I want to do the right thing. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Two things. How do you designate these lots? I counted 10 lots on your two exhibits. Are they lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 through 10? Do you have numbers for these? How do you designate? Which lots do you want us to grant this waiver for? They should be labeled on the flat. So the one under the house that closes tomorrow is for lot 39B. 39B. 39B. 37A is the property line adjustment that we're trying to start a new home on. 37A. 37B. B. On the easement vacation exhibit number two, we have lot 23A, existing home, lot 23B, existing home, and lot 24 with an existing home. So we have one, two, three, four, five lots affected by an easement that we thought was closed but wasn't. By an old easement. Yes, sir. I hate to disagree with my good friend Kit Williams, but the city council is not bound by what you draft. We can pass a motion. We can amend this motion to grant the relief on these lots so designated and then Mr. Williams can get the legal descriptions tomorrow and draft it up. Okay. Don't think that's a fine. You want the kid? I think it would be a mistake to do that if you if the City Council's position is that they want to bypass the Planning Commission and grant the rest of these Easements to be vacated without going to the Planning Commission then we can use these legal descriptions with a new ordinance that we can have for you at the next meeting and At this meeting, I believe you should pass the one in front of you that is absolutely essential, that we know is correct, that we won't have to draft tomorrow while they're waiting to get closed. Get it all drafted and figure out what it says and try to get it to the mayor for a signature, which might not be tomorrow. It might be the day after or so. so my suggestion if the city council believes that there is an emergency situation here justifying the bypassing the planning commission then pass this one tonight and instruct us to draft an ordinance that would in fact vacate the other easements at the next city council meeting okay um so if we were to past the one that is trying to sell tomorrow and we're to send the others back through the process that kid is Telling us that we should do what would be just a basic time frame that we would be looking at if we did that If you use the exception, that's your next council meeting do weeks two weeks If you don't do the exception it is the Planning Commission doesn't meet until January and Okay. I'll speak to that. And then it would have to be two weeks before planning, get on the agenda, that sort of thing? I'll comment to that. Yeah. If we are kicked back to the standard easement vacation process, there's a full application. It has to go reviewed by every single utility company. It has to be marked and surveyed in the field. Every utility company and all adjoining property owners have to agree to it. we do these all the time and it can take three to six months so the standard easement vacation process is a long drawn out tedious process it's not just we come back to city council and you vote on it that's our emergency i just want to make a quick comment so if the council does this because it sounds like that's kind of where the consensus of this is going i'd like the minutes to clearly reflect the exception because that very reason you just heard is what we will hear from everyone who wants to do it to not go through that process so I think they've given an argument tonight about why we may want to go down that road but I think we need a very clear minutes notification that this is not a can of worms that we want to open up that allows anyone to bypass the situation or it will happen all the time one bit of information we we've changed our checklist so we're now as of today where it asks for showing the existing easements it provides instructions that if there are easements or rights aways to be vacated that that can be processed to the Planning Commission simultaneous with the plant but it needs to go on to the council so we're trying to streamline the process for the future I understand that doesn't resolve this issue Okay, Mark. Well, again, changing a checklist for the future does not change the issue we're faced with currently. And I'm glad there's a change in a checklist and it can be streamlined. And unfortunately, this is what it took to do that. Kit, I kind of have a question. Whenever I read that, and I don't have it in front of me, it doesn't say emergency, Is that right? Yes, that's what the code says. Special circumstances exist which require prompt consideration of a vacation request justified by bypassing the planning commission. So, to me that doesn't... preclude the arguments that we've heard here tonight as long as we do get it justified. We do make it clear in our arguments and in our presentation this is an exception to the rule, and not only is it an exception to the rule, but because of this, we've changed the standard procedures in which we move forward. So we pretty well outlined that this is an exceptional circumstance. There is a element of urgency and that in order to prevent this in the future we have adjusted our standard operating procedure so I think in the way that I think which isn't like a lot of people think I get that I think that we are covering our bases I really do and I guess right at this point I would like to move forward with granting the The motion that is on the floor and voting on that with the assurance that we'll come back and look at this as soon as possible. I won't be here for the next city council meeting, but I certainly would like to think that we're not going to let this linger. Thanks. No, I think we can. If it's the city council's. decision that we should Vacate all of these without going to the back to the Planning Commission Use this exception then we will prepare my office will prepare an ordinance that would do the remainder of these Easements for the next City Council meeting now it might not go out in your tentative agenda, which goes out tomorrow But it will go out before your final agenda so we can get that to you in For your decision on the 18th and then I'll know we have the proper ordinance the proper descriptions not worried about What's a lot number or whatever? We'll have everything down so there won't be any confusion or any mistake And so I I certainly think if that's what you all want to do and I don't we can't really take a straw vote but if you all would like to see another ordinance like this at your next meeting that then that's what we'll do, and we'll present that to you at the next meeting. But I do think we need to pass this one tonight because they've got a closing coming up. Okay. One more. Okay. All right. It sounds like we may have already moved past my questions. Don't ask me away. You're talking about having to redo all the surveys. Those were done once, right? Would they have to be done again for the standard vacation process? Something similar to the exhibits that we've already prepared. When I say survey, the utility companies make us mark the location of all these easements so they can come out and see or check their maps and say, no, we don't have utilities in here. That's already been done through Planning Commission many years ago. So... That shouldn't be a requirement. So it has been done. The surveys wouldn't have to be redone, but you'd have to remarket for the utility companies? Correct. Okay. I understand. And since we're not talking about emergency but just special circumstances, I guess I understand that the one that's selling tomorrow is a pretty clear special circumstance. The ones that already have existing houses on them. But it looks like the ones on your lot 37B, those are not built yet, correct? Correct. That's the property line adjustment that is currently under construction. Oh, it is? It has been permitted on top of that easement. Okay. So there's work happening on it. It's just not showing on any of our stuff yet. There's work going on there. It's just not on our imagery because it's new. Correct. Okay. Thanks. That's what I wanted to know. Okay. Well, do we have any public comment on this? Okay. Okay. Okay, okay. Slon Scroggin, I live at 3509 North St. Piper. I'm really hoping that y'all can move this forward. I come from a family of builders and the fear of having rubber stamps that came in the past going away is a legitimate concern. And even if those go away, quickly going through the process to get those stamps back, I think is important. I mean, people have told me that I put my development inside of the Fayetteville School District, but I made sure it wasn't inside of the Fayetteville City Limits is something I hear, and that's a concern. And so I hope that we can move this along. I believe it's a special circumstance. This is damaging him. So hopefully we can get this moved along. Thank you. What other public comment do we have? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. So, John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We have granted building permits. We have issued certificates of occupancy for houses that are built on top of utility easements that have not been vacated or somehow. Surely that's a special circumstance. Surely that's not a routine event in our city. So I think we have very special circumstances here. And I guess what I want to know about this, I'm all for, as Kit suggests, pass this and then wait two weeks and pass another ordinance at our next meeting. Do we need an amendment to this? No, you just need to pass this one. And my understanding, looking at you all kind of, I don't know if you're nodding out or we're actually agreeing, that we should have another ordinance for the rest of the easements for the next meeting. Thank you. Okay, Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Adele. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Oh, got it. Tenant. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to vacate a portion of the utility easement in Phase 2 of Oak Brook Subdivision. I motion to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Yes. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Saunders, please call the roll. Motion to suspend. I'm sorry. Hinnant. Yes. Saunders. Yes. Lutero. Yes. Smith. Yes. Yes. Hinnant. Yes. Eddy. Yes. An ordinance to vacate a portion of the utility easement in Phase 2 of Oak Brook Subdivision. Any final comments from the council? Seeing none, Saunders, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes okay that's the first order that was number one on new business now we go to number two we're gonna start rolling now mayor Thank you. We could have built a house by now. All right, number two. In order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 18-6398 for approximately 19.15 acres located northwest of Rupert Road and Alberta Street from R&A Residential Agricultural and NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU. residential intermediate urban RSF 18, residential single family 18 units per acre, NC neighborhood conservation and RA residential agricultural kit. Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one. that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from residential agricultural neighborhood conservation residential intermediate urban residential single family 18 units per acre NC neighborhood conservation and RA residential agricultural Section 2 that City Council city of favor actually hereby amends Official zoning map of city of favor to collect is only change provided in section 1. Okay Yes mayor, this is located west of Rupel Road it the history of it, I think you those of you who were on the council and I 2015 will remember a large rezoning application that was processed to adjust the zoning to anticipate Rupert Road being constructed. And the districts that were used in about 600 acres were neighborhood conservation, community services, and RA agriculture for the floodplain. A little bit of UT at MLK and where Rupert Road intersects with MLK So it was anticipating a large area large vacant area for the future And it was painting with a broad brush and at that time There was discussion. I understand with property owners that as plants and developments come through the process and A finer grain approach will be taken which is consistent with our plan which means we really do want a variety of housing types and uses in these areas. So I think this is consistent with that goal. You can see the traditional town planning town site lots and blocks that are being processed in the plat fronting Ruppel Road. The request tonight is to take a portion of the RA district, which is presently mapped in the floodplain, which is this little line right here, and zone it RSF 18 and NC to RSF 18, a step down from this community services district along Rupert Road using their RIU district in this location. and constructing their retention pond in a large flat area in this location, which is why the adjustment is being made of this floodplain. It is, the engineering, the applicants engineer can explain this to you, but it is a floodplain that really doesn't have precise elevations at this point. It's very flat, and that adjustment probably works pretty well. So the adopted plans you're familiar with, it's designated residential neighborhood. It encourages a variety of residential types. The floodplain is designated as a natural area. Almost all of it is being retained in the RA district, and in fact, that district is getting larger with this change. I mentioned the 2015 area-wide zoning and the floodplain issues. Planning Commission and staff recommend approval of this request and I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. Is the applicant here? Good evening, I'm Blake Murray with Engineering Services. I'm the engineer on the project. Happy to answer any questions you all have. I think Garner did a pretty good job of summarizing everything. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. The pond has been modeled with the current floodplain. We've moved those zoning lines accordingly where we've modeled the floodplain and the pond modeling associated with it. We've worked with city engineering staff, and preliminarily they're approving it, and planning commission approved it unanimously. So happy to answer questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council? Okay. Thank you. All right. What public comment do we have on this? All right. I'll bring it back to the council. John. I'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Mark. I second that. We have a motion and a second. Coming. Go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6398. for approximately 19 acres located northwest of Rupert Road and Alberta Street from R.A. Residential Agricultural and N.C. Neighborhood Conservation to R.I.U. Residential Intermediate Urban, R.S.F. 18 Residential Single Family, 18 units per acre, N.C. Neighborhood Conservation, and R.A. Residential Agricultural. And so, Adele? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Yes. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. French. Yes. LeTour. Yes. Smith. Yes. Wright. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in Resolving Petition RZN 18-6398 for approximately 19.15 acres, located northwest of Rupert Road and Alberta Street, from R.A. Residential Agricultural and N.C. Neighborhood Conservation to R.I.U. Residential Intermediate Urban, R.S.F. 18, Residential Single Family, 18 units per acre, N.C. Neighborhood Conservation, and R.A. Residential Agricultural. Yes, sir. Okay. Yeah, we're ready to go. All right. Are you ready to go? Yep. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the line? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number three. Number three. In order to approve Vacation 18-64, 16th and property located west of 2122 West Moore Lane in the Springwoods. commercial plan zoning district to vacate a portion of utility easements. Ken. Whereas the city council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the city council has determined that the following described portions of utility easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1... that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portions of utility easements described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk Along with a map attached as exhibit a to the planning department's memo Shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk Section 3 that this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities Shall be at the owner developers expense Yes, mayor This was a little easier than the last one, I hope. It's located just north of Moore Lane, north of Williams Tractor, which you dealt with earlier tonight, and it's a developing subdivision, and it does have a remnant easement that needs to be vacated. None of the responding agencies need this easement, and Planning Commission staff recommend approval with the standard condition. Okay, any questions regarding this? Okay. Any public comment? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Does that include the applicant? Oh, sorry. I forgot. Is that going to have anything? Yeah, please. Sorry. I got in a hurry. I sure hate being the third vacated easement, but I'll take it. I'm Jonathan Millian with the RLP, with the developer. But Mr. Stahl said it all. Basically what we're doing here, this was already approved on the preliminary plat. We're just cleaning up some vacated easements here. All utility departments and franchise utilities have signed off on vacating easements. And there's no utility easements dedicated to that. I'm sorry, there isn't any utilities in these easements either. And new utility easements have been dedicated to facilitate services for this subdivision. So we just hope that it gets approved and move on to final apply to this subdivision. I think that was good, bringing those utility easements in here. It's good. Okay. Any questions for the applicant or guarder? Okay. Any public comment? Did I ask for that? Yes, I did, didn't I? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? John? I move we suspend the rules and go to second reading. Okay. Kyle? Second. We have a motion. I don't have a motion button. Hang on. We've got Sarah Bunch. All right, Sarah, are you the motioner now? I don't know. You can. There we go. Now everything's fine. All right. There we go. Now everything's good. Technology. That's right. Makes it a lot faster for us. All right. Please call the line. Kenneth? Yes. Blanche? Yes. Latour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Bride? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes. Yes. And it orders to approve VAC 18-6416 for property located west of 2122 Westmore Lane in the Springwoods Commercial Plan Zoning District to vacate portions of utility easements. Okay, John. No? Kyle. I'll motion to suspend the rules and go to the third reading then. All right. John. I second that motion. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. I'll need you to please call the roll. Can I get the motion to move that, please? I thought we had Kyle in there. No, I've got to get the motion. They were knocking me out for putting 30. Oh, I see. I see. Okay. All right. They're fighting us left and right. We're having problems with the buttons tonight. Okay. Janet. Yes. Bench. Yes. Butcher. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Yes. Annurance approved VAC 18-6416 for a property located west of 2122 Westmore Lane in the Springwoods Commercial Plan Zoning District to vacate portions of utility easements. Okay, is there any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Batch? Yes. Leger? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Warren? Okay. Number four. An order is waived that requirements for competitive bidding and approved cost share agreement with RPALLC for the installation of sewer main along a portion of Sequoia Drive between Rex Drive and Company Street with the estimated amount to be paid to the city of Federal not to exceed $80,041.67 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $8,004.17. Kenton. Whereas RPA LLC will be developing property located at 500 and 504 North Sequoia Drive and has requested that the city share in the cost of constructing an 8-inch sewer main along a portion of Sequoia Drive between Rex Drive and Company Street, a distance of approximately 608 feet. And whereas the City of Fayetteville will benefit from the cost share as it will facilitate infill development and will provide for ample future capacity, which the City recognizes will be necessary for the area that is served by this sewer main. And whereas section 51.113 of the Fayetteville City Code provides that the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size larger than required to service subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the sewerage system. and whereas waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contractor who will be on-site installing the line for the developer's project now therefore be ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section one that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with RPA LLC for the installation of an 8-inch sewer main along a portion of Sequoia Drive between Rex Drive and Company Street, with an estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $80,041.67 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $8,004.17. Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I would like to add to what Kit said was of the 600 feet, approximately 200 of the feet is along the property frontage owned by RPA LLC and the remaining 400 linear feet or two-thirds is available for future capacity which will be necessary if there's future development in the area. RPA had received two bids and several no bids for the proposed sanitary sewer improvements, and a bid for Mission Contractors of Fayetteville has been determined to be the lowest and best bid at $108,002.50. Engineering fees are expected to be $12,000, and two-thirds of this amount is $80,041.67. Staff does recommend the approval of this cost share in the not to exceed amount of $80,041.67. And the city, if approved, will reimburse RPA for the agreed upon amount after construction on the project is complete and inspections have been passed. Funds are available in the water sewer impact fee cost sharing project fund. Okay. A question I have from the city council on that, okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Let's bring it back to the council. Mark. This did go to the Water Sewer Committee, and we did unanimously move to bring it with recommendation of approval. Therefore, I would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. John. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $80,041.67 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $8,004.17. Okay. And so, I move we go to the third and final reading. John. I second that motion. If the motion is seconded, we go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed $80,041.67 and to approve the project contingency in the amount of $8,004.17. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Tenant. Yes. Lunch. Yes. Maternal. Yes. Yes. Right. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number five. an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and approve the cost share agreement with eric a long and robert a long for the installation of water and sewer remains along a portion of north tanglewood avenue for the estimated amount to be paid by the city of feville not to exceed 32 653.62 and approved project contingency in the amount of 3 365.37 Yes. Whereas Eric A. Long and Robert A. Long will be developing properly located at 434 and 478 North Tanglewood Avenue and proposed middle lot with no address and have requested that the city share in the cost of constructing a two-inch water main and an eight-inch sewer main along a portion of North Tanglewood Avenue, a distance of approximately 129 feet. And whereas the city of Fayetteville would benefit from a cost share as it will facilitate infill development and will provide for ample future capacity, which the city recognizes will be necessary for the area that is served by the water and sewer mains. And whereas section 51.112 of the Fayetteville City Code provides that the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size that is larger than required to serve the subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the water system. and whereas section 151.113 of the fable city code provides that the city shall pay the excess material cost and facilities of a size larger than required to service subdivision when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the sewerage system and whereas waiving formal competitive bidding will save time and cost by utilizing the developer's contract who will be on-site installing the line for the developer's project. Now, therefore, it being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with Eric A. Long and Robert A. Long for the installation of a two-inch water main and an eight-inch sewer main along a portion of North Tanglewood Avenue, with an estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $33,653.62, and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $3,365.37. Thank you, Mayor and Council. The applicants have asked for a 50% cost share on this project. Three bids were received, the lowest bidder. was Blazing Hogs Construction, LLC, in the amount of $40,500. Engineering is estimated to be $26,807.24. The City of Fayetteville's portion would be $33,653.62, with a 10% contingency of $3,365.37. The city will reimburse Eric A. Long and Robert E. Long for the agreed upon amount after construction of the project is complete and inspections have been passed. Funds for this project are available in the water sewer impact fee cost sharing project. What questions do we have for Tim? Mark, does it go through water and sewer? Yes, with a recommendation to approve. Okay. Okay. Any questions for Tim on this? Matthew? Yeah, just a quick question. I'm looking at the image here, and it looks like a portion of both the water line and the sewer line are outside the right-of-way on the parcels. Is that just something that's missing on the map, or is there something unique going on here? Well, we did take it into the right-of-way. I think it's just on the map that way. It was kind of free-drawn. Okay. Good catch, man. Anything else? What public comment do we have on this? All right. We'll bring it back to the council. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I second that. Okay. Do we have any other comments? No. That's okay. One of these days they'll figure me out. Cool. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kinnett? Yes. Batch? Yes. LaTour? Yes. Smith? Yes. McBride? Yes. ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Eric a long and Robert a long for the installation of water and sewer mains along a portion of North Tanglewood Avenue with the estimated amount to be paid by the city of Fayetteville not to exceed thirty three thousand six hundred and fifty three dollars and sixty two cents and to approve a project contingency an amount of three thousand three hundred and sixty five dollars and thirty seven cents I move we go to the third and final reading. I second that motion. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Eric A. Long and Robert A. Long for the installation of water and sewer mains along a portion of North Tanglewood Avenue with the estimated amount to be paid by the City of Fayetteville not to exceed $33,653.62. and to approve a project contingency amount of $3,365.37. Do we have any final comments from the council? All right. So I'm going to just please call the roll. Tenant. Yes. Pants. Yes. Materia. Yes. Yes. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number six. In ordinance, the way the requirements are formed compared to the bidding and approved contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in any amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2019. Kit. Whereas providing quality recreational opportunities to the youth and citizens of our community is of mutual interest to the City of Fayetteville and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated. And whereas the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated and the City of Fayetteville have had a close working relationship for many years, and this relationship allows for a continuity of services vital to the efficient provision of recreational opportunities. And whereas were it not for the services offered by the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated, the City of Fayetteville would be required to assume the duty of providing staff, programming, promotion, and development for youth recreational services. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds that the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2019. Hi, Connie Edmondson, Director of Fayetteville Parks and Recreation. I also have up here with me is Eric Schultz. He's the Executive Director of the Fayetteville Boys and Girls Club. This is a partnership that we have had with the Fayetteville Boys and Girls Club since 1967. So over 50 years, we've had a working relationship with each other. Within our contract, we have a working agreement that helps us avoid duplication or competition between programs between the two organizations. It is the intent for both of us to work together to provide the best parks and recreational programs for our citizens. The agreement is very similar to what we had in 2018. The Boys and Girls Club is designated as an emergency shelter should we need one, and they have helped us in several situations, and it's been a great relationship. So we do recommend that you approve this contract, and I believe Eric has a few words. Good evening, Eric. Good evening. Just a couple words. I wanted to thank the City Council and the City of Fayetteville for their support over, as Connie had mentioned, for 50 years. It's quite a relationship we've had. Parks and Recreation and the Boys and Girls Club, as Connie mentioned, we meet once a year as a staff and we discuss ways that we can work together to better serve citizens. And the Boys and Girls Club itself, just to give you an idea of some of the things that we've been up to, we serve every day after school 600 plus kids. We also, in addition to that, we have activities, programs, sports that we offer. We offer... One of the things in our agreement is to offer an opportunity for kids that cannot afford programs and opportunity to participate in our programs. We do that. We provide, this year I think we'll provide about 1,500 scholarships or memberships for kids and families that need that support. And of course, if you guys have ever been to our building, we have a wonderful facility, very blessed to have that facility to serve the city of Fayetteville. And I'm here to answer any questions you might have. Thank you. What questions we have. Great job. Appreciate you very much. And everything that you do. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Justin. I move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. All right. Adele. I second that. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Hanna? Yes. Banks? Yes. Leger? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2019. All right. Justin? Move to spin the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adele? I will second that, but I also just want to say I am so happy that we have this great program in Fayetteville, super program. Thank you so much. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes. Yes Yes, I just have a final comment. Sure, that's right, Mayor. Yeah, it's one thing to have a fine facility like that, but in my opinion, what really makes it complete is an equally fine staff and I believe they do a tremendous job out there. I've said it every year that I've been up here. I think it's one of the crown jewels of Fayetteville. And you can go in there any day, like he said, and see hundreds of kids, many of whom would not have a safe place to go if it wasn't for that. So it's not only a really nice place, it's got a great staff, just a wonderful, wonderful thing for our city. I'm happy to support it. Well said. Any other final comments? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number seven. In Oralist, the waived requirements for competitive bidding and approved contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $103,887 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2019. Kip. Whereas providing quality recreational opportunities to senior citizens of our community is of mutual interest to the City of Fayetteville and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas, which has provided these services to seniors in Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas for the past 47 years. And whereas the Area Agency on Aging is very qualified and uniquely able to provide the continuity of services vital to the efficient provision of recreational opportunities to the senior citizens of Fayetteville. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the city of fable arkansas and the area agency of aging of northwest arkansas in the amount of one hundred and three thousand eight hundred eighty seven dollars to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Okay. This, too, is an agreement or a contract that we have had for the past 46 years since 1972 with Hillcrest Towers and then starting in 2003 when Walker Park Senior Adult Center was built, we had the same agreement with them. The Area Agency on Aging has the current lease for the Walker Park Senior Activity Center and it's in effect until 2022. So, if the Area Agency on Aging, if they were not serving our senior citizens population, the city would need to assume that responsibility. Our Walker Park Senior Center building also serves as an emergency care center if needed. So this year we are requesting an additional 5%, 5,000 be added to their budget for the expansion of programs there. And their new director, Chase Gibson, is here, and he's the director of the center. Do you want to come up? Sure. Okay. Thank you, Mayor and City Council for your continued support of the Senior Center. I'm coming up on my first anniversary there, so I've been almost there a year. But as reflected in the amount requested, we are continuing to see growth. And based on some national studies done as recently as 2016, there's a projected growth of about 15 to 17 percent in senior population around the country. Seniors are living longer. And so we're going to see an increased burden and need to serve even more people. Thank you, Chase. Great organization. All right. Any questions from the council on that one? All right. Any public comment? We'll bring it back to the council. All right. i mean if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading kyle second a motion in the second to go to the second reading yeah okay yes yes Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Ginn? Yes. Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $103,887 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2019. Okay. And so, Adelaide. I move we go to the third and final reading. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Simon, would you please call the roll? Kennett. Yes. Latch. Yes. LeTourne. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kent. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of 103 887 dollars to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of fayetteville for 2019. any final comments from council um sorry justin yes okay speaking of providing services to citizens that might otherwise not be able to have them This is another great thing and I appreciate the efforts of the staff and continuing success and support of this is very important. So thank you all. All right. We have the comments. So I would please call the roll. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you. All number eight, in order to sway the requirements for competitive bidding and approve the purchase of child safety seats from Evenflow Company incorporated through 2023 in the estimated amount of $16,000 per year and to approve a budget adjustment. Kitten. Whereas for 18 years, the police department has used $15,000 in state selective traffic enforcement program grant funds to purchase child safety seats through Evenflow Company, Inc.'s WorldSafe Factory Direct Discount Program, And whereas STEP grant funding has been reduced to $1,000 per year, and in order to continue this important community outreach and safety program, the police department is requesting to use budgetary fuel savings to make up the difference. And whereas Evenflo has been a partner and supporter of this nationwide community outreach program for many years, including as a city supplier of child safety seats since 2003, and continues to provide substantial savings through its discount program. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby fines the above circumstances, make competitive bidding not feasible or practical... and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of child safety seats from Evenflo Company, Inc., through the WorldSafe Factory Direct Discount Program through 2023 in the estimated amount of $16,000 per year. Section 2. The City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby approves a budget adjustment recognizing funds in the amount of $15,000 from the police department's fuel savings to continue funding this important community outreach and safety program. Chief. Thanks, Mayor. Like Kit said, we've been participating in this program for several years. I think he said 18. Time goes by fast. That's longer than I thought. In conjunction with the state, unfortunately the state decided last year to cut the funding on this very significantly from $16,000 down to $1,000. We felt it was important enough program to continue to ask for a budget adjustment from you to continue that program and also like Kit said a bid waiver because even Flo does I have a wholesale type program that we buy at a discounted rate. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have with the Chief? Chief, did you get a reason from anybody on the budget cut? No, not really. So that's passed through from the feds. It's part of the selective traffic enforcement grant. So it's all kind of piled in there together. Some years they give us more just for overtime for traffic enforcement. Sometimes they give us more for equipment. Like this year, the item on the consent, $6,600, I think it was the first item of consent. That was an addition of $6,600 they gave us to do distracted driving enforcement. So it just varies from year to year what they give us and what the priority is. Okay. Well, I'm in support of it. I just wondered if there was a direct reason. Okay. Thank you, Chief. Okay. Any other questions from the council? All right. Do we have any public comment on this one? All right. Seeing none, bring it back to the council. Mark. How may we suspend the rolls and go to the second reading? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? I second. Yes. Fetch? Yes. O'Jer? Yes. Smith? Yes. Ray? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. And in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve the purchase of child safety seats from Evenflow Company, Inc. through 2023 in the estimated amount of $16,000 per year and to approve a budget adjustment. Okay. Adele. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. John. And I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes.
 Batch.
 Yes.
 Woodrow.
 Yes.
 Smith.
 Yes.
 Wright.
 Yes.
 Kenyon.
 Yes.
 Petty.
 Yes.
 Yes. And ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve the purchase of child safety seats from Evenflo Company Incorporated through 2023 in the estimated amount of $16,000 per year and to approve a budget adjustment. Any final comments from the council? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. And now, number nine. An order is calling and setting a date for a special election on the questions of issuance by the city of sales and use tax for funding bonds and sales and use tax capital improvement bonds for various purposes, levying a replacement special... local sales and use tax at the rate of 1% for the purpose of retiring such bonds and prescribing other matters pertaining thereto. Now, kids are going to read this, and this is going to take around probably 20 minutes. Now, we have to have five of us in here at all times. So don't everybody run out at the same time. So don't everybody go out at the same time. All right. Whereas Amendment 62 to the Constitution of the State of Arkansas And Title 14, Chapter 164, Subchapter 3 of the Arkansas Code of 1987, annotated, which is the Local Government Bond Act, authorized the issuance of capital improvement bonds by municipalities, which bonds may be secured by the pledge of all the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax prescribed by the Local Government Bond Act. And whereas pursuant to Amendment 62 and the Local Government Bond Act, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas has previously issued, and there are presently outstanding, its Sales and Use Tax Capital Bonds Series 2006A in the aggregate principal amount of $625,000, its Sales and Use Tax Capital Improvement Bonds Series 2007 in the aggregate principal amount of $3,645,000, It's Sales and Use Tax Capital Improvement Bond Series 2009 in the aggregate principal amount of $985,000. It's Sales and Use Tax Capital Improvement Bond Series 2013 in the aggregate principal amount of $11,695,000. and its Sales and Use Tax Capital Improvement Bond Series 2015 in the aggregate principal amount of $3,480,000, collectively the prior bonds. And whereas the prior bonds are secured by and payable from the receipts of a combined 1% special city sales and use tax previously levied under the authority of the Local Government Bond Act, which is the prior tax. Whereas the City Council has determined that additional revenues can be obtained to finance critical capital improvement needs by restructuring the city's existing indebtedness secured by sales and use tax receipts through the refunding of the prior bonds. And whereas if approved by the electors of the city, The city has determined to issue its refunding bonds principal amount not to exceed $12,200,000 for the purpose of refunding the prior bonds, its capital improvement bonds and principal amount not to exceed $73,925,000 for the purpose of financing certain street improvements, It's capital improvement bonds in principal amounts not to exceed $6,865,000 for the purpose of financing certain trail system improvements. It's capital improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $15,840,000 for the purpose of financing certain drainage projects. Is capital improvement bonds in the Princeville Mountain not to exceed $26,405,000 for the purpose of financing certain regional park and other park system improvements? Is capital improvement bonds in the Princeville Mountain not to exceed $3,170,000 for the purpose of financing certain economic development projects? Is capital improvement bonds in Princeville Mountain not to exceed $3,170,000 for the purpose of financing certain city building and grounds renovations and energy efficiency projects? Is capital improvement bonds in Princeville Mountain not to exceed $31,685,000 for the purpose of financing certain cultural arch corridor improvements? Its capital improvement bonds in Princeville Mountain ought to exceed $36,965,000 for the purpose of financing certain police station construction and improvement and the acquisition of police equipment... and its capital improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $15,840,000 for the purpose of financing certain fire station construction and the acquisition of firefighting vehicles and equipment, collectively the bonds. which bonds are to be secured by a pledge of and lean upon all of the receipts of 1% special city sales and use tax, the sales and use tax, which sales and use tax shall replace the existing combined 1% special city sales and use tax, the prior tax, securing the prior bonds, all as authorized by Amendment 62 of the Local Government Bond Act. whereas the purposes of this ordinance is to call a special election on the issuance of the bonds by the city and for related purposes now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that under the authority of Amendment 62 and the Local Government Bond Act, and subject to the approval by the electors of the City of Question 1 and at least one of the other questions set forth in Section 4 below, there are hereby levied a sales and use tax at the rate of 1% on the gross receipts of sale at retail within the city of all items and services which are subject to taxation under the Arkansas Gross Receipts Act of 1941 as amended of the Arkansas Code 1987, annotated Section 26-52-101 at SEC. and an exercise or use to excise excuse me excise or use tax at the rate of 1% on the storage use distribution or other consumption within the city of tangible personal property or taxable services subject to taxation under the Arkansas compensating tax act of 1949 as amended Arkansas code of 1987 annotated section 26-53-101 at SEC on the sales price of the property or in the case of leases and rentals on the lease or rental price collectively believe the sales and use tax the sales and use tax shall be levied and the net collections received after deductions of the administrator charges by the state of arkansas and required rebates shall be utilized only for the payment of debt service on those bonds approved by the voters The sales and use tax shall be levied and collected only on the gross receipts, gross proceeds, or sales prices in the maximum amount allowed from time to time under Arkansas law, subject to rebates and limitation as required for certain single transactions as from time to time required under Arkansas law. The levy and collection of the sales and use tax shall commence on and as of such date as provided by the local government bond act and shall cease upon the retirement in full of those bonds approved by the voters. Any collections of the prior tax received after the issuance of the refunding bonds described in Section 1 or any other excess collections of the prior tax shall be used to provide for payment of debt service on those bonds approved by the voters. Section 2, that under the authority of Amendment 62 and the Local Government Bond Act and subject to approval by the electors of the City of both Question 1 and at least one of the other questions set forth in Section 4 below, There is hereby authorized, one, the issuance of the City's refunding bonds in the aggregate principal not to exceed $12,200,000 for the purpose of redeeming the outstanding prior bonds. Two, the issuance of City's capital improvement bonds in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $73,925,000 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain street improvements described in question two under section four below. 3. The issuance of Capital City's capital improvement bonds in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $6,865,000 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain trail improvements described in Question 3 under Section 4 and below. 4, the issuance of the City's capital improvement bonds and aggregate pension amounts not to exceed $15,840,000 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain drainage improvements described in Question 4 under Subsection 4 below. 5. The issuance of the City's capital improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $26,405,000 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain regional and other park system improvements described in Question 5 under Section 4 below. 6. The issuance of the City's capital improvement bonds in the aggregate fiscal amount not to exceed $3,170,000 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain economic development projects described in Question 6 under Section 4 below. 7. The issuance of the City's capital improvement bonds in aggregate principal amount not to exceed $3,170,000 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain building and grounds renovations and refurbishment described in Question 7 under Section 4 below. Eight, for the issuance of the city's capital improvement bonds in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $31,685,000 for purposes of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain cultural arts corridor improvements described in question eight under section four below. 9, the issuance of the city's capital improvement bonds in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $36,965,000 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain police improvements and equipment described in question. That's police station improvements and equipment described in question 9 under Section 4 below. 10. The issuance of Capital City's capital improvement bonds in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $15,840,000 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the costs of certain fire station improvements and equipment described in Question 10, under Section 4 below. If approved by the electors of the city, the aforementioned refunding bonds and capital improvement bonds, collectively the bonds, may be issued in one or more series from time to time in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the respective principal amounts approved by the city's electors. Any bond so issued shall be secured by a pledge of and lean upon all of the receipts of the sales and use tax as authorized by the local government bond act. Section 3. That there be, and there hereby is called, a special election to be held on Tuesday, April 9, 2019, at which election there shall be submitted to the electors of the city the question of the issuance of the bonds. Section 4. That the question shall be placed on the ballot for the special election in substantially the following forms. Special election on city sales and use tax levy and bond issuance. Upon approval of question one and at least one of the other questions set forth below I and upon the issuance of refunding bonds defined in Question 1, the City's existing levy of a combined 1% sales and use tax, the prior tax, securing the prior bonds defined in Question 1, shall cease as such tax to be replaced by the 1% sales and use tax defined in Question 1. Such sales and use tax shall commence on and as of the date as provided in Arkansas law and shall cease upon the retirement of all the approved bonds. Unless question one and at least one of the other questions set forth below are approved, none of the bonds described below will be issued. The sales and use tax will not be levied, and the prior tax will remain in place until payment in full of the prior bonds. The bonds described below that are to be that are approved may be combined into a single issue or may be issued in a series from time to time and may be issued on a tax exempt or taxable basis. The net collection of the sales and use tax remaining after the state of Arkansas deducted administrative charges will be used solely to retire the bonds described below which are approved by the voters and obligations of the city with respect there too. Question one. There is submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville the question of the issuance of refunding bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $12,200,000.00, that's refunding bonds, pursuant to Title 14, Chapter 164, Subchapter 3 of the Arkansas Code, the Local Government Bond Act, for the purpose of refunding the City's outstanding sales and use tax capital improvement bond, Series 2006A. Sales and use tax capital improvement bond series 2007. Sales and use tax capital improvement bond series 2009. Sales and use tax capital improvement bond series 2013. And sales and use tax capital improvement bond series 2015, collectively the prior bonds. Okay. If the issuance of the refunding bonds is approved, the refunding bonds shall be secured by a pledge of and lien upon all of the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of 1% levied pursuant to the local government bond act. This is a sales and use tax. Vote on the question by playing an X in one of the squares following the question either for or against. For the issuance of refunding bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $12,200,000. Or against the issuance of refunding bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $12,200,000. Question two. There is hereby submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville the question of issuance of capital improvement bonds in Princeville Mountain not to exceed $73,925,000 in street improvement bonds pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act as defined in Question 1. For the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of right-of-way acquisition, design, construction, reconstruction, repair, resurfacing, straightening, and with modification of certain city streets. which may include related sidewalk, traffic signal and control, lighting, curbing, guttering, bicycle lane, landscaping, drainage and safety improvements, and related curbside pedestrian facilities such as bus pickup structures and concrete waiting pads. If the issuance of the street improvement bonds is approved, the street improvement bonds shall be secured by a pledge of and lean upon all the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of 1% levied pursuant to the local government bond act, the sales and use tax. Vote on the question by playing an X in one of the squares following the question either for or against. For the issuance of street improvement bonds and their principal amount not to exceed $73,925,000. against the issuance of street improvement bonds in their principal amount not to exceed $73,925,000. Question 3. There is hereby submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville the question of the issuance of capital improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $6,865,000 of trail improvement bonds. Pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act. As to finding question 1. for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of design, construction, reconstruction, extension, and equipping of certain city trail system improvements, which may include related pedestrian, signal, lighting, landscaping, drainage, and safety improvements, and right-of-way acquisition. If the issuance of the Trail Improvement Bonds is approved, the Trail Improvement Bonds will be secured by a pledge of and leaned upon all of the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of 1% levied pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act, the sales and use tax. Vote on the question by playing an X in one of the squares following the question, either for or against. for the issuance of trail improvement bonds in the Princeville Mountain not to exceed $6,865,000 or against the issuance of trail improvement bonds in the Princeville Mountain not to exceed $6,865,000. Question four. They are submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville the question of the issuance of capital improvement bonds in the Princeville Mountain not to exceed $15,840,000, the drainage improvement bonds, Pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act, as defined in question one, for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of design, construction, reconstruction, repair, retrofit, extension, enlargement, and equipping of certain drainage facilities, which may include land and easement acquisition, and water quality features such as detention and retention basins and stream restoration. If the issuance of the drainage improvement bonds is approved, the drainage improvement bonds shall be secured by pledge of and lien upon all of the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of 1% levied pursuant to the local government bond act, the sales and use tax. Vote on the question by placing an X on one of the squares following the question, either for or against. For the issuance of drainage improvement bonds and their principal amount not to exceed $15,840,000. Or against the issuance of drainage improvement bonds and their principal amount not to exceed $15,840,000. Question five is, There is submitted to the qualified electors of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas. The question of issuance of capital improvement bonds in the French Road Mountain not to exceed 26 million, $405,000. The park improvement bonds pursuant to the local government Bond Act as defined in question one for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of acquisition, design, construction and equipping of certain regional park and other park system improvements. which may include athletic fields and facilities, playgrounds, pools and splash pads, trails, campgrounds, picnic areas and pavilions, land acquisition, open space preservation and other recreational facilities and support facilities such as restrooms and parking. If the issuance of the park improvement bonds is approved, the park improvement bonds shall be secured by a pledge of and lean upon all the receipts of the special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of 1% levied pursuant to the local government bond act, the sales and use tax. Vote on the question by placing an X in one of the squares following the question, either for or against. Thank you. For the issuance of park improvement bonds in the Princeville Mountain not to exceed $26,405,000 or against the issuance of park improvement bonds in the Princeville Mountain not to exceed $26,405,000. Question six. They are submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas. The question of the issuance of capital improvement bonds in the Apprenticeville Mountain not to exceed $3,170,000, the economic development project bonds pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act is finding question 1 for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the costs of the acquisition, design, construction and equipping of certain economic development which may include land acquisition, site development, and infrastructure useful in the development, retention, or expansion of manufacturing, production, and industrial facilities, research, technology, and development facilities, distribution centers, call centers, warehouse facilities, job training facilities, or regional or national corporate headquarters facilities. If the issuance of the Economic Development Project is approved, the Economic Development Project bonds shall be secured by pledge of and lien upon the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of 1% levied pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act of sales and use tax. I would only question by placing an X in one of the squares following the question, either for or against. For the issuance of Economic Development Project bonds in the amount not to exceed $3,170,000. Or against the issuance of Economic Development Project bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $3,170,000. Question 7. There is hereby, no, there is submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, the question of the issuance of capital improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $3,170,000, the City facilities improvement bonds, pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act as defined in question one. For the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of renovating and refurbishing certain city buildings and grounds, which may include building envelope and roof improvements, window replacement, insulation, lighting, HVAC system upgrades, and certain renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. If the issuance of the City Facilities Improvement Bonds is approved, the City Facilities Improvement Bonds shall be secured by a pledge of and lean upon all of the receipts of the special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of 1% levy pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act, the sales and use tax. Vote on the question by placing an X in one of the squares following the question, either for or against. Or the issuance of the city facilities improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $3,170,000. Or against the issuance of city facilities improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $3,170,000. Question 8. Therein submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, the question of issuance of capital improvement bonds in principal amount not to exceed $31,685,000, the arch quarter improvement bonds pursuant to the local government bond act as defined in question one for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of acquisition, design, construction, and equipping of certain cultural arts center improvements. within or near an area boarded by Dixon Street on the north, School Avenue on the east, Prairie Street on the south, and Gregg Avenue on the west, and which may include Street, sidewalk, boardwalk, trail, pedestrian, signal and control, bicycle facilities, curbing, guttering, drainage, lighting and landscaping improvements, plaza, civic and performance space, art installation, overlooks, screen restoration, pavilions, structure and other buildings, new and or replacement parking facilities, and land and easement acquisition. If the issuance of the arts corridor improvement bonds is approved and the arts corridor improvement bonds shall be secured by a pledge of and lean upon all the receipts of the special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of 1% levied pursuant to the local government bond act for sales and use tax, vote on the question by placing an X in one of the squares following the question either for or against. for the issuance of the ARCH quarter improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $31,685,000 or against the issuance of ARCH quarter improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $31,685,000. Question 9. There submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville the question of the issuance of capital improvement bonds in Princeville Mountain not to exceed $36,965,000 of police facilities improvement bonds. Pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act as defined in Question 1, for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cost of certain police station design, construction, and improvements, which may include land acquisition and the acquisition of police equipment. If the issuance of the police facility's improvement bonds is approved, the police facility improvement bonds shall be secured by a pledge of and lean upon all of the receipts of a special citywide sales and use tax at a rate of 1% levied pursuant to the local government bond act, the sales and use tax. Order of the question by place in X and one of the squares following the question, either for or against. For the issuance of the police facilities improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $36,965,000. Or, against the issuance of the police facilities improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $36,965,000. And question 10. They are submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, the question of issuance of capital improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $15,840,000, the firefighting facilities improvement bonds, pursuant to the Local Government Bond Act as defined in question one, for the purpose of financing all. or a portion of the cost of certain fire station design and construction, which may include land acquisition and the acquisition of firefighting vehicles and equipment. If the issuance of the firefighting facilities improvement bonds is approved, the firefighting facilities improvement bonds shall be secured by a pledge of and lean upon all of the receipts of the special citywide sales and use tax at the rate of 1% levied pursuant to the local government bond act, the sales and use tax. Vote on the question by placing an X in one of the squares following the question, either for or against. For the issuance of firefighting facilities improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $15,840,000. Or against the issuance of firefighting facilities improvement bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $15,840,000. Section 5, that the election shall be held and conducted and the vote canvassed and the results declared under the law and in the matter now provided for Arkansas municipal elections, unless otherwise provided in the Local Government Bond Act, and only qualified voters of the city shall have the right to vote at the election. The city clerk is hereby directed to give notice of the special election by one advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. The publication will be not less than 10 days prior to the date of the election. Section 6, that a copy of this ordinance shall be given to the Washington County Board of Election Commissioners at least 60 days prior to the date of the special election. so that the necessary election officials and supplies may be provided. A certified copy of this ordinance shall be provided to the Director of the Department of Finance and Administration and to the Treasurer of the State of Arkansas as soon as practical. Section 7. That the results of the special election shall be proclaimed by the Mayor and his proclamation shall be published one time in a newspaper of general circulation within the City. the proclamation shall advise that the results as proclaimed shall be conclusive unless attacked in the circuit court of Washington County within 30 days after the date of publication of the proclamation. Section 8, that the mayor and city clerk for and on behalf of the city be and they hereby are authorized and directed to do any and all things necessary to call and hold the special election as herein provided, and if the issuance of the refunding bonds and any of the other capital improvement bonds described herein are approved by the electors, to cause the sale and use tax to be collected in accordance with the Local Government Bond Act and perform all acts of whatever nature necessary to carry out the authority conferred by this ordinance. Section 9. That City Council considers this ordinance to be its declaration of official intent to issue bonds and to make reimbursement to the City with a portion of the proceeds thereof for all original expenditures incurred by the City in acquiring, constructing, or equipping any of the projects described herein between the date that is 60 days prior to the date of this ordinance and the date a series of bonds is issued, plus a de minimis amount and preliminary expenditures as such terms are defined in Section 1.150-2 of the Federal Income Tax Regulations. Section 10 that Kutoc Rock LLP is hereby engaged as bond council and Stevens Incorporated is hereby engaged as underwriter with respect to the issuance of the bonds The fees and expenses of bond council and the underwriter shall be a cost of issuance of the bonds to be paid with proceeds section 11 that the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to be separable and And if any provision shall for any reason be held illegal or invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance. And Section 12, that all ordinances and parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict. And that is it. Thank you. Well done. I believe, Paul, you take it from here. Well, I'm glad Kit had to read that, not me. I'm sure everything is perfectly clear after that, but let me make a few comments, if I may. First, I want to say it's my pleasure to present this and bring it forward to the Council. Very seldom do we have the opportunity of asking the citizens to authorize the city to issue bonds in excess of $200 million for projects with no increase in taxes. This would continue the 1% tax. So in other words, this would generate over $200 million for needed projects at no increase in taxes to the citizens. We all know we're a growing city and we have needs. This would allow us to meet those needs now and not accumulate money over time to try to address that. Those infrastructure needs that we have, they're too large to accumulate with the operating resources that we have. Again, I want to key to the question here in the ordinance. The ordinance is requesting that the voters authorize up to those amounts for the stated projects. the council would then decide if and when to issue those bonds. So it's a question of authorization. The actual issuance of those bonds would come later, contingent on the authorization by the city council. It is anticipated that we would incrementally issue these bonds. We would incrementally issue them over time when we had identified the projects, projects were ready to go, and therefore we would complete them in the three-year period that's the federal requirement. I think that this request actually demonstrates the responsible money management that we here at the city have demonstrated in the past. It shows the appropriate use of debt financing to get infrastructure projects that we need and have them done now. The administration waited until we're sure that those bonds would be paid off before we came forward with another request. One of the questions that I have heard, or we have heard collectively, is if we're going to pay the bonds off next year, why do we need $12 million to refinance the sales tax issue? Right at this point in time, the bonds outstanding are about $20,400,000. Based on our current collections, they would pay off approximately next November. When we set this and estimated these, I asked Dennis Hunt from Stevens, who is our underwriter, to set that and give me estimates based on an issuing time of May. At that point in time, we would still roughly have over $11 million to pay off. This would ask for a little extra just in case we have to adjust for changing interest rates, or we may do an additional reserve to get the interest rates down a little bit. So that is why we're asking for that amount. You might ask for why now. Why are we asking this for now? Why refinance? Okay. You have to remember that these state collections are done by the state, by DF&A, and they send out a letter once they have all of the money collected to pay off the bonds. They send out letters to all of our state. Sales tax collectors, all of our retail people, I don't know if any of you work in the retail business, but it means all the restaurants, all the retail stores. They would then take that based on that letter, reprogram all of their registers, go through all that, ask them to collect less until we passed another bond issue. to invoke the penny again, then they'd send out a letter and say, by the way, reprogram everything back. We would have our citizens horribly confused because they wouldn't know what the sales tax rate, believe me. We would get overwhelming phone calls on, are we being charged the rest tax rate? Is this right or is this wrong? That would go on a long time. So this is the kind of confusion that it would create if we waited to that point in time. Right. The other thing that I do want to bring to your attention, at this point in time, like I said, by the time we write finance, we're looking at maximum $12 million probably in refinance. There are opportunity costs, too. If we look at issuing incrementally in the first issue, I would say we'll issue about $125 million to – to 145 million, depending on if all of them are passed, depending on where we're at. There are opportunity costs. If we look at the inflationary increase, it's roughly running 2% right about now. That means you have an opportunity cost that would cost you about $1.2 million if you waited a year to issue the bonds. So I think we've shown and demonstrated that this is a prudent time to do it. I think that... We have indicated that this is good for the citizens. We've had input. We've worked on this a long time, and now we're coming to the council. What we'd like to generate from streets, $36 million, $3 million for trails, drainage, $15 million, parks, $16 million, renovations, $3 million. Excuse me, that's wrong for the parks. 70 million for roads, 6.5 for trails, drainage improvements of 15 million, parks 25 million, economic development projects 3 million, city facilities for improvements that would also address energy efficiency, construction hours corridor 30 million, need for the police facilities 35 million, firefighting 15 million. So all in all, we would generate over $202 million for these projects going forward. So I will be happy to answer any questions. I will also add at this point in time that when we'd issue the bonds, they would be issued for a 16-year period to meet coverage. If sales taxes are at current levels, don't decline, we'd actually pay those off in 12 years. we would gain 2%, which is what my estimate is, and I mean 2% per year each and every year. We could pay them off as early as 10 years. I want to bring to your attention that when we issued the 2006 bonds, we were going to pay those off by 2024, and we have paid them off roughly five years early. So I think this is a good program. I think it demonstrates fiscal responsibility It addresses a lot of infrastructure needs that we have in the city. I'll be happy to answer any questions By the way, Dennis on us here is the underwriter for Stevens In case you have any questions for him and Gordon Wilburn is our bond counsel who wrote this Yeah, any complains about that onus need to go to Gordon and Like I said, I'll be happy to entertain any questions. What questions do we have in the council? All right, what questions do we have from the council about the ballot? Is there any statements or questions from the City Council about the language of the ballot is read by the city? John Thank You mr. Mayor. I like the idea of having the qualified electorate vote on specific categories of expenditures and that involves them in the spending and takes some pressure off of us. And it gives us an indication of what the electorate wants with their dollars. And that's what we should be about. Thank you. All right. Now we're going to open it up for some public comments. Now, here's the rules so everybody knows them. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have a five-minute limit. unless the council decides to give you more time, and then it will take a motion and a second by a council member, and then you'll have to get a majority vote to get more time, okay? Your comments needs to be directed to me. You don't engage a council member or anybody in the audience. So I can handle quite a bit of abuse, I should say. Maybe not abuse, but I can handle... But keep your comments directed to me, all right? And don't engage anybody in the audience. I don't want to hear a bunch of hooping and hollering and hand clapping and, you know, carrying on. I mean, everybody stay calm. I would like your name and address. I don't believe I've left anything else. So who would like to be first? Now we're discussing, what we're discussing right now is the ballot language. If everybody's good, if there's any topics in there you want to discuss or bring, this is your time to bring it forward to the council. Then if the council wants to take that and make some changes then that will be up to them. So who would like to be first? Everybody thrilled? Y'all haven't sat here all this time not to say anything, have you? Sure. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, I'm Steve Clark. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane, Fayetteville. I stand here before you as the president of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce and as your economic development advisor. Also, in the spirit of transparency, I should tell you I'm a member of the Walton Arts Center Board. Mr. Mayor, you and your team and I and the chamber staff have been discussing this issue for several months, talking about the way we could address the needs of the city, So we continue to have the vitality and the ability to grow and grow quality wise and grow with the programs and the facilities that we think make our city special. We talked about the fact that in this region, other cities have done the same. and that we want to keep abreast or ahead of our competitors. And we also want to meet the expectations of our business community, the expectations of our citizens, and the expectations that we set on ourselves for being the finest place in the world in which to live. So the Chamber absolutely supports this bond proposal. The Chamber absolutely believes that the categories that are identified in this bond proposal are each very important, and the language included is very important. So we know there needs to be expenditures for streets and drainage and signage and safety and all those things. And we applaud you, Mr. Mayor, for having the leadership to make that the largest amount of money to be appropriated for addressing issues of the city. We certainly believe that safety is important both in fire and police, and we applaud you again and your staff, Mr. Mayor. But we're talking about building the facilities that are necessary to keep our citizens safe. We believe that our parks are crucial. to how we succeeded in our city. We know they drive tax dollars. We know they drive quality of life, and we know they describe sense of place. So we applaud you again, and thank you for that. Obviously, on economic development, that's our wheelhouse, and we believe that with the new constitutional amendment adopted a year ago or two years ago now by the citizens of Arkansas, the city of Fayetteville will be able to have the ability to recruit, whether it's regional or national headquarters, where it will be health care or other kinds of entities, or the kinds of business and attract the kind of talent skills that we need to continue to be a 21st century city. When it comes to culture, the chamber, in conversation with you and Devin and others of your staff and your chief of staff, talked about the idea of an arts corridor. We see that as a very important addition to who and what we are as a city. But we must tell you that we believe that language in particular on that item eight is very critical. And we applaud you, Mr. Mayor, in making sure that what was included was the language for parking facilities or replacement of parking facilities. It would be very difficult for us to address this as a city if we didn't recognize as a city that parking is critical. It would also be very difficult for us to fail to recognize as a city that arts is becoming a driving force of economics in this city. And we'll continue to do so because the new development of the new art school for the continuation of other facilities that are being developed in the arts and cultural district that the university is developing. And so we see that as a driver of sales tax dollars, lots of sales tax dollars. So we compliment you, Mr. Mayor, and we ask you, members of the council, to join in in supporting this just as it was read to us and just as it has been written. And include all those specifics that are in there because those specifics round out this program to make this city what we want it to be. We also compliment you and thank you for giving the citizens of Fayetteville the opportunity to invest in themselves and giving people who are guests in our city the opportunity to invest in us as well. You're trusting the people. And that's always a wise judgment and always a wise action. So, Mr. Mayor, we will tell you that the Chamber of Commerce will join you, and we hope for this city council, if the recommendation is to go forward with this bond issue and to adopt it as it is proposed and written, we believe you've hit all the issues that are critical for our success and present to us in 2019 a way to go forward to achieve the things that are important to our community. Thank you. Thanks, Chief. Thanks, Steve. Yes. My name is Scott Harrison, and I'm appearing here on behalf of Fayetteville Youth Baseball. And just wanted to state that we would really, really love if you all would continue the development of Kessler Park for us, where we could get all of our facilities put in that one place. I think we could... bring some very good tournaments and such to the city, which would in turn bring back some sales tax revenue and such as that. And I would like to reiterate what Mr. Clark said. All the programs are very good. And just if you would please consider finishing out Kessler for the Fayetteville Youth Baseball Organization. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I'm Malcolm Hayward. I confess I don't live in the city, but I am... associated with the symphony. And as you all are aware, a number of people drug the symphony back from the dead eight or nine years ago. And I'm happy to report that I haven't seen the number today after the stock market debacle, but a little while ago we had an endowment of a million dollars that we raised. So the symphony is on very solid footing. But it is absolutely... dependent on people being able to come to it and that is absolutely dependent on downtown parking. I'm sure as you all know parking is something of a problem on Saturday nights to the point where we've thought about trying to reschedule our events away from that for people who were put off by the difficulties of parking Saturday night, but any but I In the short run, any going backwards on the ease of parking in the vicinity of the Walton Arts Center would be extremely detrimental to us. And I suspect I can speak for Theater Squared and I suspect I can speak for the Walton Arts Center on that issue. So parking is very, very important to us. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor Jordan. I'm Diana Brown. I live at 1444 East Cardinal Drive. I'm a fairly new resident of Fayetteville, Arkansas. I am a New Yorker, and I moved here from Los Angeles. I have watched cities go through this type of cultural corridor transitions, which are great in part, but everything about Mayan cultural corridor is a destination. And for a destination, you have to have parking. If you know anything about Manhattan, it's $33 for a half an hour parking on Broadway. But you have mass transit systems that take you right to the door of the theater. In L.A., they took away lanes for trolley cars on Santa Monica Boulevard to make lanes for cars to be wider. All those businesses up and down Little Santa Monica are suffering because no one stops because there's no parking. I would rather stay home than go across town to go see a friend, go have dinner, go shop, go see a movie, go screen a movie or anything else because I don't have a parking spot. I really feel, I work at the Walton Arts Center, to be transparent. Our average age of our patrons is your senior citizens that come to our center. And the fact that they come in at 6 o'clock and say, oh my God, I'm late for a 7 o'clock show. That's amazing to me. Because half hour is at 6.30. And if you're saying you're late at 6 o'clock, and especially like this weekend, we still have bad weather. If they park on Gregg Avenue, they have to walk all the way to the Walton Arts Center. Proximity is within your eye range. It's not two blocks, three blocks, or a shuttle away. And the difference I see with Crystal Bridges, they have a shuttle service, which is great. But they are isolated, and that's all that's going around. I know I will not come out. to go anywhere to the Fayetteville Square during the daytime because I got to pay to park. It's not a lot. It's not a lot. I can pay to park. But finding a parking spot close to the restaurant I'm going to in the square at lunchtime is a challenge. Finding a parking spot on the weekend on Dixon Street is a challenge. So that's all I have to say. Thank you. Who else wants to address this? Mayor Jordan, good evening. Council, Sarah Sparks-Stebold. I reside at 1662 East Amber Drive here in Fayetteville. I've lived in Fayetteville for 20 plus years now and consult a number of businesses in the downtown Dixon Street area and also own a couple of businesses. I will ditto Steve Clark's comments. Congratulations to you and your team. on getting this through and the creativity behind it. I think the allocations are all very appropriate. What I would ask is that we, and with all due respect to the legal team, that we reevaluate the language in the cultural arts corridor section to tighten that language up to include that we must replace parking, not we may. replace parking and in addition to the requirement of replacing parking that we also dictate the timing of the construction of Replacement parking to come before any construction would happen on the West Avenue lot Thank you Hello, good evening. My name is Stephanie Thomas. I live at 3566 Buckingham Drive. I moved here from the East Coast over 20 years ago after being relocated here for my husband's job. I'm an Army brat and I've lived all over the country. In every single community that I've lived in, there's been one thing in common, a community pool. And that is until I moved to Fayetteville. I think you all, all of you have heard about the numerous benefits of having a community swimming pool and how people of all ages and abilities can benefit from a pool. The right pool with the right programming can offer a vast array of programs to include learn to swim for children and adults, numerous types of water fitness classes for adults, seniors, and people suffering from disabilities, lifeguard training for teens, pool space for kayakers to practice skills, not to mention swim teams, lap swimming, play swimming for children and families. So I know that this is an issue that most people can agree on, that having a community swimming pool would benefit the community. All of these activities can generate funding that can contribute to the cost of running a pool. In fact, the right pool can offer opportunities to host events that will bring people into the area and generate revenue for local businesses. I understand that a pool has not been in the list of recommendations by the Parks Department. And from the people that I've talked to, I think the narrative has been that it's not sustainable. I want to ask you all to ask yourselves where this information is coming from, that Fayetteville is somehow uniquely unqualified to build and maintain a community pool when hundreds and hundreds of other communities across the country have been doing this for many, many years. One of the things that USA Swimming, a national organization that I'm sure many of you have heard of, one of their primary functions is to help communities build pools. that are sustainable through building the right kind of pool and supporting it through the right kinds of programs. So programming is really important in terms of maintaining a sustainable pool. And this is exactly what this organization, USA Swimming, is able to do and has done for many communities throughout the country. I think a city with the size and the support that we have here could easily maintain a community pool. In closing, I want to say that a pool can be utilized more than any other amenity that we have. It's something that can be used 365 days a year, all age range, all genders. Well, there's one, well, I guess all genders. And there are no limitations in terms of the weather. I think I made my point. So I want you to, again, of course, please consider giving Fayetteville what we greatly deserve, community swimming pool. Thanks. Thank you. Okay. Who would like to address this next? Hi. My name's Terry Borman. I live at 1221 East Rogers Drive in Fayetteville. I'd like to also say a few words about an Aquatic Center and the role it can play in the future of our city. Swimming and aquatics in general is one of the broadest reaching nets capable of reaching people, bringing people together from all age groups and personalized trees. Toddlers to optogenarians, people recovering from injuries and impact sports in a non-impact environment, aerobic as well as anaerobic conditioning for maximum fitness, acquisition of the safety net that knowing how to swim provides. The list just keeps going on. On a city level, I'll say that in a previous city that I lived in, Salt Lake City, Utah, they built an indoor pool natatorium in kind of a rough part of town. And it's completely revitalized that part of the city in such a way that when I visited about a year ago, that part of the city was almost unrecognizable. A pool brings really good things to the area that it is located in and the city that brings it. On a personal level, my daughter was invited to try out for the Fayetteville High School swim team her senior year after the coach heard how well she'd done at the state Special Olympics games. She has sound syndrome and made the team, which was great, but the best part was seeing how her life changed when she became part of the team. And that team is underscored. In her previous years in school, everyone had always been kind to her, but she wasn't invited to birthday parties or other social events. But when she was a member of the swim team sharing workouts and all the work involved, she was invited to all the team events, pool parties, pizza nights, swimming birthday parties, etc., etc. It was so amazing to see how she was accepted, and I attribute this to the camaraderie and sense of fellowship she developed as a member of the swim team. For the state games in Searcy, it was two years ago, roughly 15 members, 15 of the team members, as well as the team coach, drove the three-and-a-half-hour drive each way to cheer her on. If you want to see a parent cry, try exposing one to the first look into the bleachers and seeing 15 students with big banners cheering your daughter on them. She has continued swimming and at last summer's International Down Syndrome Swim Meet in Canada, her 4x100 freestyle relay team came third in the world. There's also talk at the NIH about the health benefits of swimming, specifically the relationship between swimming and slowing down the progression of various neurological dementias. This research is very early on, but the general consensus is that pumping lots of oxygen into the brain in a non-impact environment is a good thing and something we could all benefit from. In conclusion, I'd like to say that a year around the aquatic center is a really, really healthy biomarker. If your town has one, it's likely a forward-looking, open-hearted, inclusive environment to live and grow. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mayor, good to see you. Good to see you. Alan Drano from the 1001 East Oaks Manor Drive in Fayetteville. But I work in Bentonville, and I'm responsible for the Walmart Museum, which is right downtown in Bentonville. And I've seen the growth firsthand of downtown areas throughout northwest Arkansas. Okay. In fact, I have a car that has a license plate that says go NWA. That's how much in love with this region I am. To make an investment in the arts is to make an investment in the entire community, into the restaurants in the area, into the shops in the area. And to have a robust parking position downtown in the arts corridor also benefits the square in Fayetteville. So it's really a win-win situation for everyone. Thank you. So, if we don't make this investment in the arts, and we're not making an investment in our own community, isn't that what we're here to do? I am. That's why I live in Fayetteville. I love it here. I'm going to stay. And you're one of the reasons that I do stay here. So, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'll bring it. Hello Mr. Mayor, my name is Adam Parisi. I live at 3658 Chatsworth Road in Fayetteville. I'm here to speak tonight on behalf of an indoor aquatics facility. I want to read the opening paragraph on the Parks and Recreation website. At Fayetteville Parks and Recreation, we are in the people business. It is our intent that individuals of all abilities, ages, interests, and needs feel welcome in our programs and our facilities. I have four sons. I've been blessed. My youngest is now 17 years old. All four of my boys participated in sports here in the city of Fayetteville. They played baseball, they played soccer, and they swam. I coached soccer for 20 years as a volunteer. I also coached baseball for five years. So I'm very familiar with those programs and the benefits of those sports. But what I find most interesting in looking at my now adult young sons, or young adult sons, I should say, is of all the sports that they participated in, the one that they are still doing in their now adult lives is swimming. Swimming truly is a lifetime sport and one that is worth investing in. I've actually become a swimmer as an adult myself. I didn't do it growing up. I learned how to swim enough so I wouldn't drown when I got in the water. But I have now learned as someone who is very focused on maintaining good health that swimming is one of the best activities that you can do. It's low impact on your joints. You use lots of muscles. It's aerobic. You can check off a lot of things when you talk about swimming. I've been to several events where I have seen 80-year-olds and even 90-year-olds swimming. I have yet to see an 80-year-old person in a baseball game. Just haven't seen it happen. An indoor pool will provide year-round activity, year-round. I challenge you to go up to the Jones Center one of these Saturdays in the coming weeks in the middle of winter and see the crowd that is there using the aquatics facilities there. I then in turn challenge you to go down to Kessler Park that same day and see how many people are using the fields there. It's a beautiful park. I regret not being able to coach my kids down at Kessler Park. But it's not getting used year-round in terms of an investment. It's just not going to get used year-round. A pool addressed the needs of the many. Some of the Parks and Rec proposed funding that's in the budget right now is to build out some additional facilities that, while great facilities, are for a small portion of the general population. You talk about new baseball fields. I was at a recent Parks and Rec meeting, and it was asked who's going to use these fields. And the demographic is 12-year-old boys and under. And having four boys, I greatly appreciate that. But at the end of the day, it's a pretty small demographic when you're talking about the total population of Fayetteville. So I want to go back and reread that last sentence that's on the Parks and Rec page. And it says, it is our intent that individuals of all abilities, ages, interests, and needs feel welcome in our programs and our facilities. I just ask you to think about that as you consider funding for an indoor aquatics facility. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Thank you. Hello, sorry about that. My name is Anita Parisi. I live at 3658 East Chatsworth. I've been a citizen of Fayetteville for almost 25 years. I am also a partner with the City of Fayetteville as I provide for the last two summers a developmental swim program at the Wilson Park Pool. It was an invitation from the Parks Department to try to get utilization of the Wilson Park Pool, and I'm proud to say that it has been a very successful program. Successful to the point that many of the patrons have asked, why can't we do this year-round? Because guess what? There is no place in the city of Fayetteville to do it year round. The kind of programming that these individuals like. Matt Mihailovich, you know, his daughters do it. As well as Peter Nearingarden. These are people you know that work for the city of Fayetteville. Their children are involved. Anyway, this summer a survey was conducted by the city trying to figure out what to put into this bond proposal. Well, on August 6th, the Parks Department and the Parks Planning Director announced that the number one survey response for homeowners for projects was an aquatics facility. I've gone through all of the minutes for every other discussion at any other Parks Advisory Board meeting or when it was presented here on October 9th, and it was not discussed that that was the number one response. Park Suggestion from the citizens this summer now it did say outdoor But the the rest of the survey went on to say it was couched as an indoor competition pool Which even I put no no no and I wrote in the comments It's so much more than that go to the Bentonville Aquatic Center, which is huge so huge in fact that that they're talking about covering their outdoor Melvin Ford pool because they can't accommodate everybody. Their population is, what, 38,000 now? And ours is 80,500. And we can't support it. And they're talking about supporting two. So, one, I don't know if you were aware that there is that demand. Right? Two, sustainability. I've understood, as Stephanie Thomas said, that the concern is sustainability. Well, I have a couple comments on that. One, sustainable. You're right. It might. I think that it can be sustainable with total aquatics programming. It has to be designed because design precedes programming. You have to have the right people to make it successful, but it can be done. But I ask you this, tell me at Gully Park what revenue they bring in. And yet we spend money there. It's not 100% sustainable. Who pays for the bands in the parks on Thursday nights? No revenue. There's no offsetting revenue. Yet every time I hear a discussion of a pool, I hear about sustainability. I'm just asking for parity. Somebody is mowing the lawn, somebody is using the lights, playing the lights at Mount Kessler, etc., etc., but there's no discussion that there has to be offsetting revenue for each of those expenses. Yet, for some reason, when it's an indoor aquatic facility, that's the number one thing that I keep hearing as well. And I've given all this information to the Parks Department. This was something that I drew up for them. These are the eight cities in Arkansas in the last five years that have built indoor aquatics facilities. I don't think they're smarter than we are. And they figured it out. Okay. I'm talking Pocahontas, Paraguay, Batesville, Clarksville, Searcy, Benton, Bryant. And this summer, what's not on here, Pine Bluff. Pine Bluff. Pine Bluff. Median household income, $30,000. Fayetteville, $40,000. Property, $75,200 for a single-family home. Fayetteville, $186,200. And we can't seem to think that we can maintain and support for the demand of an aquatics facility? How can Pine Bluff do that? And we can't. So I talk about that sustainability as well. I heard that there's failing pools all over. Well, I talked to United States Swimming, and again, the contact I've given to the city of Fayetteville several times, and I asked them, I need to know the number of cities that have failed in the last two years, their aquatics facility. And he said zero, the ones that have employed their methodology for total aquatics programming. And they offer- Todd. Okay. Thank you. Can I ask you a question? Yes, sir. And I live not too far from you. I apologize for my trash can and part of my Bradford prayer tree ended up in your yard after getting ripped out of the ground during that mini tornado we had in our neighborhood. We hope we return your recycling bin. You can't do anything with the trash bin because it broke into about 50 pieces, which I need to call the trash department tomorrow about that, by the way. i agree with you by the way that we need an indoor facility but i've always been one to look at both the cultural and health benefits but also the benefits of the and i've been i've preached about the baseball tournaments and the uh blacktop three on three tournaments that we can have if we have an enhanced baseball and soccer and basketball facility in the regional park so and you may not be able to answer this but I would like somebody to educate me a little bit on the value of bringing in not just our local people to use an indoor facility, but am I wrong in thinking that there's also a market for swimming meets and swimming tournament type activities and rental situations where revenue could be made? Because I agree with you, I hear that it costs too much to run a facility like that, but that can be offset with many different things. Can you speak to that? Yes. A swim meet ranging from at the Jones Center, for example, or at the Hyper or wherever, which Hyper we can't really discuss because we're not allowed. No one is allowed in there. But from a one-session meet to a five-session meet, which is typical, you're looking at about $15,000 for the 150 to 400 athletes that usually attend. And that's either an age group meet... a summer league meet or a high school meet, a club meet, a high school meet, or a summer league meet. And so if you annualize that, it's 15,000 to 50,000 when you talk two nights, which last weekend there was a meet at the Jones Center and it was two nights. And we look at about $50,000 that they brought into the city of Springdale for spending the night, two hotel nights, as well as the meals for those two and a half days. And so generally there's about 12 meets a year that one facility would have. There's more up in this area. There's about 24 a year up in this area between us and Bentonville, but we could take some from Bentonville. But at 11, you know, that's annualized, I would estimate about $300,000. Okay. And it was actually spoken at the September 10th meeting by Scott Harrison, who spoke earlier about baseball, that their suggested revenue was $70,000. Okay. Well, I would just say that for years we've heard up here from places like the Walton Arts Center and Theater Square, they've used the same sort of mathematical equation, either per, they just talk about per seat and the dollar amount that that ticket buyer also adds to things like food and hotel. It's a very similar conversation that you're having And it makes sense to me to look at that sort of support level. Whether we do something like that at the regional park, if there's enough land there to pull it out and do it, whether it's now or later, I think the justification is there for it. So I appreciate your comments. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Okay. My name is Robert Busick. I live at 103 Skyline Drive. I'd like to talk about the cultural arts piece as well. And second, what Ms. Sparks-Deebolt had on the verbiage. I'm 32 years old. I work in the entertainment district. And like most down here, I enjoy parking close. I assume Mr. Mayor, you parked close to this building tonight and probably did not use the Spring Street lot or something like that that would also be available parking. So proximity is very important to me as a resident. I also just want to speak that, you know, it's not just the senior citizens that want to park close. I deal with a bunch of my friends that I went to school here with them in the early 2000s, and now they're in Bentonville and Rogers. They won't come down on a Friday or Saturday night because there's no parking. So it's not just the later events and the older generation and whatnot. So, thank you. That's interesting. Thank you. My name is Corinne Hadrano. We live in Fadewood 1001 East Oaks Manor Drive. And I'm here to briefly speak about accessibility. My family moved here from San Francisco 12 years ago. And we had a lot of cultural opportunities that we never went to. And the moment we moved to small town Arkansas and people in San Francisco were making fun of me, I said, well, I've been taking my kids to so many shows, to so many events, cultural events, to all these events at the library. All of a sudden, our family life, quality of life, blossomed because of accessibility. It was so easy for me to put my kids into the car and take them to places, events, saw shows at the Walton Arts Center at nighttime, even though it was a school night, because we knew I could get them back in the car at home. I didn't have to take a shuttle and all these things that would I had to do in San Francisco. So this great city has a lot to offer with arts and accessibility is a huge benefit and I'm all for Maintaining this so fast forward. My daughter is now a senior applying to colleges dreaming about going to the big cities thinking about all the opportunities where she could be studying and My husband and I we know that She is not going to have the same opportunities she's had here because of accessibility. So I want her to want to stay here, continue experiencing, having all these, you know, experiences through the arts corridor if it's accessible. If it's hard to get there, they lose interest. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening. My name is Ann Stevens and I live at 469 North Rockcliff here in Fayetteville. And I know we've talked a lot about the indoor aquatics facility this evening. But I wanted to share a couple of things with you and I'll make it brief. I was going to talk first of all about I'm a mental health provider. I'm a psychologist and I own two businesses here in Fayetteville in addition to residing here. And excuse me, and I was gonna go on and on a little bit about the mental health benefits and the different populations that this can serve for such a community as ours. Particularly since I've lived here, we have heralded ourselves as being progressive and health conscious and family oriented. And that's exactly what this type of facility provides. But Terry did such a great job and had such a great story to tell about his own daughter. I want to speak a little bit more about the high school. I'm also the booster club president of Fayetteville High for their swimming team. And my daughter last year was a junior, and they were on their state championship team, which is pretty incredible because we had Bentonville and Little Rock and all of these other larger programs to swim against. And, of course, we won. What you might not know is that the swim team members don't practice in a facility that is supported by the community. We actually put in our money into a private organization, happens to be Fayetteville Athletic Club. They have six lanes that are very much more narrow than what a typical swimming pool would have. And these kids cannot grow as a swim team because of the limited number of pool space. So the school's having to pay extra money. The Parents Booster Club has to raise extra money for this, for our kids to participate and to be on par with these other communities where students are able to have community pools in order to practice, that they actually partner with the high school and the community pool, like the pool that I grew up in in Columbia, Missouri, and where I learned to swim. So this is a need that just stretches beyond a lot of the other things that we talked about tonight. Everything very much important. But even our high school swimmers don't have a facility to back up in order for them to do well and grow. And one other point I was going to make is we have more National Merit Scholars on the swim team than about any other swim team over and over again at the high school level. So we are the community leaders of the future, these kids, and I want to do everything we can to support them. So thank you. Thank you. I thought I'd wait until all my swimming friends were gotten their day. Joe Fennell, 1655 Woolsey. Lived in Fayetteville since 1978. Operated a business on Dixon Street since 1980. Been well aware that we've had parking problems for a long time. I'd say the first few years that I was on Dixon Street, we didn't have any parking problems, so we didn't have any customers. I was the new guy in town and I wasn't smart enough to not build my business on Dixon Street, so I nearly starved to death. But thanks to the Walton Arts Center being built on Dixon Street, that's what changed the dynamics of that part of our city. And because that was done by the leaders of our city and our local government, Dixon Street and the entertainment district is a place that everybody wants to be. That is the driving force behind the development of the cultural arts facility down there, the corridor. Without the Walton Arts Center being down there for the last 25 years, no one would have ever thought about building a cultural arts corridor down there because there would be no use for one because there would be no arts. Just be a bunch of bars, a few restaurants, a lot of college kids. Right, but the Walton Arts Center changed everything for all of us and all for the good and now we got theater squared getting Ready to be their neighbor and these people drive to performances Like I said, I've been down there since 1980. They don't walk if they live at Wilson Park They might walk but they're not walking from the east part of town They're not walking if they live out by Johnson but they are coming to the arts and they are going to come to the theater square and So we got to have parking. And, Mayor, I commend you. You and I have always agreed that we've had a parking problem. Okay? And thank you for the language today. You know, we need to strengthen that a little bit. But you're a man of your word, and you've always said you'd do what you're going to do. And so we're looking to count on you. One of the things we've got to be careful with in developing this corridor, though, is to not undo what's already been done. We do not need to damage the businesses that are down there operating today just for the hope that some other new business can come in there and prosper from this thing once it's built. Because we know that there is damage that comes with growth. Anytime there's something good, there's always somebody that gets dropped off, right? So we've got to be careful. So the critical part of this whole thing is parking. If we're going to develop the Walton Arch Center parking lot, and that's what everybody knows, and it's not called City Parking Lot 152, it's called the Walton Arch Center parking lot from coast to coast, okay? So that's what it is. If we're going to develop that, and we've all seen a culture corridor before, commitment that that's a big part of the vision for that thing okay but it's the the walton arts center and dixon street and theater squared and the entertainment district need good quality parking replacement if we're going to do that if we're not going to do that we we've been about this for two and a half years don't develop it it's working We don't need to develop that lot. It's working, right? It's already working down there. But if we are going to develop it, we've got to have quality parking to replace it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Hi, Mr. Mayor. My name is Molly Ron. I live at 2584 North Elizabeth Avenue here in Fayetteville. And I am here representing the Advertising and Promotion Commission. We receive our funding, as you know, from hotels, but also primarily the majority of our funding comes from restaurants patronized both by tourists and by people that live here. I have been so proud to be a part of this process in developing the Cultural Arts Corridor. Mayor, thank you and your team for your leadership on all aspects of the bond. My comments right now are limited to... talking about the corridor and the development of the West Avenue lot. But I may have other comments at future council meetings. We have, from the beginning, positioned this as something that is transformative for our city. And I have faith in Peter and in our team of architects that we can deliver that. We have heard a lot about parking this evening, and we absolutely understand and recognize that proximate parking is a need. I appreciate and agree with what Joe Finnell said, that we do need to not only encourage new businesses, but also bolster our existing businesses that are on Dixon Street and that are succeeding. I just would like to say that I believe that the way the bond and the way that it's written, I believe that we can achieve that. I believe that you in the way that we have seen this language presented does that. Yes, the lot is working, but it could also be something so much better. And I think that what we have done that I'm really proud of this design and I'm supportive of it. And the A&P Commission is supportive of it. Thank you. I'm losing my voice. I apologize. Yes. hello mayor uh my name is william benjamin publin v i've been a lifelong fayetteville resident as have uh those who for me carry the same name i live at 353 north ralston avenue so just a couple blocks from here and i come to this issue from a couple fronts and a couple of uh array of experiences um the first thing that i want to say is that i worked for uh joe finnell and Actually, other businesses on Dixon, as a true foot soldier in the fight of parking, I was a valet for several years. I can tell you from experience that if you take away parking from the downtown, those 10,000 people from Alabama are not going to park somewhere and take a bus. They're going to drive around Dixon Street over and over in their 2022 suburban SUV with 67 seats and two people in it. But when you want to talk about the sustainability of this city, taking away parking is going to raise the carbon footprint of this city. And I can tell you that because I have a master's degree in bioengineering and I study sustainability and carbon footprints at the University of Arkansas as a full-time staff researcher. This is a problem. People are not going to park and walk. Or take a bus from somewhere else. They're going to drive around in circles until another car moves out of a parking space. Or until my minions or those who have taken the role that I have so gladly given them to be the foot soldier in parking. Until they have a spot for them. So, yeah. I just want to aspect that I can tell you as a fact is having done it for years, people are not going to go elsewhere. They won't park in close, and that's going to continue, especially as this grows and the giant new stadium renovation has how many more people that are going to come into this town if the sports ball team can ever be any good. The second aspect that I come to this is someone who lives downtown and lives in that area, as is with the current amount of parking. I get people who park in my driveway, and I have to call tow trucks to get them away. So all of us who live downtown and live in this area are going to experience that, I imagine, a lot more if there's not parking available. And the third aspect that I come from this is that in 2011, I founded an organization called Spark Foundation. So you may have heard of it. I've been up here before advocating for things that I like, such as green spaces. And I think a lot of what this represents. These bonds are phenomenal. I think everything that they do is phenomenal. My only issue is that taking away parking is going to be something that's going to cause trouble. I've been up here, I helped raise over $100,000 to expand Gully Park. I am way for green spaces. I am not normally one to come up to a podium and yell about parking spots. But what we do as an organization is provide money for our Fayetteville public schools, for our elementary schools, to make sure that there are health and recreation opportunities for our schools and for our community. We did it by expanding Kelly Park. We do it in running programs in the schools. We bought the tees at the new We have a disc golf course at Walker Park. And we've done a lot of other things. Our number one fundraiser is called the Hero Half Marathon. It's our largest event. We partner with Fayetteville Firefighters Union. And we bring in, this year we had over 600 runners come. And our event ends down there, and we're really looking forward to a beautiful new area, and we think it will work great with our race. But we have concerns about if we've doubled from last year, from a little over 300 to a little over 600, if we double that race again in the future, where are these people going to park? So by taking away this parking and limiting our ability to grow this race, you're actually taking away money from Fayetteville public schools and from health and fitness opportunities from elementary schools. That's what our organization provides. And so, in summary, if you want to take away parking, you want to increase the carbon footprint of Fayetteville and reduce funding for Fayetteville public education. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mr. Mayor, my name is Michael Ferguson. I'm at 4273 East Oakmont Drive in Fayetteville. I've lived in Fayetteville all my life, 39 years. I played baseball at Walker Park. My dad played baseball at Walker Park. You, two years ago, made an opening statement for us out there when we opened that new regional park and said that you would give us four new fields so we could complete our fields out there to play ball at. Our fields at Walker Park... While they're nice, they're outdated. They need a lot of things, renovations, they need a lot of things. For another thing, safety. I do not want to put a four-year-old child, five-year-old, six-year-old, seven-year-old child at Walker Park, go to the bathroom and have issues. We've had numerous issues there over the last couple years. We need all of our fields at one place. We can still utilize Walker Park in a term where we can use it for practice facilities and still use overflow events there. It's nothing like having a grandma that comes out of town and has grandkids at two different parks, and she can't go watch both kids play at the same time. We serve over 1,000 kids a year in our program, and it's just going to increase each year. If we had a true park where we could have eight fields or more, We could host tournaments every weekend like Springdale, Bentonville, Rogers, and that number of 76,000 that was mentioned earlier would increase tremendously, not only over the 300,000, but you're talking about we did 76,000, and that was just with three tournaments. If we host a tournament every other weekend, you're talking over $500,000 a year. We had a state tournament out there back at the 1st of July. We had 25 teams. Out of those 25 teams, 20 of them stayed in hotels in this area. Yes, we got an extra day out of them because it rained, but that's more revenue for that. So please continue the promise that you made us to get all of our fields finished. Why do we need to not start a new project? Let's finish the project that we have so then we can go on to some new projects. There's no sense just leaving it up there as a dust mound and watching it, you know, fade away and slide off the mountain again. Let's finish the park out. Let's make it nice so we can get all our families all in one place. Nothing against the other programs, but let's finish what we have, what we started, and make a safe place for our kids to play baseball. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, my name is Brian Crown. I don't technically live in Fayetteville proper, but my wife and I do own a business in the entertainment district in the new cultural arts corridor that we look forward to seeing being constructed and completed. I like to say that George's is the second largest arts presenter in Fayetteville behind the Walton Arts Center. Yes, we are a 91-year-old club and bar in some people's mind, but we only present music, special events, and arts. I'm looking forward to helping support this bond initiative, the whole piece of it. I mean, all the pieces of it. I think it's critical for the evolution of keeping Fayetteville relevant. And very excited to support it, but just want to reiterate what my good friend Sarah Devo said earlier as well. It's absolutely critical that the support of the bond piece for the arts corridor has parking replacement tied to it. And if we can strengthen the language of it, you know, I'm not the lawyer and I'm always a little paranoid that if you don't have the legalese really tight there, you don't want to give anybody any wiggle room on it. So if we can tighten up that language, I look forward as a business owner in Fayetteville and a member of the Dixon Street Merchants Association to support. Thank you Brian. Who else would like to address us? My name is Stephanie Roberts. I live at 1476 West Weddington Drive. Also known as Reese Roberts. I'm the GM at Bourdina House. I've worked for Joe for nine years, so I've kind of seen what happens whenever you squeeze parking in the entertainment district. And of course that affects our patrons, but it also affects our employees. And I watched some nights I have people buddy up to walk back to their cars at the end of the night, and they might have to walk six or plus blocks to get to their cars at 1 a.m. And I think that the safety of the people that work downtown is also really important. So anytime you squeeze, any parking in the entertainment district, it just pushes all the employees out further as well. So something to keep in mind. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Mayor. Mike Johnson, 324 North Olive in Fayetteville. I've been before you before talking about University of Arkansas and things like that. Tonight I'm here as the chairman of the Walton Arts Council Board. And I want to compliment everyone that spoke before me. They've articulately laid out any number of things. that this bond issue can do. And I compliment you, you all, the entire team, in putting it together and covering all the bases and then letting the people vote how they feel. I would encourage you. I've learned at the university in doing bond issues. This, to me, is a bond intent resolution. The intent resolution needs to be as flexible as you can make it, not overpromising what you're going to deliver, but as flexible as you can make it. It's going to happen in phases over a number of years. Things are going to change. You want the flexibility in that language to be able to be moving around a little bit as you go out and get that money. The language, I think, there may be some areas you could strengthen. But the language needs to cover as many of the bases as you can without overpromising. What's the definition of a pool? What's an auditorium? What's an aquatic center? Maybe you can cover those things. The parking is in the language, and I think it's covered. Yes, maybe you could be more specific, but it's in there, and you have the ability, once this is approved, and I think it will be, that you can do things differently. Then that may have to be moved around. You're probably not going to get everything done. Just like the transportation We didn't get everything done, but we got a lot done between 2006 and today So I encourage you I think you've got a solid Program laid out the intent. Let's get it passed Let's get it before the voters and let's get the voters to pass it. We do need parking and You've made a commitment. Approximate, at least replacing what might be lost. I encourage you to do better than that. And I think we need to get out there and do that. And I think that Garver, the contract should come up here in another couple of weeks. We need to get started on identifying it so it's just not language, it's reality. And we found the places that are approximate. There are the number of spaces. You can see them when you're coming out or going in. So thank you. Appreciate all the work. It's only started. We have a lot of years ahead of us, but the community needs that. We need to invest in the community just like we have the last 12 to 14 years. Thank you. uh sloan scrogg and i live at 3509 north sandpiper i'd like to thank you mayor for the bond initiative you presented it matches up pretty well with my campaign platform you've got support for the fire you've got support for the police and i'm glad to see those on parking if there's any changes please make it an incremental I don't want to see large changes either way. I obviously don't want to see all of downtown be a parking lot, but I do fear losing too much at one time. On certain issues where there's going to be partnerships, like possibly Lewis with the Fayetteville High School and possibly an aquatic park that people are asking for, Those partnerships that they go with the high school, we need to make sure that the high school doesn't have complete control of that and can kind of take it away from the citizens. We already see that. They have playgrounds, and the citizens can't go to those playgrounds all the time. So I'm concerned about if we kind of have those partnerships that they may actually take it away from the citizens for large parts of time. So thank you. Thank you. Hey, Slep. Oh, yeah. Sorry, Jeff. I was just going to tell you, enjoy your next three Tuesdays. Okay. Thank you. Go eat dinner, go out, do stuff. Trust me. I appreciate it. I would say it really isn't that bad, but it really is. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right. Who wants to go first? Yes, it's really not that bad No, it's not no, I'm not sure since I'm not a Lawyer either on on what can be done in the language on the parking? I I don't know if that's a question for kit or if that's a question for Some of the people that that are writing it or how we can do that Because my big thing and what I've heard more than anything from people about parking is not necessarily the need for it or the You've always got people that are they think we've got enough in other places that that's not the argument that I hear most of it it is make sure that regardless of who is on the council or who sits in the mayor seat or who the People and personalities are that this is set in motion in a way that can't be changed that the mayor has done a good job in my opinion of saying publicly many times I'm not going to take away parking without replacing parking but I If the mayor is not here for some reason, I do think it's important to put something in there. And I don't know what that is. I don't know if it's. as Sarah suggested some sort of wording that that parking can't be taken away until Replacement spaces of equal or more value or are completed I don't know what that might be but I do think people are gonna feel a lot more comfortable with the bond issue as a whole But certainly the parking piece of it which is part of the Arts Corridor piece of it because I've heard some people say unless I'm unless I can believe that that the parking will be replaced in some way that doesn't have anything to do with the people and the personalities then then they're a little leery about voting for that piece of it and and other pieces of it frankly so um i don't know what the exact word is i don't know what the legal means are but i would encourage us to to look at that somehow so that we are not caught in a position um a few years from now where names change, people change, and what people thought they voted for gets manipulated. And suddenly, a very detrimental decision, in my opinion, that might be made of taking a parking lot away without replacing it so that we can condition people to walk or take non-existent public transportation. I just... Somebody mentioned the Walton Arts Center, and there are a lot of senior citizens that go to the Walton Arts Center, and I'm quickly approaching it. But I talk to a lot of people of all ages at the Walton Arts Center, and I've spent – I've actually made an effort over the last six months or a year every time I'm there to ask people just very simply. about parking and would they would they consider walking one lady who's a lot younger than me I mentioned the the Washington County Courthouse and I said it's downhill and she said not both ways and if you can make it And she said if you can somehow create that downhill both ways then then I'll consider it but I mean we know that's impossible there's not that many places to park down there there's not that many places to create a structure down there so I am concerned about it very concerned about it and I'm concerned about putting this forward to the voters and having them think they vote for something when in reality later on down the line uh it gets changed and uh bait and switch is not something that I think we intend to do But I think we take the personalities and the people out of it and make sure that we lock language in that creates what the voters really actually are voting for. Thank you. Okay. Mark. As we move forward on this one, I hope that we will remember is we've got to be united in front of the electorate in order to get this passed. In reviewing the language, I think that there is an earnest and... direct promise to protect the parking in the entertainment district. This is the word that I represent, and I'm very protective of the businesses in the entertainment district and the importance of maintaining the accessibility. And I do think that we have to look at proximity when we look at developing parking and parking I think it's probably the most important thing and element as we move forward. I'm very excited about the arts corridor. I do think that anyone that's done a lot of research on art, the economic development importance of the creative economy Fayetteville has always had a creative economy it's part of our heritage and there is some misunderstanding of what the creative quarter is it's so much more than just a parking lot And so when we get out to talk to our friends and neighbors about the corridor, we need to talk about it as an economic driver, about a quality of life that is already part of the heritage of Fayetteville that we're going not only to preserve, that we're going to enhance. The other elements of this, the language in this bond activity, certainly points out the support that we are offering to police and fire. Anyone that's been around Fayetteville for as long as I have, which is long, you know, our police are now headquartered in JCPenney's auxiliary. And it's been pretty marvelous the way that we've handled that over the years to create a maze of offices and... the telecommunications center and the efficiency, despite the fact that that was not built to be a police headquarters. And it's time that we recognize that we're a growing city and that we've got to invest in good technology, good efficiency and good safety for our citizens. So another thing, when we're talking about this bond issue to our neighbors to get it passed, is to let them know that we have this vision and this, support of safety and protection fire and police as we move forward with this so I'm pretty pleased with the language there's a lot that in our hopes and dreams that we wish we could have included and that we wish that we could have and we can take everything a step at a time like we always have and But now is the time to be unified so that we can get this taken care of and taken care of in a timely manner. So let's work together and not be divisive and look for opportunities to resolve any of the conflicting issues that we have in discussing this. So I look forward to hearing a lot from you. uh the folks around town more on this we certainly have it all in black and white and in front of everyone and it's time to recognize the importance of this bond issue and to get it taken care of so i hope that we can do that as a a city thanks all right who else In response to Alderman Tennant's question, there is not a, you know, when attorneys draft bond issues, we want to make it fairly broad so that basically whatever the city council decides to do in that area, they can do. And so if you look at the question on the cultural arts corridor, when it refers to parking, it says, which may include parking or new parking. So there's no promise of parking. This could be changed if that was the City Council's intent to place replacement parking as one of the first projects. I mean the wording could be done like that, but then you would be, if the citizens passed it, then that would be in fact the first project that And you couldn't then change your mind and say, well, you know, that citizens might have voted for that, but we're going to go back to the way we thought it should have been in the first place. Normally, when we draft these questions, they're fairly broad because they're all a portion of in case you can't finance it all. And so we try to use those terms to make sure that if we ever get challenged on a project that we can say, yes, the voters did approve this. On the other hand, if you want to do like Alderman Tennant was talking about, ensure that replacement parking, regardless of who would be administering it. is going to be done before other parts of that particular bond question were done, then you can put language in there that would require that, and then you would have to do it. Then you couldn't go and start on a different part of the Cultural Arts Corridor until you worked on the replacement parking, or at least you couldn't start attacking the Walton Arts Center parking lot and taking away the parking before replacement parking was there. So it's really – and invite Gordon to come up too, you could do that. I don't know if you want to do that or not. It depends on the council. But they could, in fact, make limits like that. You can get as specific as you want to. You're just bound by it. That's the issue. If the conditions change in the future, the only way to undo a ballot approval is by another vote of the people, not the council. You know, the idea going into this is which is why we use the which may include language in each one of these questions because you're, you know, in very many of these situations not likely to be able to do everything that's in the list. But you may do everything in the list. But we can tighten it up as much as you want to. Wait a minute, Carl. Wait. Hang on. Hang on. Let him finish. Well, that was really all I had to say, but I can draft whatever you want me to draft. Okay. All right. Now, Carl. Well, come on up. Come on up. Speak to the mic. I mean, you already started. Come on up. I'm Carl Collier. And what the mayor has said to us in the last number of months that we've been working on this is, part of the steering committee, is that the replacement parking would be in place before the Walton Arts Center lots touched. Now, it's not that we mind other parts of the cultural being done. It's just that until we take away those 290 spaces, that sustain Theater Squared, the Walton Arts Center, George's, and the businesses, the replacement 290 have to be in place before we jeopardize any of those 290s that are there. That's the understanding, and that's what I'd like you to tie up is, and it can be tied up, but I just feel like that we're going to end up needing 500 spaces. That's what the public... Things are anticipated is going to be is that I visit with those around They're looking at 400 to 500 needed to sustain that 50 acres that we want people to wander down and Enjoy, but also to keep everybody in business. It's down there. Thanks very much Okay Can I say something real quick? Yeah. So what's interesting is that we've heard from, if you combine Joe and Brian and Carl, I would guess there's, what, 150? something years of business ownership between the three of them and the entertainment district they were all three equally passionate about the parking issue we've heard from the Walnut Art Center we've heard from a lot of people I don't live down there and I don't have a business down there so I tend to listen to the people that do work down there and that do have businesses down there and that do have payroll people and the people that live down there is the one gentleman said um so I think when when someone mentioned just a minute ago we would be bound by it I think that's a good thing I think that's precisely what I would like to see is that we are bound by that because I just I just go back to please take the personalities and the people that are in this room out and just replace it with the next bunch or whoever that is you just don't know what's going to happen And you don't know what the thought of the day, week, month, year is going to be. And I think we should be bound by it. I think we should be bound that in 10 years, if we privatize the Walton Arts Center parking lot and someone goes underneath it and builds 290 spaces and builds something on top of it, similar to what the University of Arkansas did to build two, football fields on top of their parking deck and they've got an equal size parking deck underneath it. Maybe we do that and sign a long-term lease with somebody to privatize it and somebody build that for us. But either way, we should be bound by replacing them somehow, some way. And then if we only take 75 of those spaces and we don't develop the whole lot, but we – which I think might be a decent idea to take some of the spaces for – you know, seating areas or permanent music venues or whatever we do. I mean, I think things like Bikes, Blues, and Barbecues are going to benefit greatly for the Arts Corridor because if you temporarily close West Avenue during that, I mean, Bikes, Blues, and Barbecue is like having four Razorback games in four days from a tax revenue standpoint. So I think it's good, and we wouldn't have to take the entire lot, but replace those 75 if you take those 75 and have something that binds you as a city. Well, we can look at that project, but we have to look at replacing those spaces before we can move forward, and we have to do that first. I don't think that's a bad thing. Again, I don't know how to do it, but if we just put the word, you know, a couple of words, I think can lock us in, and I think it's a good thing to be bound by that. Thank you. Okay. Adele. Adele. Well, I agree completely. And I personally, as many of you know, have already been bound by that because, as you know, our mayor said that. And I believed him, and that's what I kept telling people when they would say something to me about parking. I said, the mayor said he will replace whatever we take of the Walton Art Center parking lot. So I feel bound by it, and I agree with Justin completely. that we do need to be bound because, yeah, like he says, people and personalities do change. And we want that parking to be there to sustain all of our arts corridor. And so I feel very strongly that we need to be bound, however it is. Kyle. I'm going to play devil's advocate for just a second. Please don't rush the stage. Okay. I agree taking away parking right now would be an absolute disaster, but a lot could change in 10, 15 years, and being stuck with a set amount of parking might be a disaster at that point. It might also turn out to be not enough, and I can't predict the future on that. So I just want to make sure that we maintain enough flexibility to respond to conditions over time, especially rapidly changing technological conditions as they may be. Whatever we do, I want to make sure we don't. find ourselves prohibited from a temporary disruption that might come from a solution that replaces parking or restructures the parking on the current site. We may need to build a deck on that lot, and that would be a temporary disruption that may end up replacing more spaces. I just want to make sure we don't get locked into language that... that stops us from being able to do something like that so I'm open to consider it either way I just I don't want to rush into to that decision and make a make a 16-year commitment on one night I assume we're not going to do this tonight No, but we probably need to get, hear from some of the rest of the council members about this parking issue and about whether there should be some restrictions that would say that at least replacement parking would be, a contract for it would be approved or something before parking would be removed. Or leave it as it is where right now it's just very general and it may happen or may not. As the attorneys, we kind of need to know what we should be drafting, if anything. Okay. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. Sometimes in the last 10 years I've felt like the designated lightning rod, and I might feel like that again tonight. First I'll say I'm not against it all building a parking deck down there, but I am against making a commitment before we understand that there is a need. And I know a lot of people in this room feel like there is a need today, but Justin, you said let's take the personalities and people out of it. And I think we have to make decisions like this on the basis of careful study and careful data, not on the feelings we have about how about our needs today. It's not the feelings that are going to drive this. very strong feelings about this issue for a long time and always my response has been We may need to do that but let's not over commit ourselves to the beginning and I think lots of times that that pushback is which I am attempting to be very neutral about, that pushback is taken as being in extraordinary opposition to the success of Dixon Street or the Walton Arts Center or our city itself. But the fact is that we have no idea what the future is going to be like. And the past isn't better just because it happened, and the future isn't better just because it's new. But it is going to be different. Things are going to be different than the past. And I think in some cases, in some ways, we're a city that wants faster horses, like people told Henry Ford. And we have no idea what the future is going to bring. And I think that's the most important fact that we can realize. Right now, parking revenue is down and revenues in downtown are up. It's easy to say that's because of the football team, but it's been a trend that's gone on for longer than that. This is because something on the order of 10 or 12 percent of people do walk and do bike and do use Uber. They don't have to wear jogging clothes to do those things, as was remarked to us more than once. We can have a frank discussion about what our resources are and what our needs are. And this is the most important fact aside from, you know, I think the recognition that the future might be different than what we expect. We actually did a study on this and we actually were told that you know what you might need a structure and I've endorsed that study over and over again but the other thing that that study says is that there are thousands of spaces which we should manage better and that we should attempt to manage them better first. So right now we're in a we're in a what a lot of people I think would like to be a stalemate but we don't have to be in a stalemate. We put new parking down on West Avenue where we can find it and there's more proposed for on street facilities on West Avenue and there's more proposed in the Cultural Arts Corridor than just Fay Jones Woodland next to the library and just this parking lot being redone. There are whole streets that are proposed to be redone. There are so many opportunities for so-called replacement parking that don't involve building one single solitary structure. What if we were able to gain access to other spaces in a permanent way? We've assumed that's not possible, but we haven't yet tried. What if we're able to build new facilities on other places? What if, you know, our genetics are not so different than other people living in other towns with good transit? And we can have good transit in the next decade. What if autonomous vehicles become a thing, like everybody who works in tech is trying to make them a thing? I mean, nobody believed in Facebook to begin with either, and now there are billions of people that use it. To our detriment, maybe. The same thing will happen with other forms of technology. Thank you. So I think we should build a deck if we can prove it to ourselves that we need it. But it would be a real mistake to tie the hands of future generations that might have more knowledge than us that might actually be smarter than us. John. Thank you Mr. Mayor. Let me start off by saying congratulations Teresa Turk. I will not be on the city council after January 1 but I still have an opinion I'd still like to share that with you. Matthew I agree with all of your analysis. I agree that we do not have the wisdom to foresee the future with very high accuracy rates. But I also agree that we have some businessmen and women who are invested in the downtown arts district. And we need to decide tonight if we're going to support them or not. Now, if that's building a deck, if that's not building a deck, if that's innovating in existing spots and reworking our parking so that we can get more spots out of it. And whatever we do, we have to. accommodate them. They have to feel good about it. They have to feel like their businesses can survive in the environment we create. And businessmen, Mark, you well know, like certainty. They don't like uncertainty. And this is why Mr. Collier and Mr. Fennell are feeling a bit insecure here, because we're throwing this big uncertainty at them. And we have to shore them up if we want people to continue to invest in the downtown area. We have to support those who are invested there now. So whatever we do, whether it's innovate here or innovate there, we have to make sure they feel secure about it. And that's what I want. Thank you. Okay. Kyle. I'm just going to add one more point to my argument for flexibility here, and that's that the vote for the bond isn't going to be the only vote that folks get for this. Every two years, they get to replace half of us. And if we make a promise that we're going to take care of the parking, I think that it won't take them long to make sure that we do if we go back on that. So Adela talked about feeling the commitment that you've made, and I think we all feel the commitment that you've made to making sure that we do. that we are conscious of the parking down there and that we do take care of our business owners in the area. So I know it's tough to ask for trust on something like that, but y'all have the leverage in the long term over whether or not we could stay up here making those decisions. Jeff? I want to ask Kit a question and then Paul a question, if you don't mind. So you mentioned... the wording here we We would be bound if we put wording in here We would be bound for the length of time that it would take to pay these bonds off, correct? I to whatever. Yeah, right. I mean, you couldn't vary from whatever the citizens had approved. Right. So if you change the wording to make requirements on it, then you're bound by those requirements and can't spend money except for what you said you're going to do. Until such time that the bond is paid off and this conversation happens again. 10 to 12 years. And that leads me to that question. So if sales tax is paid off you're conservative by nature when it comes to planning and things like that which I appreciate we're saying how many years before we think this if we do if the voters pass this that we would be paying these bonds off I say we have a reasonable expectation to pay it off within 10 to 12 years so My point is, and by the way, I very much appreciate Matthew's opinion and Kyle's opinion, because I think they make some really good points. I've seen some technology advances in the last couple of years that just amaze me. However, when we talk about 10, 12 years, we're not talking about locking the hands of generations of people. We're talking about the next decade, maybe plus. When I think of the last 10 or 12 years, while things have gotten better, Things like this and things like, yeah, well, airline travel is actually worse. But there's a lot of things that are not better. And so the thought of having a transportation network here in the city in 10 to 12 years, the thought of having – and that all may happen, but it allows us to keep our promises. It also enables that when this bond is paid off, the council after the next council can then figure out what they want to put in the next bond. And if they want to change it and if they want to do something about the Walton Arts Center lot or any other parking situation down there, they'd be free to do it. So I just don't – I respectfully disagree with we're locking – people down for things for years and years and years and years. We're really just locking us down to the time it pays off this bond, which we're not paying the bond off. The people are paying the bond off. So if they're going to vote on something... I think they need to make sure that they know what they're voting on in this particular, just in this particular piece of the bond. So that would be my argument against blocking the hands for years and years and years because we've heard Paul and we've heard Kit talk about, you know, these things could get paid off in 10, 12, 13 years. That's not that long. It wasn't that long ago. But 2006, I mean, it seems like yesterday to me. So it won't be that long. So I'm just saying, I hope we have tremendous improvements in public transit and everything else in the next 10, 12 years. But history serves and shows that that's a very costly undertaking. And while I depend on the creative young people to come up with things, I don't know that they can fix that in 10 or 12 years. And I'd like to make sure that we can fix it here and now moving forward. Thank you. I'd like to make a couple of comments, if I may. Just so you understand, if you change the wording and you say you must build or you must have replacement parking, what you're going to have to do, you're going to have to say that before you can do the corridor. That means you must do that. You don't have any choice at that point in time. Okay? The other thing that I do want to comment on, don't forget that those 292 spaces also support a bond issue. If we get into that and attempt to replace that, we're going to have to look for replacement revenue to do that. We've committed and made a covenant that we're going to generate enough revenue to pay those bond issues. And if you direct that those spaces are going to go, I will have to engage certified public accountant, probably BKD, and convince them that... We can replace those spaces and the revenue from those spaces. I don't know exactly how I could do that. unless we do have replacement parking. So there is a check there that's going to say if we replace it, we're going to have to do something to replace it to meet those bond covenants, either that or jack the rates up to the point that nobody's going to go down there, which we're not going to go. So there is an additional control check. What Gordon and Kit has said, if you put in that bond issue – language that says you're going to do the replacement parking, what you would be saying is you're going to do the replacement parking before you do that corridor. You're going to have to do that. You don't have a choice. Okay. I think it probably wouldn't have to be so extreme. I think and this is something I think that we're going to probably have to work on and then present at a second meeting because I know there's not unanimity here. But I think the replacement parking could be tied not for the whole corridor, but just for any effect on the Walton Art Center parking lot. So that if the parking at the Walton Art Center parking lot has not been touched and you want to do other things on the corridor, there'd be no issue. The only thing would be is if. If the Walton Arts Center was going to be changed where parking spaces were going to be lost and there would have to be a plan and a commitment, which we already have from Mayor Jordan, that replacement parking will be there before the parking spaces are removed from the Walton Arts Center. The rest of the corridor, that doesn't make any difference. I mean, you can do the Fay Jones woods and everything else. That's not reducing parking. So I think we could draft this in such a way to see, and then it's just going to be a vote of the council, you know, and that's what democracy is. But at this point, I'm not ready to try to propose any particular language, and I doubt if Gordon is, unless you just want to do it on the fly, Gordon. So many different scenarios, everything I come up with, but what if that happened once? Yeah. Yeah. This question itself is over $30 million, so we don't want to mess it up. Okay? So we can't make a decision, we can't offer you the kind of language that you would need to make a decision tonight, but hopefully we can on the 18th. Okay. Thank you. Mayor and council, a couple things. When we first applied for the grant to do the design and the design excellence, this is an outdoor cultural arts corridor grant. I say that to you because the biggest question about whether we wanted to move forward was whether our community could have a conversation about a parking chain. I think there are people in this room that know that I said to them, if we're so locked on it that we can't do anything, that we don't need to waste our time applying for a grant and using staff resources to do it. We have way too many other things that are taking our time. So I want to keep that in mind because this topic was a topic from the very beginning about whether we can get to a solution, of which I think we can. The other thing is I think it's staff's job to make sure that we're keeping in front of you data because we get blamed for your decision without a vote. And I say that to you because the very first study, there was a question, which three elements are most important to you in this civic space? And the number one item was parking. I say that to you because this is data. That's survey one for the public. We didn't apply for a $1.77 million design grant to get a gussied up parking lots. I'll say that we were looking for something transformative, sales tax generating, something that would draw people to our community, give us new amenities to compete in our region. And that requires changing things. And we all know that human nature, one of the hardest things is change. The second big part in this data is it's not just about replacing the parking, though that has been the commitment of my boss and why I talk with all of you about that being his It's proximity of that parking to certain locations. We can build a deck on the corner. We could go to Mike and say, we want to build a deck on Arkansas or Douglas and whatever that street is over there the university looked at a site. It isn't going to work. It's not proximate. This discussion is about proximity to where we place it, which is important and also an item in here. Another item, we talked about how people access this space. area. They access this area, the number one method, by vehicle. It can change. I think where I personally struggle is, you know, I went to an ICNA conference, you're out constantly looking for things of the future and you hear about autonomous vehicles. The staff will tell you, it's hard for me to think about that. I'm a control freak. I can't even, I can't imagine giving them something that doesn't have a driver. But it's coming. I was also one of those people that wasn't sure that there would ever not be a fax in my lifetime, which doesn't even exist today. So we've all gone in in our lives of things that are created and get extinct in our own lifetime. And so that's why the flexibility, this discussion about... Kip brought up an issue to Lonnell and I to consider about the boundary, the hard boundary, and the language. Did we need to broaden what we talked about, that boundary, because we were going to talk about parking, because it could be argued about what is proximate. And so we talked with Gordon about that and tried to give ourselves flexibility. Flexibility is critical in this, and you used it in the last bond issue. One because we had projects we completed. under budget, which gave us more money to list new projects that we never discussed with the public or listed that you added. AND ONE THAT WE'RE NOW PUTTING IN THE NEXT LIST BECAUSE WE ENDED UP HAVING INFLATION ON THE END OF THAT 16-YEAR PERIOD, WHICH DOESN'T ALLOW THAT PROJECT TO BE COMPLETED. SO YOU HAVE TO BE CAREFUL ABOUT LISTING THESE THINGS IN BECAUSE THAT WASN'T EVEN ON THE ORIGINAL LIST AND IT'S NOT GOING TO BE FINISHED EVEN AFTER YOU ADDED IT BECAUSE OF CHANGES IN THAT 15-YEAR PERIOD. SO I THINK FLEXIBILITY IS IMPORTANT. There is data, and I want to encourage the council, since you're not here tonight, to go look at the survey data. And I'm going to use a friend of mine that I think will probably shock some people, but Charlie Collins was probably one of the most effective representatives in Little Rock on issues on PACE. He was effective on issues about Internet sales tax. We had a lot of discussions of him working with us. Not necessarily, I'll speak to myself, the party I'm from. But he worked hard on the city's behalf. But he also recently lost the election because of not listening to people. And the thing that we as staff bring to the council and to the mayor is this is what the people are saying. And either we've got to educate for these other items or we need to act on what we are hearing because these are the very people that have to vote for all of this funding. And the last thing we want to do is create an issue that not only affects this item, but causes someone to be easier to campaign against a single item by saying just go vote no and killing our fire stations for six-minute response times, our police headquarters building, fixing drainage that's been a problem for 10 years in the city. We have a lot of extremely important things that will never be handled in the everyday capital budget. So it's important that what we put forward that citizens can get behind it and feel like that we're listening to it. And I agree with this data because we also have data that says we had 1,900 spaces that aren't utilized. Let's be honest about that. But just like we heard the question about a person who may not walk from the county courthouse parking lot to go to the Walton Arts Center, that response is proximity. It's not availability. And we all do different things at different points and times and ages in our life. Garner Stoll has a saying that I have picked up on since he's been here from Austin. And it's sometimes it's not either or, it's and. And. We need to educate about our available parking, and we need to look for solutions for people who might look for less expensive options and commute or shuttle to it. And we need to deal with a population that wants to be proximate and willing to pay for that proximity. The other thing I want to point out that that study says is that our current occupancy of those lots on our peak periods Thursday, Friday and Saturday are at the 90 percent level. That 292 is utilized today. That's why it's important and why we're hearing from the public about the need for it and if it goes away the timing of how it goes away to not be able to negatively impact them. It is our job to put that information in front of you. It's in survey data that they said, not us. Just like we heard about the aquatic center. You haven't talked a lot about that particular item tonight, about whether it's something you want to broaden in the question. Because it was the number one item for homeowners. 65% of our city are renters. And the survey was underrepresented in that group, which is why I think the Parks Board, Connie might speak to this in a future meeting, why there was at least some consideration about where did it really fall. And when you looked at it in all of these categories, is it a great amenity? Yes. Our number one item that staff advised the mayor in developing this list was operational budgetary impact. ongoing operational impact. Where we could build capital that did not require ongoing operating dollars every year, got a higher priority from the staff. If we can spend money and overlay roads and get rid of potholes and catch up with what we're doing and that buys us 15 years of that road time period for overlay, it's saving us on staff time. We're not going out and doing the same thing over and over and we can allocate those resources on other things. You know, the Cultural Arts Corridor has a programming arm that's going to be needed on this. To make it transformative, we're going to have an entity that has to do it. Because if you go to any of these places, there's one of them there. And that's going to have an operational cost. So we are balancing where we're adding operational impact as we go into these discussions. So the survey results from... There have been... There were seven public meetings prior to input on this prior to the first one today at two o'clock in the town center which we had almost 50 percent of the people that attended. It was the first time that they'd been to it so we're still getting input into that. We have another one. Somebody yell me the time 5 30 on Thursday. Come to it at the town center. You can park in the deck for free. But come to it, because we're looking for your feedback. Our newspaper, Greg Hartman, one of our long residents, talked about its citizens' responsibilities to find out, in this particular question, what is transformative? Is it doing what you want to do? Are the things we're doing what people want to pay for? We think we're getting a fabulous design out of it, because we are responding to the feedback that we're getting. And... But the survey results from the first one that show why we're even talking about parking is important. It's on there. The survey from the second, we dug a little deeper. We looked at multiple locations. We think if you looked at the slide in the board, we talked about all three of those options. Our current 1900, making our streets more accessible, our sidewalks better lighted, safer for people to walk. That's in the plan. It's also in our transportation plan to continue to do. And Matthew brought it up in the 2019 budget using parking funds to continue and begin doing that even more so because he believes that we have opportunities that we're missing. And we believe he's right, and the study says that. But there's a proximity public response on this. Parking, in this question, is the single highest first-time feedback. So we can't ignore that. We have to think about the very people because while you get to set it, you don't get to spend it unless the citizens approve it. And I keep coming back to, and that means the other way. If our citizens come back and go, we don't wanna spend money on a parking garage, I guess, because it's proximate, then we won't have a transformative cultural arts corridor. So we're trying to do what we think is important for this to be successful. And I want you to go look at this data because we've had the first meeting of the Arts Center. We were at the Farmer's Market. We've been at Fayetteville Public High School, Fayetteville Public Library. We met with local artists. We've met with the Walton Arts Center Board. We've met with the Dixon Street Merchants. We've met with citizens, for those of you that have various groups. We've had two meetings at the Town Center. This is not being dreamed up without input. So I just want to say that to you, and I want you to remember a word, because if you are going to talk about tighter language on parking, the word that needs to be in there that we're hearing is some kind of proximity period, because that's what is being talked about. And we have a current 90% demand, even in a declining revenue year, that is still the first places that people park. So we have to deal with it. And I want all of you to be at least consciously making your decision off of the information that we're hearing and that we're telling you what we're hearing. And that's what we're hearing. Thank you.
 Okay. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Well, a couple of things. First, I appreciate the very respectful discussion. And I think to explain a little bit why this feels so important to me and why I do feel very strongly that this decision is a generational one is because what we're building is meant to last for generations. Even if it's a parking structure, it's not meant to last until the bonds are over. These decisions are meant to last for a long time. It's why I think they're important and why this debate is worthy to have even at 940 So there's a couple things. Right now, today, cyclists and pedestrians take their lives in their hands every time they bike through that lot, and we can't fix it because of this controversy. Because there are 20 spaces on the south side of that lot that we have decided are more important than fixing a real safety issue. And now we're saying we can't fix those even until we replace them. A real safety issue. The goalposts keep moving. We put new spaces on West and they don't count because they should have been there to begin with, even though nobody wanted them before we did them. We can't keep moving the goalposts. And there are real issues that need to be solved today. The flexible language is important. It's very important. Now, I have several criticisms of this list on a line item basis. I voiced them to the administration for the last six months or longer. But we also have what I think is the best consensus proposal we're going to see. And Alderman, Council Member Kenyon had it right with his comment, this is the time to come together. This isn't the time to highlight our differences. I think we should vote tonight. But if we're not going to, then let's have the debate that we need to have out in the open. We can talk about aquatic centers. We can talk about... what other cities have done with the way they handled police expansions and how it compares to this proposal. We can talk about housing being included in this. We can talk about the value of an economic development fund that doesn't have anything tied to it. There are lots of things we can talk about. We can nitpick over the transportation list a little bit more. There's $70 million worth of it. There's at least $5 million worth of nitpicking left to be had if we want to take the time. But this is a good consensus proposal. I'm not happy with every part of it, but I'm ready to vote for it because I know what it means to govern when you don't have everybody that agrees. I don't know why we're assuming we wouldn't vote tonight. If we are going to delay, then we owe it to ourselves to have a work session, a committee of the whole, just like we do for the budget, which we pass once a year. We have a work session once a year, committee of the whole, even after we've had six months of input to create the budget itself. We still have the work session afterwards. If we're going to delay, we should give our next three aldermen the chance to have input because they've run campaigns on some of these very issues, and they deserve to have a voice if we're going to delay. But I think we've got a good consensus proposal. I think most of the people in the room think we have a good consensus proposal. And instead, we're focusing on... One tiny thing that we've already committed to in so many ways. I mean, how many weeks will it be before we see a contract in front of us to start moving on parking? This replacement parking study? What, two weeks? Two weeks. When will the bond vote be? So we're going to commit five digits or six digits of funding before the bond vote is even held to this very issue. And still we're trying to upend all of the consensus that we have over it. I think we should vote tonight. If we're going to delay, then let's delay for all the reasons, not just for the one reason. Okay, sir. Well, I feel like Matthew's brought up some, everybody's brought up some great points tonight. But But I feel like the end, we have to have something that we think is going to fly because we aren't exactly the final decision on this. And if people are coming back and complaining about parking and focusing on parking, and that's a big concern for people, then maybe we should listen to the people that are complaining and kind of weigh it out a little bit more than voting on it tonight. I know it seems, you know, in this big issue to take this one little thing seems kind of silly, but it does represent something that will stick in the minds of voters down the road if we don't listen to them. I think that's very important that we kind of take a look at what our public is telling us that they'd like for us to consider. We don't have to exactly... Go with everything that they want us to consider. As Matthew said, we're here to govern. We're here, we're elected to represent our wards and to represent the city. So that's a decision we have to make. I'm not in favor of voting on this tonight. I think it's, we've looked at this from a lot of different angles. I feel like I need to look at it a little bit more because we've had more public input. So that's my take on it. And as far as the parking goes, well, we've had a lot of conversation about that tonight as well. This is going to be an economic driver for our city, but the existing businesses are also an aspect of that economic driver that are there. So I think we do need to consider their opinions a little bit as well. Thank you. Okay. Mark. Okay. Well, I think that we have a lot of good discussion and we have a lot of transparency and we've been talking about this for a long time and it might not be popular, but I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Cobb? Second. I have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sonder, please call the roll. Move the move or second or please pick a motion. Kinnett? No. Butch? No. No. Smith? Yes. Sonder? No. Yes. Yes. That motion failed. Well, I guess we'll wait two weeks. Okay. I'd like to propose that we have a Saturday work session on this bond issue. It's $200 million. It's going to last more than a decade. We do the same for a $130 million budget every year. Well, it'll take us a while to work through it, but I guess we can do that. I would like to make a motion about it on the screen to do it. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, so I'd move that we hold a committee of the whole work session. Look at the calendar here. I really don't care which Saturday it is. I don't like any of them. This Saturday? The 8th. I'll have to look at my calendar. Well, let's see if it floats or not. Do we have a second? Sure. Okay. We have a motion and a second to have a Saturday session this Saturday. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There's a better Saturday. I did. Okay. You got one broke here. That's okay. Do we need to have a motion and vote on whether or not we're going to have a meeting? I don't know if we've ever, maybe we did, maybe we've done that before. Before. I mean, no, I don't mind. I'm just saying I don't remember. I mean, I'm comfortable with straw polls and everything just raise your hand. I mean, we've said enough laws up here without that. Well, I'd say that's an administration decision, Mayor. Do we want to have a meeting Saturday? We're calling one. I mean, does consensus people want to have a meeting? Is that what the majority wants? If that's the case, we'll set a meeting. Okay. We can have a meeting Saturday. But, I mean, we've spent... Yeah, I mean, from my perspective, I don't know exactly what you want. We've made presentations we have. I don't know what we're discussing, but anyway, I'm sure. I mean, I'll be more than happy to staff it. You can tell me what time you want. Yeah, I'll be there. I just want to change like one or two words. I don't know that it matters that we have a whole meeting about it. I would vote tonight, except that gentleman over there and that gentleman over there said that we needed more time to put it together. That's the only reason I don't want to vote for tonight. I'd be happy to vote for tonight if we could change the one small piece that I like the rest of it. So, I mean, I'd be more than happy to bring some bagels. Let me suggest that maybe... We discussed that at the agenda session and maybe if we have to we can have a meeting after the agenda session That gives us a little time maybe to do some drafting to get something for you to even look at I know you have other issues, but they could always be presented then I think that might be better than the Saturday meeting and also give us enough time to get something to you to look at So you're suggesting we have a dedicated session after the agenda session on this? Yes, if you wanted to do that you could you know We've had special meetings actually called regular special meetings after the agenda session when we had some issue we wanted to talk about So you could have a special meeting after the agenda session Yeah, I'm just saying if you have if you okay if we have we could have a meeting Saturday I mean if everybody how long are we going to talk if it's a situation that we're going to have a half-hour discussion or an hour discussion we might as well do that after the agenda session and and open it up to the public would most people be able to be there at the agenda session mark are you going to be in town Well, we don't want to delay too long. There was originally an emergency clause on this, and I said, no, the council will decide in plenty of time. We don't need to have an emergency clause on it. Okay. Well, let me suggest that what I'd like to do is at the end of the next agenda session, I'm going to put it on for a discussion, just like we would have a presentation, and we'll go from there. If we have a lot to discuss, fine. If we don't, we'll wind it up. Because I don't think there is, us as staff, I do not believe, has a lot to present. We've already presented what we have. You want to discuss it amongst yourselves, we can do it at that point in time. So I'm going to put that on the next agenda session that we'll have time for to bond discussion. And there's really just, well, I think, Matthew, you want to discuss some other topics this time, correct? I think if we're going to take time, I think this is the best consensus proposal that we've had so far, but we also haven't had a chance to advocate to one another. We've relied on staff as intermediaries to advocate to one another on our behalf, and we've all had diverse sets of input. And I think if we're going to take time, then we owe it to one another, and we owe it to the public to advocate to one another for what we'd like to see in it. Okay. Well, then that concludes our business. I suppose we'll have a meeting after the agenda session. Okay. All right. What announcements do we have? Mayor, a couple of announcements tonight. First, Fayetteville Animal Services is hosting their holiday open house and Santa and discounted adoptions. It's on December the 8th from 10 to 4 p.m. We also have the design cultural event. Arts corridor design drafts reveal and public input meeting again That's Thursday December the 6th 530 to 730 at the town center the senior giving tree Will be on Thursday December the 13th from 1030 to 1 30 p.m. If the council wants to come to the event I'll let you look at the website for the rest of it. Okay. Is there anything else? Well, thank you all. We're adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.