i would like to call the city council meeting of december 19 2017 to order sondra would you please call the role here I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight under reports is the nominating committee report. Mark, I believe you have that. I do. Once again, we had an incredible number of applicants. Our applicants offered a great deal of skill that we had to consider, and we interviewed 26 applicants out of all of the candidates applications that were submitted. I want to encourage anyone that was not appointed to a committee on the slate this evening to please reapply. We always look at a broad sector of individuals to be sure that we have broad representation. And if you didn't get selected this time, next time might be the ideal slot for you in any committee that you're interested in. The Nominating Committee met on December 7, 2017. The members present were myself, Sarah Marsh, Sarah Bunch, and Kyle Smith, and we present the following slate for confirmation this evening. Mayor Jordan recommends the following candidate for appointment to the Historic District Commission, Alexandria Lee, one unexpired citizen at large term, ending 6-30-18. The Nominating Committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Active Transportation Advisory Committee Paxton Roberts, one bicycle advocate term, ending 12-31-19. For the Airport Board, Michael Zane Chennault, one member at large term, ending 12-31-22. For the Audit Committee, David L. Mosley, one CPA term, ending 12-31-20. For the Civil Rights Commission, John Pesek, one owner-manager of rent property, term ending 12-31-20, and Danielle Williams, one human resources employment law firm, ending 12-31-20. for the Energy Improvement District number one, Edward Weintraub, one unexpired citizen at large term ending 12-31-19, James Bell, one citizen at large term ending 12-31-19, and Matt Pope, one citizen at large term ending 12-31-19. For the Environmental Action Committee, Andrew Miles, one Community Citizen at Large term ending 12-31-20, and Skylar Schwarting, one Community Citizen at Large term ending 12-31-20. For the Fayetteville Arts Council, Sarah Barnett, one unexpired working artist term ending 6-30-19. For the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee, Richie Lamb, one citizen at large term ending 1231.20. Jennifer Neal, one citizen at large term ending 1231.20. And Joel Freund, one citizen at large term ending 1231.20. For the Telecommunications Board, Sean Kinney, one unexpired citizen at large term ending 630.18. We have a vacancy on the Town & Gown Advisory Committee, an expired University of Arkansas student living off campus term ending 9-30-19. This is an appointment by the mayor, and if someone is interested, you might want to contact the mayor so next quarter we can get this filled. For the Urban Forestry Advisory Board, Preston Thibodeau, one land development term ending 12-31-19. Damon Lipinski, one university representative, term ending 12-31-19. And we do have a vacancy for one community citizen at large, term ending 12-31-19. If someone is interested, be sure to get your application in for the next quarter consideration. submit this slate on behalf of the nominating committee to be approved by City Council I'm gonna tell you motion is second to accept nominating committee's recommendation for city boards and commissions sir I move we accept the nominations as read Adele I second that motion sorry we got it all right so under which police call the roll Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Next order of business is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the December 5th, 2017 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $48,478, representing donation revenue to animal services from January through November of 2017. Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in a total amount of $1,006, representing donations to Ranger's Pantry in the amount of $481 and Senior Giving Tree in the amount of $525. Number four, A resolution to authorize the application for Arkansas Department of Aeronautics grant funds in the amount of $117,000 and to approve task order number 10 with Garver LLC in the amount of $19,000 for bid package development bidding services and construction phase services for an airfield pavement marking rehabilitation project at Drake Field. Number five, a resolution to approve supplemental agreement number two to the contract with Garver LLC in the amount not to exceed $307,167 for construction management services, additional archaeological testing and mitigation services, and additional design services associated with the design and construction of a portion of Rupel Road between West Starry Night View and West... Mount Comfort Road and to approve a budget adjustment number six resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $170,000 provide funds for engineering and construction Costs associated with the removal and replacement of the town center entry stairs and landing Sarah move we accept the consent agenda is read we have a second. I uh mark i mean we second i'll second that we have a motion in the second to accept the consent agenda is read all right saunter would you please call the road yes yes yes yes right yes march yes yes eddie yes okay thank you all under unfaced business Number one, an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and approve contract between the City of Federal Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $98,887 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of February 2018. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Adele? I move we go to the second reading. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Bennett? Yes. Dutch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. An ordinance to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $98,887 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2018. Okay. Connie? Connie Edmundson, Parks and Recreation Director. This is an annual contract that would start up January 1 and go until the end of the year. This is a contract that we have had for the last 45 years. We would like to have it with the Area Agency on Aging to provide recreational programs for our senior citizens and also to utilize the Walker Park Senior Adult Center as an emergency shelter if the city should need to do so. Since our December 5th City Council meeting, we added number 12 to the contract, which states that the Parks and Recreation Director or designee will participate in the interviews of the Senior Adult Center Director. I've already did that last week, so I'm here to answer any questions that you might like to address for me. What questions do we have for Connie? Anybody have anything? I'm sorry. Okay. Well, we'll take some public comment on this and the way I would, we are going to do this, everybody gets five minutes at the microphone, everybody gets one turn at the mic, keep your remarks addressed to me, don't engage anybody in the, from the city council or in the audience, and you can receive more time. The council member makes a motion, they get a second, and it's passed by the majority of the council to give you more time. So give us your name and address, please. I'm Aubrey Shepherd, 77 year old user of the Senior Center and I think I just heard that Connie had already done some interviewing for the city and I was surprised it happened so fast but I thought it was something that had been approved last time to be done. We had a great director, as I said in the previous meeting. I'd like to see that director back on board in that position. And I hope that if she's not, it'll be a really good local person that appreciates old folk and that will consider the happiness of everybody who uses the center. and see that everything continues to work as well as it has the last few years because it's had a pretty good staff in every way. And so that's all I can say. Thank you. Thank you, Aubrey. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring back to the council. Who'd like to be first? Mark do we need a motion to go to the third and final reading of where we do I move that we go to the suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading Sarah second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes in order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $98,887 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2018. Okay, what final comments do we have, Mark? Okay, Sarah? I would just like to say thank you to the staff at the Area Agency on Aging for addressing all of the requests and concerns I had. Thank you very much. Okay. I guess with that I move that we approve the legislation. Well, we're already there. Any other final comments from the Council? No, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. am i good all right sandra would you please call the rob pinnock yes yes yes yes yes gray yes march yes kenyan yes eddie yes okay the next order business we have tonight is a public hearing which i will now open and it is basically a resolution certifying to the tax collector of washington county arkansas the cost of raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe structure Upon the property owned by Harold and Rosetta Harmon located at 265 West Nottamaker Drive in the City of Federal Arkansas. Thank you, Mayor, Council, David Carver, I'm the Code Compliance Administrator. Like you just said, this item is in follow-up for the raise and removal of the structure at 265 Nottamaker, which was passed on the meeting of June 20th of this year. The property owner did fail to comply with the order and the project was completed on September 12th, 2017. The costs associated with the raise and removal totaled $7,400. And Code Compliance is asking for approval to file an abatement lien with the county against the property for the full amount of the project. And I'll field any questions you might have. DAVID BURRAGE. Just for the record, we hired an independent contractor to do this, is that correct? Yes. OK. Thank you. OK. John. David, as you're aware, I'm always concerned that we're giving everybody a fair shake. I spoke with this owner. I didn't speak with his wife. And he looked to me like he was making attempts to meet the standards that we're setting for him. What became of all that? From my knowledge, he failed to acquire a building permit from our building safety division, I believe, granted and granted. Another grace period after the required 30 days from approval of the resolution I believe it got into probably close to 80 days after the resolution before We started work. So I believe building safety Tried to the best of their ability, but you can't force somebody to apply for a building permit and he failed to acquire one And I can tell you, John, this is the first time that I remember that we actually had to hire a contractor and demolish one of these houses. That's not what we like to do. There was efforts to, in fact, try to get him to fix up his property, but he did not come forward with an actual contractor that was going to do everything that was required to make this house safe, according to our building safety division. And because of that, they felt like a piecemeal, you know, fix a little bit here, fix a little bit there was simply not sufficient. And that's why the city eventually, after giving him almost three times as much time as he's really allowed under the statute, went ahead with the contractor and had the contractor remove the house. And it's never a happy time when this happens. We don't like to see that. But in this particular case, I don't think, as you well know from the evidence that we gave you there, there really wasn't anything else, I think, at that point that was reasonable for the city to do. So the house has already been raised? It's been raised and removed, and this is the bill for doing that. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Is... Yes, are you, we're going to open it up for public comment. Are you the property owner or? I'm the oldest daughter of the property owner. Would you, yes, go ahead. He has serious health issues. Can you pull the mic down a little bit? He has serious health issues right now and so I'm here in his place. I was just, my name is Paula Smith, okay. I was just informed about this otherwise maybe we could have resolved it simpler. To my understanding he was trying to bring the property up to your standards as a courtesy There is also the issue that I just want to put on the record is that this land is under federal land patent, so I don't believe that the city had jurisdiction to tear the house down, and I kind of think that should be resolved, whether they did or not, before this is passed. Excuse me, ma'am, did you say it was under the federal? Land patent. Land patent. and I have a copy of it if someone wants that. Like I said, I'm the oldest daughter. I'm trying to stand in his place. He's, you know, 80 years old. He doesn't... you know, but he's not willing to let go of some of the responsibilities right now even though he's unable to do all of it. So, you know, I'm just asking to either postpone this or be lenient in this until we see whether you really had jurisdiction. I would like to see this solved, you know, in an applicable and amiable way. okay i think that's all i have to say any other questions i don't have any questions okay thank you kip do you have any legal advice on this one way well i can i can tell you that before we raised and and removed this uh her father did and mother uh did in fact file suit uh against new mayor in the city of Fayetteville to try to say that we did not have the legal right to raise and remove the property. I responded for the city answering and filing a motion for summary judgment laying out the fact that his complaint should be dismissed with prejudice. No response was made to my motion by Mr. Harmon. And the judge then granted the city's motion and granted us summary judgment and dismissed his complaint with prejudice. If there had been another kind of defense other than the one he raised, then It must have been brought, has to be brought, in the cause of action when he initially sued us. You're supposed to raise all of your reasons why the city was wrong in passing the raise and removal ordinance or resolution to authorize raise and removal ordinance. So no matter how, you know, if he had a federal patent, it sounds like maybe that was the federal government issued a deed like they used to a long time ago. And if no one ever has sold it, which I find it hard to believe, then you have to pay for it. That's what I understand a federal patent to mean, that it is simply a way that you receive your property from the government. I don't think that gives any special privileges to it. You can operate your property. You can sell it. You can divide it. You can build on it. So I don't think that that provides any special protection. And if it did, then it must have been raised. It would have to have been raised in the time when Mr. Harmon sued us. And so the city has prevailed in that lawsuit. The judge found that we were correct, where there's no way that Mr. Harmon could prevail in that suit and granted us judgment. So now a request to be lenient is something else that's beyond the law, but I think the law is clear that what you did was correct. We followed the right statutes. We provided notice. In fact, if you remember, the city council was extremely lenient There were three meetings with a public hearing, and he asked them to be delayed, and the city council delayed them. But you then heard the report from Code Compliance and the building safety official about all the problems in that house. And I think that you certainly had sufficient grounds to pass the raise and removal, and the legality of that has already been challenged in court and found to be that it was legal. Okay. And are you one of the? Yeah, I'm one of the same thing, yes. OK. No, we did try to obtain a permit. They did not grant us the permit to fix the house up. We went ahead. I know personally, because I worked on that house for months. Would you please give me your name? My name's Daniel Harmon. We worked on that house. We sanded the floors, replaced the countertops, replaced the kitchen floor. We even replaced the rock siding on the outside. And we tried to get the actual permit from them. They did refuse that factor of it. But it's not even just that. That house around that area is full with homeless people, just ethically. That house was totally livable. We've got hundreds, if not thousands, of homeless people around here. And my dad has helped many of these people. And even some of the houses they're living in now, some of these people would be homeless if it wasn't for him helping them out. So ethically, it was unright for you guys to come in and tear that house down. That's all I got to say. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Who else would like to address us on this? OK. Yes, John. Mr. Harmon, I tend to agree with your analysis. I toured the house. It's not a house that I would have chosen to live in. It's below the standard that my family and I. But I agree. I agree. I agree. No. To a homeless person living under a bridge, that house was a step up, maybe two or three steps up. Okay? So I think it's... a little bit arrogant of us to say that this house is deplorable and we you know it's below the standard we think is acceptable but to some people who are living under bridges and are homeless this house was two or three steps up there was a roof over their head and you and I wouldn't live there but some people would and I think that's what he's getting at so I would in the future I would hope that we would see that perspective also before we raise a house Sure, it doesn't meet our standards. We have, you know, I can't say they're real high, but, you know, they're higher than, of course, that house met. But we probably put somebody under a bridge by tearing down that house. There was probably somebody living there. When we toured it, it looked like, you know, there was no toilet, there was just a hole in the floor. You and I wouldn't live that way, but some people do live that way. And living under a bridge, they don't even have that. You know? So just remember... What we're accustomed to is not what everybody else is accustomed to. 40% of the world's population tonight will go to bed without a roof over their head. That's a fact. I've had people from Africa tell me they literally knew men that would chop off their right arms to move to America and live on welfare. That's the difference in the standard of living. Thank you. Mayor, I should note that the reason code compliance went to the house in the first place was that the person that was living in there called them and said that it was unfit. And so when code compliance went there and verified that, then they started trying to work with Mr. Harmon to get it fixed so that it would be okay. Unfortunately, he was never willing to get a regular contractor to come down and agree that he was going to do all the repairs that our building safety official believed were necessary to make the house safe, not above average or anything like that, but safe to live in. And in Fayetteville, I think not having plumbing or not having a septic system that works is not acceptable. It's not because it's not only that person that suffers, but anybody around there that would suffer. So I think that we did everything that we were required to do. CLARENCE P. Close to the public comment. I'm sorry. DAVID BURRAGE. And I agree with you. I hate to see it knocked down. But in fact, I don't think we really had a choice. We, I think, went out as far as we could to have Mr. Harmon fix his house. And it just did not occur. Mayor, I do want to say just on behalf of the staff, The staff's job is to execute policy passed by the council. This council voted 7-1 to have the house removed within a certain time period. That time period was extended. The contract was executed. The taxpayers for the City of Fayetteville paid for that cost, and the item before you tonight is to reimburse the taxpayer by putting a lien on the property should it sell in the future for the cost it was to remove it. But the staff did not do something without the complete authorization of this council. All right. Any other comments from the council? So, what's the wishes of the council? Sarah? I move we approve the... It's a resolution. The resolution. Thank you. We approve the resolution. Do we have a second? Adele? I second that motion. All right. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Okay. So, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Moving to new business. Number one, a resolution to award bid number 17-67 to authorize contract across from heavy contractors incorporated in the amount of $5,774,726.35 for the construction of a portion of Rupert Road between West Starry Night View and West Mount Comfort Road to approve a project contingency in the amount of $418,104 and to approve a budget adjustment. Cricks. Yes. Yes, thank you, Mayor. This project is to realign the intersection of Ruppel Road and Mount Comfort Road to create a four-way intersection at that location. Realign the Ruppel Road from north of Starry Night up to Mount Comfort. Eliminates the substandard intersection that those of y'all who've driven through there can see very clearly what we have to deal with on a daily basis. This project, we did take bids for it. The bid amount of $5.57 million total by Crossland Heavy Contractors includes about $4.98 million of roadway improvements and about $595,000 in water and sewer improvements. We do have federal aid on this project. A total amount of federal aid for the project is about $5.77 million. That's all totaled for the entire project. And so the city's portion of the entire project is about $1.7 million. Okay. We also have to get Highway Department's Department of Transportation approval. We expect to get that in time to issue the notice to proceed by hopefully February or March. It's an 18-month contract, so we expect this – road to be open for business by fall of 2019. Obviously, this is a short project, but a very important part of the arterial loop, the mayor's box. And we are continuing to work on that. And this is an important piece of it. It's about five years in the making as a federal aid project. So we're definitely excited to see it moving forward. I'll answer any questions. What questions do we have for Chris on this? Okay, what public comment do we have? Hi, my name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Bradstreet. I'm sure you guys are tired of seeing me these last couple weeks. However, I just want to say Ward 4 has a lot of work that needs to be done in it. It needs more parks, it needs a more robust and diverse commercial district, but it also needs better transportation. I love that intersection that is currently on Ruffalo and Mount Comfort. It reminds me of Fayetteville from when I was a kid, a much smaller and simpler city. it's a rural county y intersection with a red barn and white church to boot it's kind of picturesque unfortunately that means it is also a product of a bygone era and is overwhelmed by traffic multiple times on a daily basis the traffic in ward 4 is a big problem because of sprawl a lack of connections over i-49 and the main arterials mostly travel east to west squaring off this intersection and modernizing it allows legitimate north to south travel and increases travel path options i'm not entirely convinced completing the manners box is necessary as transportation is poised to drastically change within a generation and there will be struggles and obstacles to overcome to complete that upper northwest corner where ruffle and howard nickel meet but this particular intersection needs to be fixed sooner rather than later thank you thank you who else would like to address this okay we'll bring it back to the council And so, Mark? I move we accept the resolution. Sarah? Second. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Mark? Trying to get it taken care of here. I want to thank staff's work on this. Chris, I appreciate your work on this and the Transportation Committee. And it's been a long time coming, but it's something that's very much needed in Ward 4. I remember in the way. Anyway, so... or the comments under which please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay number two there aren't suede requirements or formal competitive bidding and approved contract seven hills homeless center in the amount of a hundred and three thousand dollars services to homeless and needy residents in federal in 2018 kit Whereas the board of directors of Seven Hills has operated a daytime facility to serve numerous homeless and needy Fayetteville residents for over 15 years, relying upon the support of several local churches, charities, and charitable persons, as well as some governmental support for veterans, et cetera. And whereas the Seven Hills is currently suffering an operating income emergency and is in dire need of temporary assistance from the city of Fayetteville to be able to weather the and continue to offer vital services to Fables homeless residents during winter. And whereas if Seven Hills could no longer operate as Walker family residential community transitional housing, currently housed citizens might become homeless again and have to live on the streets or in woods during these harsh winter months. and whereas if seven hills could no longer operate as daytime facility large number of homeless residents who depend upon this facility for showers and washing hot food a warm place to stay during the day as well as access to a telephone and other job assistance services could not find such comparable services elsewhere and whereas the facility and services provided by seven hills needed need to be continued and should be temporarily supported by city taxpayers prevent our homeless and needy residents from suffering undue hardship and deprivation now therefore be it ordained by the city council the city of favela arkansas section one that the city council city of fayetteville arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the city of fayetteville arkansas and seven hills homeless center in the amount of one hundred and three thousand dollars for services to homeless and ed fable residents and authorizes mayor jordan to sign this contract CHRIS JERRAM, Good evening, Mayor and Council. As the council will recall, we discussed this issue during budget time. The Seven Hills has certainly made good strides in funding. However, they still have a shortfall, and they requested $103,000 in operating funds from the city. That was included in the budget. We discussed that at budget time. You approved an appropriation. This is following up with a contract. providing for monthly payments to Seven Hills, also provide some reporting requirements to them so we can monitor where exactly they are, and we're requesting the approval of this contract so we can begin making the monthly payments to Seven Hills to cover their operating shortfall. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have, Paul, on this? All right, what public comment do we have? Okay. i'll bring it back to the council sir maybe we suspend the rules and go to the second reading mark i second that we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading somebody would you please call the row yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes And ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $103,000 for services to homeless and needy residents in Fayetteville in 2018. Adele. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Aye. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. probably every year I'm in total support of us helping seven hills homeless shelter but I think I always like to say on the record this is not just a Fayetteville homeless shelter and when we talk to people there or we talk to people on the staff there are people there from all over the region that need help and I'm glad it's there and I'm glad it's in Fayetteville I'm glad that we're helping but I think the mayor and staff have done a good job over the years to try a more regional approach or to get other cities to help us I don't think that they've been able to get a tremendous amount of cooperation from other cities to do that. and i know it's hard to prove or for another city to take any responsibility that that they should help but you know i do think other cities should consider helping the homeless shelter here not just fayetteville although i'm in favor of us doing it but i do think that we have a situation there where a lot of communities have folks that are that are using that shelter not just fayetteville person who guards the the taxpayers of Fayetteville's dollars and cents I always like to say that every year just I'd love to see a more regional approach to homelessness and in this city and all cities. Thanks. We're certainly trying. All right any other comments? I would like to say we ran the numbers the other day on we took over a grant from Seven Hills one time if you remember that And the amounts of money is around $350,000 or so. I think that's a pretty close estimate of what we are spending on the homeless situation in this city, either directly or indirectly. That includes our program, the HUD program in Seven Hills now with this money. I agree with everything that Councilman Tent said. This is a regional issue, but I'm always proud of this city stepping up and working. helping people because I know in the studies that I've done on homelessness many most Americans in this country is about one paycheck away from being homeless and so that could be anybody at any time and I think for us to step up and help people is vitally important to this city and what this city stands for and I think that's all I have to say. Senator, would you please call the roll? In it. Yes. March. Yes. Woodshire. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Thank you all very much. All right, number three, an ordinance to approve Vacation 17-5995, a property located at 1100 West 15th Street to vacate a portion of street right-of-way kit whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14 dash 54 dash 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and rest the City Council has determined that about point two eight of an acre of the following scribe Street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one that the city council the city of favela actually hereby vacates about 0.28 of an acre of street right-of-way as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk 3 this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities shall be at the owner developer's expense okay andrew So this property is the Pinnacle Foods property on 15th Street and there's a large undeveloped easement that's shown in the drawing here that the applicant requests to vacate pending a future development and expansion of Pinnacle Foods. This went through the Planning Commission on November 27th with the unanimous recommendation for approval. It's a, I feel like a pretty straightforward request. There's no utilities in the easement area. There was no objections by any of the utility companies. Again, just for background, this is identified as an industrial area on the future land use plan map and this would be needed to vacate this area to expand their industrial uses. We're recommending approval as requested. I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. What questions do we have for Andrea on this? No good? All right. What public comment do we have on this? Good evening. My name is Scott Collins. I live at 1630 South Brooks, which is just south of Pinnacle Foods. Back on the 27th when I went through the Planning Commission, I presented a nice little 25-page presentation to the Planning Commission. To be real specific, I am not against the development of Pinnacle Foods, which isn't pending. They have started. Mr. Collins, stay with me. Yeah, they have started the development, so that development is underway at Pinnacle Foods. My presentation presented that there were three serious health and safety issues with the development. The Planning Commission recommended approving it. As it turns out, I believe that the Planning Commission was not, one of the criteria for approving it was not determining whether there were health and safety concerns for the public. The three health and safety concerns for the public are the poor intersection at the corner of South Brooks Avenue and 15th Street, uh south brooks avenue floods because the houses on south brooks avenue flood because the drainage has been disrupted the development at pinnacles will increase the flooding and also the area is serviced by a six inch sewer line which the city has already installed pop-up backflow preventers on and thus are allowing sewage to run into the people's house yards and into town branch creek so my request of planning commission at that time and my request of you at this time is to not act on this vacation until an assessment an engineering assessment can be done of the three safety concerns thank you very much thank you thank yes mr. Collins I believe there's a question for you hi mr. Collins um you mentioned that there were three health and safety concerns and so I have downed at the poor intersection with at Brooks which I agree with you that's a very dangerous intersection and then this six inch sewer line that's creating backflow issues into the creek what is the third issue the flooding in my presentation that I presented I provided a photograph of the flooding Okay Yeah of the street and that is that was during a moderately heavy rain that was not during a flood so Thank you and this has been read into the Planning Commission so All right John I think you have a question I have a question Mr. Connell You mentioned that people are getting raw sewage backed up into their homes Or yards? Excuse me. Yeah. The city installed pop-up backflow preventers on the six-inch sewer line, which are in the stormwater ditch to prevent backflow into the homes. So instead of flowing into the homes now, apparently at some time they had this problem in history. And so the city installed the pop-ups so that the sewage would come out into the stormwater ditch instead of into the homes. We wouldn't do that, I don't think. The city senator people told me they installed them to prevent... the sewage from going into the homes. DAVID BURRAGE- That would be correct, but we wouldn't put it down a storm drain. CHRIS RODGERS- There are two of them in the storm drain. In July, the city came out and repaired one because it had popped off and was allowing sewage to just run into the city. DAVID BURRAGE- Well, I will look into that, but that's against code. CHRIS RODGERS- Thank you. Oh, one other thing I pointed out in this, I'm sorry, Mayor Jordan, one other thing is that when the city came out in July and repaired the one that had popped off in the storm drain, they did no sampling and they did no reporting to determine if anything had come out of the sewer. Okay. But I can assure you, Mr. Collins, you're not supposed to put sewage down storm drain. That's against code. I understand. And if that, I'll look into it. Thank you. Mayor, I think this argument has been made before, and when I heard it, I spoke with our water and wastewater department director. And I think he's mistaken about that because, as you say, we do not put sewage down the creeks or storm drains. That just would never be a way that we would try to get rid of it. The EPA would not like it. ADQ wouldn't like it. We wouldn't like it. So I think that there's some misunderstanding there. It's too bad that he's not here tonight so he can better explain it. I'm just kind of giving you the hearsay of what I – my conversation with him but I agree with you mayor this that would not be up to code and that would not be something with we would be doing looking at the map I live on South Duncan Avenue I like to sit on here and we fought for the Omni Center for peace justice ecology Several other sources of revenue came in, including one major part of it from the city buying that was approved at that time to have World Peace Wetland Prairie, as it was named. And one of the purposes of having that kind of land is it absorbs water. It reduces flooding. And that's something that I wish we could protect all over the city because the flooding will just get worse, it appears, gets more frequent. And Pinnacle Prairie is a spectacular native plant area. And I've got maybe 100,000 pictures from Pinnacle Prairie over the years, and we went to the with Lionel and members of the Environmental Action Committee a few years ago and honored Pinnacle Foods for protecting that land. So my concern with this activity there is that it be designed so that the water will soak in all across that can we see the map of here for a second well i thought they were going to work with you on that okay they are yes they called me and i i went out there to talk to them okay but i'm just saying let's want to be sure that we got that right because i told them not specifically not a problem the only only problem might be the work starts that they are doing at dawn and it lasts until 9 p.m. every night and it shakes my house. Well, we'll... We can't do anything about it. Well, we can do something about it. It's the kind of work they're doing. No, we can't. I'm not concerned about that. I just enjoy it in a way. But the point is... Think about that. Anyway, the... You see the area that was green up there will actually remain... absorbent soil and I'm just hoping that when we get to talk with them about that particular activity that With the Planning Commission and so forth that they do Get the water where it can Soak in most of that wetland out there in the green does soak water quite wet It doesn't stay on the surface long just very small parts. It stays after a big rain so it's a wonderful thing in the middle of the city didn't cost the city any money to have it be there it just was there and pinnacles needs to expand i you know i know that so but on the two items that are up for concern tonight uh that subject easement It's never been used so there should be no reason not to allow that easement to come up. Okay. On the second part, so I don't have to come back up here, the easement from the end of the, see the trail? That's the 12th Street and then the trail runs back up there to the student apartments. That would be extended. You've got about 30 seconds here. Well, that's already, they're already putting, 40 feet tall red dirt out there on that area. So they really didn't get a lot done in a hurry because of the weather and the time of year it is. And they did miss one day, and that was yesterday or Sunday. Whenever it rained, it cost them one day's work. I believe it might have been Sunday this week, but they worked seven days a week as hard as they can trying to get that done. So, but it's no problem. Aubrey, time. My time's up. Your time's up. Okay, well I won't come back. Oh, I'm not saying you can't come back. Sorry to use up that much time, but it's critical that we use absorbent soil all over the city instead of putting in pipe, which costs a lot of money, and they only hold so much, how big they are. Thank you. Thank you, Aubrey. This is the first reading, and I would like to have this held so we can have further discussion and talk about engineering and how we're dealing with this, because we... we do recognize that this is a delicate area for flooding and we're looking at storm water management and i would like for a good discussion to be brought to the water sewer solid waste committee in january so we would have an understanding of the engineering associated with this before we go to the final vote on this easement the property itself is not that much but the adjacent property next to this i mean we're just moving on down the stream and everything moves downstream and so from from a real practical point of view we want to see what the total impact is and uh we will discuss this more in water sewer solid waste in january okay i know that i did speak with who was in the meeting with the applicants at the time is that any of you andrew or was that that's you david yeah mayor devin was in the meeting i do want to remind the council this is a 30 million dollar expansion for pinnacle foods and job retention and expansion in the city of fayetteville that we competed against a location in another state and won for this expansion so that we didn't lose all of the jobs going to another state so i think the staff is very aware concerns that drainage things our codes are set so that post development should not impact land more than it did pre development and the approval plans when they come through for the actual building there is grading work which is what is taking place today but I just want you to keep in mind that you are looking at development decisions that are needed for this expansion for a 30 million dollar expansion and a job retention and expansion of one of Fayetteville's legacy employers. And during the conversation I had with the folks that was applying, was that we wanted to be sure that that remained environmentally sensitive. It was an environmentally sensitive area, and I don't know if Devin would think it was Devin. And that I certainly wanted them to contact Aubrey because he was familiar with the area, which they said they would and would work with him to be sure that everything was safe. you know like it should be on the wetlands devon is that about right you want to come up i might add that they've been very accommodating to most of our environmental discussions for instance tree canopy, the plan talked about taking about eight to ten pine trees out for road relocation further from the railroad that would allow a new access in and in return are planting 55 maple and hardwood type trees. So I think they're being a good steward of our development codes and we will certainly continue to watch them. But you often hold it on first-row. Devin, do you have anything? One of the points with the drainage that is such an important point with this site, specifically to the neighborhood to the east of the property, north of 15th, And that was another area that Pinnacle has expressed to us that they're taking deep care to make it better than they found it. I can't speak to the south of the street, but this will go on inter-large scale very soon. I believe the first of the year. They haven't formally announced this expansion yet, but the environmental aspects as well as the drainage, this is extremely important to them. Okay. Mr. Mayor, I should point out to the council this really is not developmental approval here. The issue before the council is whether this about quarter acre of unused street right away has any corporate purpose left or should it just be vacated. This won't approve the development. This is just a step. It is an ordinance, so it takes 31 days after you pass it. And so I would suggest that development issues be postponed until that comes either before you or the Planning Commission. This is merely a vacation of an unused street right-of-way. So that would be my recommendation. there oh i'm sorry john yes mark you're still on there hang on john you're still on there the concern is not and i do want that i was going to bring kit's point up too is not so much the developmental aspect as we look at the property and water sewer and solid waste so that we have a total understanding and open transparency that we've considered the impact on the stormwater management. And my question to administration is, is there an urgency to go ahead and get the vacation? And if there's an urgency, then that should be, that could be considered too, but we'll be meeting the second week in January. That's only three weeks away. And that way we can have further discussion and then, uh, we'll I just think that we need open discussion on this. It's not in any way trying to impair the development of one of our legacy industries that I have great respect for. OK. DAVID BURRAGE. Is there an urgency? I really don't know if it's time sensitive or not. DAVID BURRAGE. Well, I think if you look at the map of where the subject easement, the street easement is, that they're asking to have removed, it runs into their project. And I think they might be concerned about grading and doing other activities over a street right of way until it has been at least approved for vacation by the city council. i don't know i can't speak for them i don't know if they have representatives here nobody's here okay okay well if y'all want to hold it on the first three john you have something thank you mayor uh somebody's making a 30 million dollar investment now council member kenyon you're a banker you know this timing is always of the essence we we need to show call me out please well i won't call you out i'll speak generally Timing is always of the essence. And we need to show these people that we have a commitment to them. And by delaying it three weeks, and you know, suppose we don't pass it out of water and sewer. Then it might be another three, four weeks. I mean, we need to show them that we're committed to them. They're making a $30 million investment in us. They're keeping jobs in Fayetteville. And I bet they're living wages they're paying. Uh, so-called. I mean, we need to act quickly to show them. And we're not talking about development issues here. This is just vacating. We're deciding if this piece of land has no corporate purposes. That should be the limit of our discussion. All of these drainage issues and wetlands and all this can come out in the development stage of this project. We could pass this tonight and just show them we're committed to them. So I would urge us to move with appropriate haste. I don't think we're giving up anything. But we are showing them that we're committed to them. So I would not want to hold it. I'd want to move ahead with it. OK. Adele. Mayor, I agree completely. And I would like to see us move on as a matter of encouragement to Pinnacle Foods, and especially since it is a very simple matter and has nothing to do with the big development. Thank you. OK. Sarah. Thank you. The matter at hand of vacating the utility easement, I don't think that that is going to exacerbate the very legitimate concerns that the citizens have raised. But I do think that whether or not we hold this on the first reading or we pass it tonight, we do have some work to do in the Water Sewer Committee in particular. And I would like our... Um, us to take a look at the poor intersection at Brooks Avenue and 15th. That is a really dangerous spot right there. And the construction vehicles entering and leaving the site, um, are creating, uh, additional hazards there. So we need some review on how we can make that intersection safer. And we all know that South Brooks floods. So, but as far as this situation, I don't think that approving this right-of-way vacation is going to exacerbate the problem. But I am a little concerned that they're doing so much site work and they haven't gotten this far into the approval process with the city. I would concede to that point. I just want to be sure that we have an open discussion as we move forward, and that is the only thing, if you listen to my point, that was of concern as we move forward. So that was the point I was making. Thank you. That's the way I perceived it as well. Thank you. Because I felt as though this vacation is not really the issue, but later on when you get more into development, I can understand how you want to be sure that the drainage and the wetlands and everything are going to remain as they are. So... i do want to reiterate um i think you're all making great points and a lot of these items will be addressed during the development submittal process the work that's being done is being done through an approved rating permit that went through engineering review and approval for the work that you see happening today and and part of this obviously is to be able to have the things necessary for the development submittal which is planned for as early in January as I believe they can get it completed so that you can have the discussion on these other topics that relate more to the actual building. And I will tell you in meeting with them they've been very reasonable and very easy to work with and when we talk about sensitive environmental issues they can listen to it and address our concerns. Okay Matthew. Yes thank you Mayor I move we go to the second reading. John. second that motion yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes no you don't i mean she was testing you there yeah i was on a roll an ordinance to approve vac 17-5995 for property located at 1100 west 15th street to vacate a portion of a street right of way okay adele i'm going to be suspended rules and go to the third and final reading John? I'll second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? With the mover and... Okay. Okay. Adela was... That's right. He was a mover. That's right. That'll work. I think John was the seconder, right? I was the seconder. But you can be the firster if you want to. Let me get him back in there. You want me to second it? Yes. Why don't you do that? John seconds it. Now we're gone again. Can you do it one more time? Sure. Yeah, one more time. Yay. Okay. There you go. All right, everything looks wonderful. I'm touching that. All right. Okay. Tenant? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Cloutier? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kingin? Yes. Eddy? Yes. And ordinance approved, DAC 17-5995, property located at 1100 West 15th Street, to vacate a portion of a street right of way. Okay. Is there any final comments from the council on this? All right. Thank you all. Sandra, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay number four an ordinance to approve vacation 17 that's 59 94 property located at 1100 west 15th street to vacate a portion of a utility easement Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance do be certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as you give it a to the planning department's memo Shall be filed in the office of Washington County Circuit clerk in section 3 This vacation approval is subject to condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities Shall be at the owner developers expense Sir The previous item, the previous exhibit we had up was showing the utility easement. That was the long, narrow sliver. This exhibit is showing the right-of-way. So there's two items on the same property, essentially the same thing. There's existing rights-of-way and easements that are not needed for public purpose that they're requesting to vacate. And I would like to provide a little bit of background on some of the comments I heard from Mr. Collins, just for the council and for the mayor. Staff did meet with Mr. Collins, spent quite a bit of time talking through a lot of his concerns. The water and sewer director directly addressed his concern and the claim about, There's some unsafe or some unsanitary or illegal activities with sewage being dumped into the creek and the water and sewer director was copied on an email and said that is not the case, everything is legal out there. I don't know the technical, He explained it in his email, but I wanted to get that on the record as well. We have looked at those issues and we're recommending approval of this item as well. Just as additional background for the council, Mr. Collins' neighborhood across the street, we have met with some of the neighbors and the council will likely be seeing a neighborhood petition, a down zone over their neighborhood in the next couple of months. There's development pressure in the area and a lot of single family homes that are being impacted. development so those are some conversations that have been happening they're not directly related to this request but they have been ongoing and kind of spurred some of the conversations with the neighbors is there any questions for Andrew on this? any public comment do we have on this? and then I'll bring it back to the council Adele? I move that we go to the second reading John? second that motion yes yes yes yes yes and your niche approved the AC 17-59 94 property located at 1100 West 15th Street to vacate a portion of a utility easement Yeah, I mean we suspend the rules and all the third and final reading Justin second We have motion to second to go to the third and final reading. So under would you please go? Yes, yes, yes Yes Yes, and your niche approved the AC 17-59 94 property located at 1100 West 15th Street to vacate a portion of the utility easement. I Any final comments from the council on this? Just, sorry. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Kennett? Yes. French? Yes. LeChir? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number five. a resolution to amend the master street plan by downgrading 15th street west of razorback road decatur drive all the way to shallow drive from principal arterial to collector status andrew yes sir this is a large undeveloped piece of property that is south and west of hollywood the proposal is to Amend the master street plan, you can see here on the diagram this black box, the red arterial street through here is proposed to be downgraded to a collector street from an arterial. And this is brought forward by the property owner that is looking at developing the property and looking at their site plans and development proposal. With this engineering staff and planning staff, we feel like it's appropriate to downgrade this new street section from an arterial to a collector. We feel like a two-lane street is appropriate through this area. We have other arterial connections. We feel like, again, at this time a four-lane section is not needed or in the future, and the Planning Commission did recommend in favor of the request. to downgrade it from an arterial to a collector. Thanks. I live down in that area, and I don't see a four-lane going through there either. That's just me. Not that I live down in that area, but I don't see it necessarily. Do we have any questions for Andrew from the council? All right. Do we have any public comment on it? All right. See none. Bring it back to the council. Okay. Here we are. All right. Sarah? I move that we approve the resolution. Adela? I second that motion. There's a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Oh, sorry, is there any public comment on this? I mean, any final comments from the council? Is that good? All right, Sandra, now, please. Bennett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. LeTour? Yes. Smith? Yes. Wright? Yes. Thank you all. And now number six, a resolution to accept and adopt an energy action plan for the city of Federal. Peter. Mayor, council, good evening. Bear with me one moment while I hold the presentation up. We're handing out a, passing around a presentation. two pager on the energy action plan for you all to take a look at. Sandra, can we get this computer up? You're all down for some reason. Well, while we're waiting on that, Mayor and Council, I'm very excited to recommend a resolution adopting Fayetteville's first energy action plan. I want to walk you through some of the details of the plan and a presentation. I hope they'll show up here in just a minute. For this presentation I'm going to be showing you several slides that are actual pages from the plan. So several of the pages do have quite a few words on them so if you're not able to read all the words don't worry about it. The pages that you're looking at are actual pages in the plan that are actually in your agenda packet. So, before I get started, I did just want to take a few minutes to offer a few thank yous, in particular to the sustainability department staff, Rachel Schaffner and Leif Olson, who worked very hard on this plan over the last 11 months, along with some of our interns in our office. In addition, we had several stakeholders that helped us work through this plan, city staff in various divisions and departments. community members, citizens, technical advisors, and industry representatives that all helped provide input on this plan and very much appreciative of their input and help with this particular project. A reminder on the schedule related to this plan, back in February, on the 2nd of February, City Council passed a resolution requesting the development of an energy action plan. Since that time, staff began working, doing peer city research, looking at other communities' plans, completing a greenhouse gas inventory. and drafted a draft plan that was actually brought back to you all in October at presentation at agenda session. In September and October, that draft plan was also presented to the public for public input at several public input sessions. We also had a community survey soliciting input and feedback on that plan. That input and feedback was incorporated into the final draft that you do have before you this evening. I wanted to spend just a few moments before diving into the details of the plan talking about the ambitious goals and greenhouse gas emission reduction strategies that are in the plan. I wanted to spend a few moments talking about the specific goals in the plan and how those relate to a purpose statement of our plan. So a couple of the purpose items that are highlighted here, maintaining clean air and water and soil and building a city where every citizen in the present and future can experience the naturally beautiful, healthy and sustainable environment that we have here in Fayetteville. We want to create jobs and build capacity in new sectors while enabling local businesses to be more resourceful, efficient and profitable in global competitive markets. We want to create more energy efficient homes and businesses, giving our citizens and business owners disposable income and financial security and flexibility. We want to address public health threats from pollution, food insecurity, natural disasters, changing weather patterns, and particularly we want to focus these efforts on our most vulnerable and low-income citizens in Fayetteville. We want to lead the South in energy independence and innovation and energy security. We want to develop a culture of innovation in Fayetteville that's compounded, and we want to minimize waste in Fayetteville. We want to lead the conversation around climate change and determine how to effectively address current and future effects that climate change may have on northwest Arkansas and work with stakeholders in our region on addressing those impacts and effects. Then we want to build a legacy of stewardship to future generations, demonstrating financial and social feasibility of a clean energy future. As I mentioned, the primary purpose of this plan is to address climate change impacts and to document Fayetteville's strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emission reduction. This is particularly important in today's day and age given the current lack of federal leadership on this topic. and federal action on climate change. But before diving into the plan, I did want to spend just a few moments refreshing folks on climate change and the basic science behind climate change. If you all will remember from your science classes back in school, the atmosphere of the planet Earth is actually composed of two primary gases. Nitrogen is the most common gas. element in our atmosphere and oxygen is the second most element in our atmosphere. There's many other secondary gases in our atmosphere in small quantities and greenhouse gases are included in those gases in small quantities. Our atmosphere allows solar radiation from the sun to pass through it to hit the earth That solar radiation generates heat, thereby creating the warmth that we enjoy on a day-to-day basis. The greenhouse gases that are in our atmosphere act as sort of an insulating blanket and help retain some of that heat, creating a temperate climate that we enjoy on Earth and is necessary for sustaining life. But unfortunately, when the concentration of those greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide, get to be too great, too much of that heat is retained, somewhat like a greenhouse on a hot, sunny day. The concentration of greenhouse gases, the primary greenhouse gas we are concerned with is carbon dioxide. And carbon dioxide concentrations in our atmosphere have been steadily rising since the Industrial Revolution in the 1760s. Prior to the Industrial Revolution, concentrations of greenhouse gases varied over the past 650,000 years between 180 parts per million and approximately 300 parts per million. the concentration of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere first surpassed the 300 parts per million level. And in 2013, that level reached 400 parts per million. Carbon dioxide emissions are primarily the result of the combustion of fossil fuels, natural gas, coal, and oil. The combustion of those fossil fuels is primarily the purpose of industrialization and human-related activities. Focusing in on the last 125, 130 years, you can see an increase in temperature that corresponds with greenhouse, with carbon dioxide concentrations in our atmosphere. In 2016, global temperatures were 1.78 degrees warmer than the mid-20th century mean. 2016 was also the third year in a row that the global average temperature broke a new record. So temperatures have been on the increase as global carbon dioxide concentrations have increased. More local to here in Arkansas, I wanted to share with you just a few moments what the United States Department of Agriculture has studied and found related to our warming climate here. These two maps are plant hardiness zone maps, which tell the average minimum temperatures in a region. These are necessary and help determine what plants can grow and thrive. Farmers rely on these maps to help guide what plants to plant and when to plant those plants. In 2012, the USDA published their newest hardiness map for the United States, and that map showed that those winter hardiness zones had moved northward 175 miles in only the past 22 years, showing a substantial shift in what crops are viable in Arkansas. The Arkansas Game and Fish Commission has also looked at climate change in Arkansas. In a 2015 study, the Game and Fish Commission noted that current and future impacts of climate change would increase average yearly temperatures, particularly here in northwest Arkansas. It would cause more frequent heat waves. We would experience public health problems, including insect-borne diseases and health-related illnesses. We would experience intense rainfall causing soil erosion, and we would experience drought and flooding, particularly in eastern farmlands. Moving beyond this refresher on climate change and focusing back on the Energy Action Plan, There are four primary goal areas in the Energy Action Plan. Transportation, so reducing fossil fuel consumption and transportation activities. Energy supply and delivery, transitioning and attempting to transition to clean renewable energy. Buildings, we want to improve energy efficiency and occupant comfort and health in our buildings in Fayetteville. Waste reduction, we want to reduce landfill emissions through reuse, recycling, and composting. There's a fifth cross-sector goal area that also covers some multi-sector areas. Emissions in Fayetteville are measured in five primary areas, electricity, vehicles, natural gas, landfills, and wastewater. These sectors were selected to align with the ICLEI protocol for local government emissions calculations. As I mentioned, part of the initial work in this plan was to conduct a community-wide greenhouse gas inventory. This slide illustrates what that inventory looks like for the past seven years in Fayetteville. You can see the emissions quantities in each of the five sectors that I mentioned previously. Total emissions for Fayetteville have increased ever so slightly over the past seven years. But one promising thing to note on this particular slide is the yellow line with the downward trajectory which represents the per capita greenhouse gas emissions in Fayetteville. So as our city has grown and we've added people, our emissions have increased only slightly but our per capita emissions are headed downward, which is generally a good sign. Our community-wide greenhouse gas emission goal, overarching goal for this plan, is an 80% greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2050. This goal corresponds and aligns with the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement. This goal is also mirrored by several of our peer cities, including Lawrence, Kansas, Fort Collins, Colorado, Asheville, North Carolina, Columbia, Missouri, Nashville, Tennessee, and Atlanta, Georgia, which have all adopted the 80% greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. This slide attempts to articulate and show what that 80 percent greenhouse gas emission would look like in each of the five sectors. You can see the white line headed downward represents the reduction in emissions in the five sector categories between now and 2050, with an 82 percent greenhouse gas emission reduction in combined electricity, gas, and wastewater, 59 percent reduction in vehicles, and 47 percent reduction in energy. and landfill emissions. The yellow dashed line heading upward is a status quo scenario, so without adoption of the Energy Action Plan, that is what emissions would look like for the City of Fayetteville between now and 2050. Moving on to Chapter 3, this is where we begin to get into some of the details of the goals, strategies and actions in the plan. There are, as I mentioned, five goal areas in cross-sectors, buildings, energy supply, transportation and waste. And you can see the associated goals that are under each of those sectors in this particular slide. The way the plan is laid out is you have the 80% greenhouse gas emission reduction strategy at the highest level and we have our five sectors underneath that that represent our sector level goals and again cross-sector areas buildings energy supply transportation and waste then there's 26 strategies under those goals and there's over 100 action items that feed into those strategies and help to achieve the incremental greenhouse gas emission reductions and Here's an example slide from the transportation section that shows the strategies that feed up to the transportation goals. The strategies are increasing the percent of fuel efficient and alternative fuel vehicles in Fayetteville, supporting the expansion of alternative and active transportation options for Fayetteville citizens, so transit, biking, and walking, and then encouraging compact, complete, connected land development and street infrastructure in line with city plan 2030. Here's an example from the energy supply section that lists out eight action items that feed into an energy strategy on advocating to increase local renewable energy installations. This format is mirrored throughout the plan in terms of identifying the 100 plus goals that are listed in the plan. Chapter 4 focuses on what local government operations can do to lead by example. The City of Fayetteville believes that communitywide actions and strategies explored in the previous sections of the plan will be most effective if the city leads by example. So similar to the citywide goals, the local government operational goals are an 80 percent greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2050. achieving 100% clean energy for city government operations by 2030, and then achieving 3% annual energy use reduction in city facilities. Moving towards the back of the plan, Appendix A is just a list of references and resources. Appendix B, which is on the slide here, illustrates and articulates the greenhouse gas inventory that was conducted that I mentioned earlier. The top chart is the community-wide greenhouse gas inventory, and then the bottom chart is the greenhouse gas inventory for city government operations. Appendix C again shows the emissions reductions projections throughout the plan. The yellow line representing a status quo scenario without adoption of the Energy Action Plan and continued greenhouse gas emissions for the City of Fayetteville, and then the green downward line representing that 80 percent greenhouse gas emission reduction with adoption of the Energy Action Plan. Appendix D lists a timeline of all of the 100 plus action items that are in the plan in order of a timeline starting with the ongoing items moving through the short term, medium term, and long term action items. No plan like this would be complete without some level of some robust level of public input and Did want to remind the council about the community survey that was conducted in December of 2016 That community survey had over 1,200 citizen responses to it and those citizen responses indicated that 78% of Fayetteville residents are desired for the city of Fayetteville to prioritize renewable energy and energy efficiency programs. Additionally, another 62 percent of respondents indicated that the city should prioritize climate change preparedness. specific to this plan in the public outreach that we did in September and October we saw that 88% of respondents agreed that the city should strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that 92% agreed that we should assess the feasibility of upgrading to more efficient building codes 92% also agreed that we should strive to maintain and expand our urban tree canopy to mitigate our urban heat island impacts. And 78% agreed that we should strive to transition to 100% clean energy by 2050. One other item that I wanted to just touch on prior to conclusion is cost. So any plan like this, you may have questions about the cost to implement. So, with all plans and policies that Fayetteville does implement, specific actions are anticipated to have costs and necessary budget impacts. Although additional study and environmental, social, and financial costs and benefit and analysis is necessary to likely justify and will be brought forward at the appropriate time for recommendation of implementation of these various items. I did want to highlight a couple areas that we're already looking at in terms of cost related to this plan. So the city has been spending over $45,000. has been spending forty thousand dollars per year um that's been allocated in the capital improvement plan on building energy efficiency so we'll be evaluating moving forward if that's the appropriate amount of money to continue investing in our own city buildings Benchmarking is another area we're interested in looking at and we're currently in the process of implementing a new energy management software to help us do a better job of benchmarking city buildings. We're also evaluating tree planting programs that the city could sponsor and help promote to increase tree canopy throughout the city of Fayetteville. And then we're actively working with our two utility companies, Swepco and Ozarks Electric, to understand the cost to procure clean energy through those two utilities. In your hand you do have a copy of the one pager and I'll end with that as the final slide And I'll also end by saying that staff is of course recommending adoption of the resolution Adopting this plan normally because this is a resolution This would only require one reading at a City Council meeting but because of the length and complexity of this particular plan We didn't want to rush this plan through so staff is requesting that this resolution not be acted upon tonight And instead be pushed to you all's due January 2nd meeting to allow for adequate public input and comment. I'm more than happy to answer any questions now or between now and the January 2nd meeting. What questions do we have? John. Peter. You have to educate me my friend. Could you define clean energy? What is clean energy? That's a great question. So clean energy is Generally accepted to be cleaner than what we are using right now. Our current mix of energy that we receive from our utility companies is fairly coal heavy. It's roughly 50 to 60 percent coal in our energy blend, another 25 to 30 percent natural gas, and then there's some renewables beyond that. So clean is cleaner than what we are receiving right now. Give me examples of cleaner energy. Cleaner energy, wind power is definitely an example of cleaner energy, solar as well, biomass, natural gas that could be procured from landfill gas, from other sources that maybe weren't necessarily extracting it from the earth could also be construed as clean energy. that help so if i get methane gas from a landfill that's clean energy but if i take natural gas out of the ufs not clean energy it's not as clean not as clean yeah emissions associated with natural gas are cleaner than coal but because that So methane is actually a greenhouse gas in and of itself as well, and it's about 25 times more destructive than carbon dioxide. So if we're able to take that methane, keep it from being released to the atmosphere, and burn it to generate electricity instead, thereby offsetting natural gas that might have to be extracted from the earth, then that's generally, then that is definitely accepted as being cleaner. So your definition of clean energy is really cleaner energy. Yes. Maybe what we move to is not really clean in and of itself. In my mind, solar energy is one of the cleanest. Absolutely. Wind turbines produce noise, they kill birds, you know, there's motion there. Solar is passive, it just sits there. That would be perfectly clean if it wasn't for the manufacturing of the solar panel, which uses a lot of dirty energy to do that. You know, so a lot of times when we move to clean energy in our area, that's wonderful. But we're simply substituting, you know, to get the solar panels, we get the wind turbines, we're just using dirty energy in some other place, so there's no net gain. And some of those, I have had some of my staff research this today, apparently some people believe there's no net gain, in fact some believe there's a loss. It costs more energy to manufacture a solar panel than it does to just use energy to produce heat or cooling or transportation. there. So there are different points of view. I don't want us to be misled. I mean, I'm all look, if there's a magic bullet and we can have free energy and clean energy and the world's a beautiful place. But I just don't think it's as easy as what we sometimes believe it to be. So I caution us on that point. I still need more education. And one of your pages you reference encouraging a green roof. Now, what is a green roof? Green roof, that's a great question. So a green roof, traditional roof is asphalt shingles, maybe clay tile, maybe a metal roof. So a green roof would be a roof that is typically more structurally sound, more structurally substantial than a traditional roof, and has some level of layer of soil and then plants growing on it. If you've ever been in the Fayetteville Public Library and out on their patio that looks out to the south, they have a green roof that's just below you on that patio that has sedum plants in it. And so the benefit of a green roof is that it provides greater insulating value to the space below it. It also absorbs and captures some of the storm water that lands onto it, so there's less storm water runoff. And because it has plants growing on it, it's able to absorb carbon dioxide and breathe atmosphere out. as a living organism. And if I wanted to put a green roof on my house, I suppose it would be relatively flat? Yeah. Generally green roofs are flatter. There may need to be some slight level of slope. You might also need some level of structural upgrade to install a green roof on your house. How would a green roof compare in cost to a traditional, conventional asphalt shingle roof? Am I going to pay twice as much or three times as much? In a retrofit scenario, typically a lot more. But in a new construction scenario where it's designed holistically as part of the building, the cost might be minimized by offsetting costs in other areas. For example, you may be required to build less detention on your particular project because you're able to absorb and contain some of that storm water in your green roof, thereby offsetting the size of your detention basin or the size of the pipes that transfer stormwater away from the property. Assume it's new construction, house A puts in an asphalt shingle roof, same square footage, house B right next door puts in a green roof. What's the cost relationship there? Are we talking twice as much? The same price? What is it? I don't know what it is. I don't have that level of detail. I can't directly answer that question. I don't know those particular concepts. DAVID BURRAGE. Can you give me an answer, though? I could, and likely the answer I would get for you, John, is on the commercial side, not on a residential property. But typically, green roofs that I've seen anyway are on commercial and institutional-type buildings rather than on residential, at least on single-family residential, maybe multi-family residential. I like your idea of green roofs. And, Mayor, I wouldn't plant grass. I'd plant tomatoes. Well, no, the university does have a few of those because when I worked there, I saw some of the green roofs that they had planted on some of their roofs. It wasn't real big. They were just starting with it, I think. I like the idea. It's a fascinating concept. They work together to have the right kind of slope on them. Right. But I don't want to be forced to put one in. I want to be free to choose one if I want one. And I think what Peter's trying to tell you is that all this is a plan, but we bring back parts of the plan, and you will get a choice whether you approve it or don't approve it. Okay. Good. I'm sorry, Sarah, I guess I need to be watching. That's all right. I wanted to address Alderman Latour's or Councilmember Latour's concerns about green roof and the cost. Typically, the projects that I've worked on, we've experienced they've doubled the life of the roofing membrane because The soil and the plants protect the roof from UV rays, which are one of the primary causes of destruction, as well as insulates it from extreme diurnal temperature variations. That's the extreme hot and cold through the day and night. But typically in... A commercial setting they're used to dispose of condensate, which is the liquid that comes out of the HVAC unit. In a large building that can actually create quite a large amount of runoff. And so that's distributed over the green roof so that you're not dumping that into the municipal waste system. So there are multiple benefits of green roofs and they also just keep things quieter and more temperate indoors. I like the idea, just I want to know about cost factors. I mean... Well, I think that would be something we'd have to do, cost analysis. You know, I like Lamborghinis, but I don't buy them. Can I ask Sarah, how would you maintain that? I'm sure you're not up there mowing it when it gets a little tough. No, they're typically done with sedums, which are not a plant species that grows out of control. But you do have to get up there once or twice a year and weed. And it just depends on what type of system, whether it's a tray system where they actually just go in. put these little trays on the roof and then they anchor them down so that they're not going to blow off during a storm um, or there's the more integrated system where they build up the roof with um, the with the insulation and um, Those require a little bit more maintenance at establishment to get all the plants to work. They're lovely spaces, a lot of times they're inhabitable, but they've become very common on public buildings, especially in the Pacific Northwest. Because they do save a lot of money and they save maintenance in the long term and they enhance the longevity of the roofing membrane. The plants put off the oxygen and it's... They're really pretty. A great example of one is the Gates Foundation building. They've done a really nice job with theirs. You want to garden a garden? You probably like it. I've been saying it for the last ten minutes. I think it's a great idea. But I don't want to be forced to build it. I want to choose to build it. But I want to thank Councilwoman Marsh and Peter for the education. Thank you. Thank you, Councilmember Marsh, for that explanation. what are the questions that we have for peter uh kyle i don't actually have a question but i just wanted to stop and thank peter and his staff as a member of the environmental action committee i got to watch this from beginning to end and the amount of effort and detail that they have looked at and when you get to the action items the list goes on and on and on there's a menu to choose from here and i don't think that they've ever come to tell us that every single one of these has to be done but um we have choices in this plan to make sure that whatever situation comes up there's something we can do to make it better than it is today and i'm i'm thrilled to get to look at this over the next couple weeks thank you peter all right sarah i'm really pleased that uh that you mentioned, it's like a menu, because that's what I took away from it when I read it. And it is extensive and it breaks everything down into what you can look at as a, you know, what's a short term and what's a long term and so on like that. So if you look at this and you think, okay, I'm wanting to start on something as just one person, you know, there's lots of things that just an average person could do. And I really do appreciate all the work that you put into this, Peter. But I hate to ask, but I would like a paper copy of it. Absolutely. They are kind of nice. It's hard to read. We should probably note that it's available on our website for anybody to download. And I could print it off myself. We'll get you a copy. How will that work? That will work great. Thank you. All right. Who else? Questions? All right, what public comment do we have tonight? We're going to be looking at it again in two weeks, so. Good evening, council. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Chris McNamara. I was born and raised in Northwest Arkansas and am a longtime resident of Fayetteville. I manage my family's small art business and help run a statewide nonprofit advocating public policy to address climate change. I also participated on the stakeholder group for Fayetteville's Energy Action Plan. Fayetteville's Energy Action Plan is a vision and a commitment that aligns with a long tradition of leadership here in Fayetteville. Our city is a place where people want to live. People move here from across the state and across the nation because we have spent decades investing in our downtown, our regional transportation networks, our educational systems, our cultural amenities and our business opportunities. The Energy Action Plan touches on each of these aspects that I just mentioned, but uniquely focuses on how well our city ensures standards of high living and future opportunities in the face of 21st century uncertainties for the economy and for our climate. By creating benchmarks from which we can measure progress, by rewarding action and investment, and creating a clear signal that we as a city are committed to addressing these challenges, we are taking the first steps to ensure that our city is a place that people want to continue to live for the next 50 and 100 years. So I thank you, Council, for your leadership on this issue and for your service to our community. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I guess we're going to hold it here. Well, we need a motion to table until the next meeting. You're right. Sir, Matthew. Yeah, thank you, Mayor. I did have something to ask about. Oh, sure. Peter, you listed the big five emission sources. I was curious, do these constitute all of our emission sources, or what proportion of our total emissions do these big five make up? I'm looking at Rachel, who's our greenhouse gas inventory expert. What we used is this ICLEI protocol, which is the standard for local governments to conduct community-wide greenhouse gas inventories. Do you have an estimate on it? The estimate is within a 10-month period. There's some things that we're not capturing on the current offset, but a 3-week period is not having every day to see what I've written about. Do you think more than 80% of total emissions is fair to say? I'm sorry, could you repeat your question? Do you think if I say the Big Five constitute more than 80% of total emissions, that's fair? Yes, the protocol would suggest, yes, you're very close. Well, I'm thrilled with this. I know we're going to hold it. I can't I can't wait for the next round of discussions. Some of these moves are huge. And, you know, I know that it's, it's really tempting because we're so fascinated by it to dive into discussions about things like green roofs, or other specific technologies. But I think we have to be careful. Because things like that make up such a small, small, small impact. in this plan when we look at these big five emission sources. When we talk about 50 percent community-wide clean energy by 2030, that requires huge institutional partnerships. These are the kinds of moves that changed the way that change the types of jobs that people are employed in, that change the types of facility and infrastructure that our community and everyone who lives here relies on that goes so far beyond things like any particular building technology. So I think we need to make sure that we keep our awareness around what we actually need to focus our attention on. As an example, you know, I noticed that Infill was one of the strategies that was talked about in the actual plan. It's well documented and this surprised me so much. If you take the best efficiency apartment with every kind of green gizmo you can think about and you put it out on the edge of town where that person who lives there has to drive to literally everything they do, and you take the worst, most inefficient McMansion and you put it in the center of town where that person does not have to drive to everything they do, or to even substitute a third of their drives for walking, that McMansion, that user in that McMansion spends less energy than the person in the gizmo-greened-out efficiency apartment. That's well documented. That's peer-reviewed scientific fact. And so whenever we think about this, I only use this to illustrate this point. You know, we have a solid waste reduction plan that gets the landfill waste. We have made some huge, huge strides at our wastewater treatment facilities with our partner CH2M Hill in the past. And I think we're going to be able to make some very significant strides, even deeper strides there in the future. When we start to talk about electricity generation, we're talking about things that are utility scale, things that go so much farther and require so much more coordination. So I know we're holding this for two weeks. When we talk about this challenge, it's going to be up to us, it's going to be up to our kids and other young people to solve this as things go forward. We need to understand that this is only the beginning of huge, huge moves, and if we limit ourselves, if we limit our thinking to green roofs or better windows or things like that, we are totally missing the mark. Personal behavior alone will not begin to scratch the surface on this challenge. It has to be entirely institutional or even societal in nature. And I think that this plan captures that. And I hope we as a council don't lose sight of that. I do want to add to that. When I look through this study, if I'm reading this correctly, about 27% of the emissions, greenhouse emissions coming from this city comes from transportation. Is that fair? And then construction debris was 22%. And then 18% it was food waste. So if we just applied ourselves to those three categories, if we don't do anything else, and this is not, I mean, we're not going to, you know, it's like our economic development plan. In any other plan that we bring to you, we don't implement the whole thing all at once. We take it in pieces. But we've got to hit, our goal is to hit By 2030, have all of our city buildings on clean energy. Now that's gonna take some work. And then the whole city by 2050, that's gonna take some work. You know what, and then folks said, well, that may never happen. Maybe it will, it may not, but we'll never know till we try, will we? So you put it out there, because we do know, I do believe that climate change is real. And I believe the science, I believe we need to get off the fossil fuels, and we need to start. in this city right now no other city does it we need to do it anyway but anyhow so I assume we're going to table this for two weeks who would like to make that motion Matthew yeah I'll move to table this for until the next meeting January 2nd Sarah second the motion is seconded to table for two weeks Senator would you please call the roll Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On the council, to remind your constituents, we have a new honk signal crosswalk on North College Avenue 71B at Rebecca and Trenton. That signal has been activated. There are guidelines of how to drive those signals. This is not the first one in town. But to remind citizens that when it is not blinking, you drive through. When it is blinking yellow, it means it's going to turn red solid. A solid red requires a stop. A blinking red requires a stop until it's clear and then go. And then no light. You can continue driving. Those are on the actual beacons. This is one of a new signal in a very highly congested area, so we just want to make sure we do a good job of educating and getting that word out. There's information on it on the city's website. Also, Monday, Christmas Day, December the 25th, and Tuesday, December the 26th, city offices will be closed for the Christmas Eve and Christmas Day holidays since part of the holidays fall on the weekend. They shift to Monday and Tuesday. We will be open for business on Wednesday the 27th and remind the Council that your normal meeting date on December 26th is moved to Thursday the 28th when it falls on a holiday Otherwise, the staff would like to wish the council a very Merry Christmas and happy holiday season and safe travels if you're on the road and for our citizens as well. Also, our police department has issued safety tips and guidelines for reducing car break-ins and things of that nature by not leaving things in it. It's on our city website. I encourage you to pay attention to those as you carry things about this holiday season. John? Mr. Mayor, I'd be remiss if I didn't remind us that 2017 years ago, our calendars changed. We went from B.C. to A.D., and A.D. stands for Ados Domini, in the year of our Lord. We'll be celebrating Christmas this Monday. Don touched on it, but I want to highlight it. And Siri likes to chime in, too. Excuse me. So this Monday is Christmas. Happy holidays and Merry Christmas. and before we leave i want to thank the council because we won't meet again until the first of the year well we'll have an agenda session won't we but then that city council may be the first year i want to thank you for your service to this city and the work that you've done because we have taken on some pretty hot topics this last year and I can assure you 2018 will be no different for you. So Thank you for your service. Thank you for your work. I want to wish you and The city a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year as well. So thank you all and we're adjourned.