I would like to call the City Council meeting to order for December 14th, 2021. Karen, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Here. Jones? Here. Kenyon? Here. Scroggins? Here. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Bunch?
 Hertzberg? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Well, good evening, everyone. We have a
 We have one order of businesses tonight, which Councilmember Jones I believe is asked to reconsider a vote and let me just read the title so everybody knows what is being reconsidered resolutions approve change order number eight to the contract with NAB host construction corporation in the amount of ten million three hundred and seventy three thousand eight hundred eighty eight dollars for the guaranteed maximum price of
 related to the cultural arts corridor replacement parking deck project and to approve a budget Adjustment this is a 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project. Is that correct councilmember Jones? Is that what you wish to reconsider? Yes, mayor Jordan that is correct. I
 So since you voted for the majority that turned down the vote on this resolution, you are empowered to make a motion to reconsider, if that's your choice. Yes, Kit. I would like to make a motion to reconsider my no vote. Second. We have a motion to second to do a reconsideration vote of the resolution that was denied previously.
 So, Karen, would you please call the roll? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 So Mayor, we're right back at the same spot immediately before the City Council voted on this at the last meeting. Okay. So let's start with, Wade, would you like to present council? Thank you, Mayor.
 i want to begin by recognizing the private side of our public private partnership ted belden with dixon street west investments and sterling hamilton with sage partners have joined us tonight in person understand greg house with depot llc and dixon west investments wanted to be here but is out of town i also want to acknowledge farmers and merchants bank bank of favor and blake holzhauer
 for their involvement in this project. They played a vital role as it could not have happened without the sale of their property to the city. They've been very accommodating throughout this entire process. So I'd like to take a minute to review some of the steps taken to where we are today. This process started years before some council members were even here and it may be helpful to update others.
 So in April of 2019, Fayetteville voters approved question eight on the bond initiative for the cultural arts quarter and replacement park. In January of 2020, council approved a resolution of intent to pursue the purchase of the depot property to build the deck after two previous meetings of discussion. At that same meeting, council approved a resolution for engineering services with Olsen LLC for the design of the deck.
 In June of 2020, Council approved a construction management at-risk services with NABHOLDS for the construction of the deck. This was based on a selection committee's recommendations. NABHOLDS also offered reduced fees and reduced overhead since the deck would be built in conjunction with the Arts Quarter project.
 In August of 2020, Council approved a resolution of an intent to agree and to move forward in more detail the terms of the proposed contract between the City of Fayetteville, Bank of Fayetteville, and Depot LLLC. In March of 2021, Council approved an ordinance for the sale of the North Plaza property and real estate purchase contracts with Farmers and Merchants Bank, Fayetteville Depot LLC,
 and Dixon and West Investments LLC. At that same meeting, the terms of the public-private partnership contract were reviewed in detail with council. Also in March, council approved an amendment to Olson's contract to include the architectural service for design elements on the deck to include canopies, facade treatments, cornices, and a PD substation design.
 In November on the 21st of this year, council approved change order number six with NAB holds for the early site package for the deck. So as you can see, we've brought this project forward step by step. The item tonight is for a guaranteed maximum price. Approval of this item will allow us to move forward with the construction. This item has become even more time sensitive.
 because as a deadline for the subcontractors to hold their prices expires Friday. So it's very urgent that we get this done there. And so with that, I want to turn this over to Ted Belden to discuss the impact of this partnership to our downtown redevelopment. Well, what I would like to do is to wait till there's ten minutes total. The developer that, Kip, what's the ruling here?
 Well, I guess that can ask someone to speak for another 10 minutes. Okay, what do we have left for? We have six minutes. How much? Okay, Ted, you have six minutes.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm Ted Belden. I live at 504 East Lafayette and I'm pleased to share some thoughts about this project. I'm excited about it. It's amazing how long it's been since this project really kind of got started. I was looking back and reading it was in December of 2018 when the City Council kind of moved forward with this whole idea of the project.
 It was about 18 months ago that Greg House approached me and asked if I would be willing and wanted to be a part of it and I enthusiastically said yes. This is a great project. I'm invested in several other projects in downtown Fayetteville and was excited to be a part of this.
 This whole cultural arts corridor project, now the Ramble, and I'll try to refer to it as the Ramble, I think will definitely be a catalyst. We've used that word several times in meetings that will bring additional investment into downtown Fayetteville.
 I do own the Dixon and the UARC Bowl and I'm currently talking to architects on what we can be doing differently with those two projects. So I'm excited about what's happened at the corner of Dixon and West with the new restaurant, hopefully entrepreneur that's coming in there. I don't know what they factored in but I'm sure if I was them the parking deck would have been a serious consideration about investing in our town and bringing that entertainment venue and restaurant to Fayetteville.
 There's just lots of other things about the project. I think that the park entity itself, that'll extend into the Fay Jones Garden, would just be a draw for our citizens and our tourists and our visitors to our town and be a wonderful amenity that we can be proud of here in Fayetteville.
 It'll be amazing to see, I think, in the future how we're going to be able to program and use that new cultural arts, the Ramble. I think that everybody will appreciate having a green space. I know that the Walton Arts Center is supportive of where this location of the deck is. It's not right across from where they are, but it's very close. I think that was one of the things that was very instrumental about the location, that it be built within a thousand feet of the Walton Arts Center. And so it is.
 and it'll provide a good parking for the Walton Arts Center and all the other patrons of the city of Fayetteville. Excited to see it happen, appreciate the vote of reconsideration so that we can get this project going and get a shovel in the ground and get this thing built. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Tiff. Okay, what questions does City Council have for the staff or anyone else that's been connected with Susan or whoever? What questions do we have?
 Okay, let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak everybody has a five-minute duration Roping into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone of the public or any council member stay on topic which is the cost of the ten million dollars
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person in the council chambers after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Well, we have several, and no one has raised their hand yet. Oh, here we have Jerry Davis. Thank you, Jerry. Can you hear me? Yes.
 Hi, my name is Jerry Davis. I am the general manager of 21st Amendment Rogers Rec, Los Bobos and West End. I just wanted to say I really do appreciate you all reconsidering this vote.
 This is something that we have all been waiting for for a very long time, and we've already voted on this. And to be honest with you, I'm just going to reiterate like I have every single time and just say that this is going to be a wonderful project for downtown Fayetteville.
 This is going to bring a lot of business to the area. The spot that you guys have voted for this to go, this is the best possible spot that the parking deck can go to benefit everyone on Dixon Street, West Avenue, pretty much in the surrounding area. Like I said, I really do appreciate you guys
 taking the time to reconsider this vote and I hope that you guys do vote yes because like I said we're all ready and it is time to get this thing going because we're about to run out of time so thank you thank you Peter Lane go ahead Peter hi there can you hear me yes oh great I'm mr. mayor City Council
 I live in Fayetteville, 401 West Watson. I'm also the President and CEO of the Wal-Mart Center. Just want to offer our support for consideration of this proposal. I think it's critical that we get this step done so we can focus on what the voters voted for, which was to create a large cultural arts quarter with
 the lower bramble and the upper bramble. I'm bramble mixed up here, but the big civic plaza, which I think is what we all wanted to see happen and want to support. And we can't do that without having parking and replacement parking. So time is clicking fast.
 is moving on and I think it's really critical that we move forward with this. I recognize as everyone else does that the project has exceeded the original budget, but we're seeing that in every project that we've been doing and it's
 happening all over our region. It's unfortunate, but costs are going up. And so that's a reality. And so I would just encourage, and on behalf of our entire organization, City Council to move forward expeditiously with this, get this moving. Let's get shovels in the ground. Let's start working on this. We've been working on this now for three plus years and
 that it's now time. So thank you for your support on this. Thank you. Who else? I see a few others, but no hands are raised at this time. Okay. Well, then we'll... Whoops, sorry. Brian Crown. Okay, go ahead. All right. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Cool. Thank you so much. I appreciate your time. My wife, Day, and myself, Brian Crown, I own Georgia's Majestic Lounge.
 Next door to the soon to have ramble. We're excited to see it come online. I'd also like to thank the detail and history of the project that city staff outlined earlier. I think it shows a thoughtful process from city staff and city council. And I and my wife fully support hoping that city council will approve this change order. The unfortunate reality of inflation has impacted just every aspect of construction and it's
 And it's unfortunate, but I think in the long run, the investment is needed and we support it and we want to see it completed. And given the times of the essence, you know, we ask that you guys reconsider your vote and vote yes this evening. And thank you for your time and what you guys do for our city. Thank you. Who else? No more hands are raised, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the chamber. Who in the chamber would like to address us on this issue? Okay. Okay.
 All right, then in public comment, what discussion or action items would council like to have on this resolution of a re-vote? Mayor, I received an email from an interested citizen, and he had several questions that I'd like to see if we can get answers to tonight. His first question, is there anything preventing Mr. House from selling his rights to develop the top floor of the parking deck? Okay, who's got the answer?
 I'm sorry, could you repeat that question? Sure. Is there anything preventing Mr. House from selling his rights to develop the top floor of the parking deck? Wait, I wanted to just interject right quick because Ted could answer on behalf of their entire entity. This is not a project between Mr. House and the city. It's a project between a corporation that's represented by several people.
 Right. So Ted, if you would like to. Again, Ted Belden. In the contract that has been negotiated, I don't believe there is anything that would prohibit us from doing that. But it certainly is not the intention or the desire on our part. But I don't believe, to answer your question, that there is anything that stipulates that we would have to own it forever and ever in terms of our future rights to that, the rights to build above it. I will say just, and I meant to say it earlier,
 The costs have gone up and we had thought that the infrastructure improvements that we were gonna be spending to build, potentially build on top of the deck, at one time was a half a million dollars, it's about a million two is what the developers have to pay for that extra infrastructure cost. And we do intend to cooperate with the construction schedule now to build out the six floor parking, which will add an additional 34 parking spaces to the spaces that are gonna be built by the city. So I think that's important to add to the equation.
 Thank you. His next question is, can any of the LLCs or other entities involved sell their property rights, the food court area or 14,000 square feet of ground level spaces? They could. I mean, this parking deck is going to become the horizontal property regime, and we will have our 14,000, 15,000 square feet in the commercial area of the building. And we will hopefully rent those. I don't think that it prohibits us from selling them now.
 His last question is, is there any of the increased costs due to the shared development rights? If so, are they being asked to pay more?
 Definitely yes, we are being asked to pay more and we tried to kind of put a stop with the cost of what they are. So we are paying from $500,000 to $1.2 million on the infrastructure cost and it's an additional, I think our total share of the developers cost is about $2.7 million.
 Thank you. And I have one question for the city. As of right now, I mean, Wayne, Wade went through all the different contracts and details that have transpired. But I'd like to know right now, does the city own the land that this parking deck is going to be built on completely? I can easily answer that. Not until we close, which is scheduled to be right after this vote. Okay.
 So the investments that the city has made already have been on property that the city does not own yet. Is that correct? That's correct. The city has invested design work into the obligation the council made to go ahead with this deal last March. Okay. Thank you. You know, I would like to say that it's not uncommon for
 someone who is looking at buying a piece of property, especially for a big commercial project, to invest some money up front to see if they could actually build a project in the first place. So that's not that uncommon, Teresa, to have some investment there up front to see if you can actually use that. What else do we have in the council?
 I have a comment. I was unable to attend the last meeting, but I just want to make sure and be able to give some input. You know, this project for me is about at least 10 years overdue. And that's because Crystal Bridges, you know, has been in the region for that long and has.
 The amount and the variety and the revenue that we're of visitors and the people and the opportunities that our businesses have missed because of that is enormous and financial impact to the city. And every day that we delay this deck, we're delaying more opportunity. And so it's very important that we get this deck built and we build it.
 fast and build it soon so that we can welcome people and welcome also their dollars, you know, and welcome our economy because those businesses on Dixon Street and it's going to go beyond Dixon Street because we're talking about our creative economy. Our artists will be there on site, hopefully selling things, hopefully performing, hopefully with their installation work and everything that they do.
 And why we're why we're investing in this area because investing in in that deck is investing in the creative economy. So not only the Walton Art Center and Theater Squared and everything in the area is going to benefit, but
 I think even us as city of Fayetteville residents are going to benefit because we'll have a place for people to come to visit. I don't know about you all, but not that I don't take them around the square to my favorite restaurant in Fayetteville. But as soon as they say they're coming from out of town, I take them to Bentonville to the Crystal Bridges area. But I'm so excited to take them to the Arts Corridor area and have a place now with a stroller to go there.
 right on the Dixon Street Park and enjoy it equally as an equal big attraction. And so we need this deck, and I hope that everyone who maybe didn't vote for it before will consider voting for it. And I just want to thank everybody for all your work that has gone into it so far. So I will stop talking and delaying this vote.
 I do want to explain a little bit of my position and it has nothing to do with the project itself as far as its beauty or the fact that it's going to be a great place, a sense of place, but what it has to do with we are in a public private relationship here and
 One way that I look at this is the fiscal responsibility that we have in managing taxpayers' money. This year, we are preparing to approve a deficit budget for the year that's coming up, which I know that we're going to cover our deficit. I feel all confidence in that, but at the same time, it's a risk that we're taking.
 Another thing is as we move forward with this project, the location is certainly already established. That is not people have been saying, ah, it's too late. It's too late. Okay, I agree. It could be too late. But also, I have to look at the point. Is it physically responsible for us at this time to take the move forward?
 and allocating money to a project that is in my mind a public and private relationship the deck itself indeed is the city deck but i would have liked to have seen more discussion
 on how this partnership with the private entity could have worked closer with us to manage the override. I don't think that it has been, in my view,
 really talked about. It was presented. I felt like that I was pressured into voting one way or the other, and I'm not good at being pressured. I want the facts. I want the alternatives. I want a large number of alternatives and an open discussion on the possibilities.
 And I don't feel like that that is what was presented to me or that I was involved in as we move forward. We were simply presented with the fact that there's a cost overrun and that we have to come to the rescue. So I think it's vitally important for us to move forward on this project. It is the manner in which we are accepting all the responsibility for something that is a private-public partnership. So...
 IT'S A MATTER OF FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY THE WAY THAT I'M LOOKING AT IT. I HOPE THAT THAT WILL CLARIFY A LOT OF THE MISINFORMATION THAT I HAVE BEEN PRESENTED WITH BY INDIVIDUALS IN THE COMMUNITY THAT THINK I'M SOME WAY TRYING TO INHIBIT THE CREATIVE ECONOMY OR INHIBIT A PROJECT THAT WAS INDEED PASSED BY BOND.
 the vote for the bond and so i cannot support this because i do not think that we looked at every available opportunity that would be available through a public-private relationship that we have in developing this property and i think currently uh that has not been it to me in my satisfaction okay one other we have a resolution um
 Yeah, I also agree. I don't like the process that we got here, but sunk cost or sunk cost, we need to look at the thing that's in front of us. I know some people want to talk about the other location. Well, guess what? Concrete is still more expensive over there. It's not like it's a cheaper concrete option over there.
 Really hoping four or five years, the vision that's been laid out for me in front of me, I think will be wonderful down there. Yes, we could have done it quicker and probably saved the city some money. But I still think that it is a net positive for the citizens of Fayetteville. So I will vote for it again. I would like to reiterate location has nothing to do with my decision this evening.
 For me, the opportunity to reconsider is based upon me being a champion of the arts corridor and me being a champion of boosting Fayetteville's economy and respecting the voice of Fayetteville voters. So I change my vote to yes concerning the parking deck. Okay. Thank you.
 I'd also like to clarify my position a little bit because I think I've been and so misunderstood on this just a tad. I've been concerned about the lack of transparency in the process from the beginning as I have stated before. I am a huge supporter of the arts. There is no doubt about that. I volunteer often. I think people know that within the community.
 The location, we didn't really get a choice. It was gonna be down there on Dixon Street and it was not fairly evaluated. So that has been one issue.
 The other issue is all the swapping of properties. You know, the depot building, the entire building is on the National Register of Historic Places. And under this deal, only half of it will be preserved.
 The other half will not necessarily be preserved. And that kind of goes against what I understood Fayable to stand for. We would like to protect our historic properties when the opportunity presents itself through the city. So there are many components of this deal that I don't feel were discussed openly, transparently, at length.
 And so what I'm really objecting to tonight is all of the secondary deals that the citizens did not vote for. They only voted for a parking lot and the Cultural Arts Center. They didn't vote for swapping this property for that deal and 14,000 or 16,000 feet of space for the developers in the parking deck.
 So I think those issues should have been discussed much more openly and thoroughly and presented as options. So I'm sure it will go through tonight, but I don't think that we've fiscally done a very good job. $3.1 million overrun is pretty significantly in the times that we're living with. Thank you. You know, I want to chime in here a little bit.
 You know, when I'm thinking about this, as I'm listening to everyone talk, I'm trying to remember, you know, I'm just remembering all these, you know, these meetings. And I don't remember how many there were. It could have been one meeting that just seemed like four meetings, you know. Some of our meetings have been that way. But I remember going back when we were first looking at these locations and we just...
 feed them up over and over and over again. You know, we had the Nadine Baum suggestion, you know, and then we had this suggestion and the Spring Street and everything. I just remember, it seems like we had a lot of meetings. I don't, I don't know how many we had, but it seems like we talked about this location a lot and we talked about the process a lot and we brought on a
 You know, and I don't like overruns either. I mean, nobody does, but we're just in an economy. Our economy right now is just everything is costing so much more. It's just, you know, and I don't think the mayor said last week, this is not going to be the last one we see on our city projects we have going on. But I remember early on we hired a.
 Somebody can help me with the name of the attorney we hired to help us negotiate the contract. Vicki Bronson. You know, so, pardon me? Her name was Vicki Bronson, is Vicki Bronson. Yes. So we have had an expert helping us negotiate this. You know, and I, you know, I don't know, maybe we could have had more input as this was going on. I don't know. But I kind of, you know, I kind of feel like, you know.
 I feel like we had quite a few meetings about the different parts of the contract and how it was coming together. That I was part of every negotiation. I don't think I have to be. I don't know how we all could be and be effective because we're not all experts in this. And so we do have to rely on people from the city, city staff, and people that we've hired to help us negotiate these things. So I think we did that.
 But I just, you know, I think this is as far as location. We've said this is not a location issue. It's a cost issue. I think the location is the best location. And it's unfortunate that we're going to have cost overruns at all. But I think we just need to move forward on it. Thank you. One other discussion we'd like to have. This is a resolution. I would like to move that we pass the resolution if there's not any further questions. I second it.
 Okay, we have a motion second to pass resolution. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay, I want to say just a couple of things here before we vote. I have believed and still believe that this is a catalyst of change for this whole area. I think environmentally we're seeing stream restoration. We're going to be planting native trees. We're going to be replacing asphalt with pervious papers, daylighting a stream.
 going to reduce stormwater runoff. Economically, you've heard from the downtown Dixon Street businesses. Tonight, many of them, you have heard from the Walton Arts Center. Another thing, one of the things that I've heard from the Dixon Street businesses, they want to have a safe area. We're gonna have a police substation down there, so I think that's huge. And the third point I want to make tonight, it's gonna be a gathering place for all, for everybody.
 It will be a place where everybody is welcome and everybody can come enjoy the arts and be exposed to the arts. And I think that's hugely important in this city, in this time, in this place. I think it's a catalyst for change. I think it's the right vote. I would appreciate your vote tonight. So if there's not any further discussion, Caravanser, please call the roll. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? No. Scroggins? Yes. Harris?
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Can that pass, Mayor? All right. Thank you all very much. Very much. Here we go.