I want to call the City Council meeting of December the 15th, 2020 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Present. Fudge. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor Jordan. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, welcome everyone in light of the current health concerns. Federal City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually.
 I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan. I'm present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Kid Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk. Treasurer Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Chief of CTO, IT Director. Police Chief Mike Reynolds. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. Two representatives from Federal's IT Department.
 City Council members, city staff, and the public participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded from public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the city of Federal, and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting, including contacting city council members
 City Clerk's Office or City staff prior to the meeting, viewing through Federal's government online or the City's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public comment portion of the item of which you wish to comment.
 I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record. Public comments should be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak.
 Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes.
 City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Now let's go ahead and begin. First order of business we have tonight is the service recognition plaques for City Council Members Sarah Marsh and Kyle Smith. Tonight, I want to recognize two of our Council Members for their hard work on behalf of the City of Federal.
 I have a few words of appreciation to share about Councilmember Sarah Marsh and Kyle Smith, and I have the service plaques for them. I wish I could hand these to you personally tonight, but we'll have to make do with a virtual presentation because of the pandemic. First, Sarah Marsh, who has served Ward 1 for the past eight years. And when I think of Sarah's many contributions to this city, a few things really stand out in my mind.
 her work on the Federal Arts Council, the Highway 71B project, Kessler Mountain, our LGBTQ civil rights ordinance, the 2019 bond projects, food security and urban agriculture, and her advocacy for affordable housing. Sarah's work on these projects
 and many more over the years have strengthened South Fayetteville and helped to make the entire city a great place to live and work. So, Sarah, I want to thank you tonight for your service and your dedication to the people of Fayetteville, and the plaque reads in recognition of your commitment to the citizens of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, from 2013 to 2021.
 with sincere appreciation for your dedicated service as a council member on the Federal City Council. Thank you, Sarah, very much for your work. Thank you. It's been a real honor to serve and a pleasure to work with all of you. Okay, the next is Councilmember Kyle Smith. He served Ward 4 for the past three years. In just three years, he's made a big impact in several areas.
 improving public participation and engagement in city government, bringing a focus on land planning, supporting the 2019 bond projects, advocating for affordable housing and thoughtful growth on the west side of town, and helping secure and preserve public green space through Lewis Fields and Underwood Park.
 Kyle's work on these issues and many more have helped shape the future of West Fed Bull and the entire city. Kyle, I want to thank you for your service and dedication to the people of Fed Bull and West.
 The plaque reads Kyle Smith in recognition of your commitment to the citizens of the city of federal Arkansas 2017 through 2020 with service appreciation for your dedicated service as a council member of the federal city council. Kyle this is for you. Thank you for your service. Thank you Mayor. It's been an honor and a pleasure to work with y'all and I appreciate the opportunity to do it.
 Absolutely. And I want to finish by saying it's been my privilege to serve this city alongside each of you. And I want you to know how much I appreciate everything that you both have done and will continue to do for Federal. Again, I wish we could have you here in person tonight to receive these service awards. I look forward to seeing you in person sometime soon.
 We will make sure to get these plaques delivered to you safely and as soon as possible. Thank you again very much. All right. All right. The next order of business we have tonight is the nominating committee report. Sarah Box, I believe you have this one. Yes, I do. Thank you. Let me get my cheaters on here and we'll go to town. This is our nominating committee report. We met December 9th and 10th.
 and everyone was present. The mayor recommends the following candidates for appointment. Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport Authority, Mike Johnson, one term ending 1231-26. Blake Woolsey, one term ending 1231-26. Public Facilities Board, Marjo Burke, one term ending 1231-25.
 The Housing Authority Board of Commissioners recommends the following candidates for appointment. Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, Monique Jones, one unexpired term ending 12-28-22, Kristen Bensinger, one term ending 12-28-25, and the Nominating Committee recommends the following candidates for appointment.
 Active Transportation Advisory Committee, John Ray, one term ending 1231.22. Jeremy Rahn, one term ending 1231.22. And Daniel Grime, one term ending 1231.22. Airport Board, Ian Thulking, one aeronautical term ending 1231.25. Audit Committee, Ann Gearty, one CPA term ending 1231.23.
 Civil Service Commission, Spencer Brown, one unexpired term ending 3-31-24. And Energy Improvement District number one, Joseph Donahue, one term ending 12-31-22.
 Environmental Action Committee, Jeff Pummel, one community citizen at large term ending 1231.23. Glenda M. Patterson, one community citizen at large term ending 1231.23. Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, Joel Freund, one term ending 1231.23. Andrew Brink, one term ending 1231.23.
 Julie Chambers, one term ending 1231.23. Urban Forestry Advisory Board. Ted, excuse me, Blake Tedford got that backwards. Like Tedford, one tree service community term ending 1231.22. Samuel Hunter Atkinson, one community citizen at large term ending 1231.22. Lacey Jenin, one community citizen at large term ending 1231.22.
 Zane Colvin, one community citizen at large term ending 1231-22. Thank you. All right. I will entertain a motion and a second to accept the nominations of the nominating committee. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the nominations of the nominating committee. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Before we get into the consent agenda, item A4 has been pulled by Councilmember Marsh. It's a resolution to approve the Department policies 44.1.1, juvenile operations and 84.1.1, property management.
 acquired and in custody. Is that correct, Sarah? Yes, I had a citizen request that we pull it so that she may make comments. Okay, all right. And I will read the rest of the consent agenda as written. Number one, approval of the December 1st, 2020 city council meeting minutes. Number two,
 A resolution to approve a contract with Community Access Television Incorporated, DBA, Your Media, any amount of $197,133 for the provision of public access television services and the operation of the public access television channel through 2021. Number three, a resolution to approve budget adjustment
 A budget adjustment, the total amount of $27,939. Recognizing donation revenue to the Federal Police Department, a four has been pulled, or it's been put on new business, first item of new business. Not the first item of new business, but as soon as I read the consent agenda, it's right.
 Number five, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a wetland program development grant in the amount of $300,000 from the Environmental Protection Agency, Region 6, for stream restoration projects within the City of Federal and to approve the budget adjustment. This is a 2019 drainage improvement bond project. Number six, a resolution to...
 To approve task order number seven with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the amount of $205,000 for stream bank erosion assessment and stream restoration activities along portions of the upper Clear Creek Basin within the Illinois River watershed. Number seven, a resolution to approve task order number two with Garver LLC in the amount of $325,000.
 325 350 for design and bidding services associated with the runway pavement and lighting rehabilitation project at great field to approve project contingency any amount of 32 535 dollars and to improve budget adjustment number eight a resolution to approve reimbursement to the recycling and trash collection fund for the property located at razorback road in indian trail
 that is being conveyed to the University of Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment. Number nine, a resolution to authorize acceptance of CARES Act funds in the amount of $2,915,062 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number 10, a resolution to approve a one-year contract with automatic renewals for four additional one-year terms with TEC, the employment company, DBA, TEC, staffing services as primary provider for janitor, custodian, transportation, maintenance worker, and other positions as needed.
 and as the secondary provider for the general clerical and GIS technician positions. Number 11, a resolution to approve a one-year contract following renewals for four additional one-year terms with Daugherty and Daugherty Investments LLC DBA first employment staffing as
 the primary provider for general clerical and GIS technician positions, as secondary provider for janitor, custodian, transportation, maintenance worker, parking maintenance worker, and other positions as needed. Number 12, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $237 representing community development block grant income and donations from citizens and local businesses.
 Number 13, a resolution to approve the contract with Southwestern Electric Power Company to participate in an energy efficiency rebate program and accept an incentive rebate in the amount of $5,643.63 for energy savings generated from the use of LED lighting on the Neocosco Creek Trail and to improve budget adjustments.
 14. A resolution to change the name of South Centennial Park Lane to South Montmille-Sap Lane. 15. A resolution to change the name of West Pike Street to West Echo Lane.
 Number 16, a resolution to authorize an application for certified local government grant in the amount of $60,000 to the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program to complete a community-wide preservation plan and a cultural resource survey of the University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhoods and to approve budget adjustment.
 appropriating matching funds any amount of $20,000 contingent upon approval of the grant. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Croghan? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Varsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. Now let's go on to A4 before we get into unfinished business. A resolution to approve federal police department policies 44.1.1, juvenile operations in 84.1.1, property management required and in custody.
 Sarah, I believe this is yours. I'm just pulling this on behalf of a constituent, Sarah Moore. Maybe she is in the participants and would like to make a comment. Okay. So I assume there's no questions from the council. And we'll take public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 uh five minutes broken into three and two segments don't engage anyone in the public or any city council members stay on the topic uh please no rude behavior give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first and we'll open it up for public comment go ahead sarah i don't see sarah on the call okay and i don't see any other hands raised uh
 What would you like to do, Sarah? Table this until we get into new business. Okay, that'll be fine. I need a motion and a second to table until we get to new business. I move we table until we get to new business. Okay. Second. Okay, thank you all. Caravage, please call the roll. Broggan? Yes. Funch? Yes. Herk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? No.
 Yes. Gideon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Okay, thank you all. We'll pick that up first. Item of new business under unfinished business. Um,
 uh the railroad is back but we uh we need to amend the old ordinance to this new ordinance and i will read the title of the new one of the new one of the new one and then we need a motion a second to put it on the agenda so we can talk about to amend to it okay to amend to it all right in order to weigh competitive bidding and authorize a new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement
 and an easement agreement with the Arkansas and Missouri Railroad for a new railroad crossing with Futrell Drive and Gregg Avenue to approve a project contingency in the amount of $30,820.86 and to approve a budget adjustment for the estimated total project cost of $550,000. And Mayor, my office sent out this proposed new ordinance after Chris had successfully negotiated a new agreement with the railroad last week.
 uh we sent it out and i just sent it out before this meeting so we need a motion to amend uh to this new ordinance and including the new contract that uh chris has negotiated okay there i move that we amend the ordinances as you read it and to include second all right thank you all we have a motion a second to amend uh care which police colorado scroggins yes
 Bunch? Yes. Herb? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Mayor, to comply with state law, I need to read the entire new body of this ordinance. Go ahead. It is the title as read by the mayor and then here is the body of the ordinance.
 Whereas the extension of Futurall Drive has long been a part of the Master Street plan to provide additional access to approximately 150 acres of undeveloped property west of the railroad tracks east of Garland Avenue and north of Drake Street. And whereas the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad presented two agreements to the city, one for the construction and maintenance of a new railroad crossing and the second an easement agreement. Whereas pursuant to the terms of the new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement,
 The city will reimburse the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad for the full cost of the labor and materials for installation of the crossing signals, panels, and opportune attendances necessary for a fully operational crossing, which is estimated to be $519,179.14. The city agrees to close the existing unimproved crossing at Jocelyn Lane and Greg Avenue.
 The city will pay a yearly maintenance fee of $7,500, increasing by 2.5% per annum or by the yearly increase in the Consumer Price Index, whichever is greater, for basic maintenance and wear and tear. And the city and the Arkansas and Missouri Railroad agree to equally share the cost of repairs or major maintenance.
 And whereas the easement agreement establishes the terms of the city's perpetual use of the Arkansas-Missouri railroad property for the crossing, including a requirement that the city maintain an insurance policy in the amount of $15 million.
 and whereas it is not feasible or practical to competitively bid such a project because the land over which the railroad out which the crossing is proposed is owned and controlled by the arkansas missouri railroad which has the sole power to authorize construct new crossings and whereas the arkansas missouri railroad has requested an amendment
 to the railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement for the new crossing at Shiloh Drive and Gregg Avenue, which was authorized by Ordinance 6348 on August 18, 2020, to change the maintenance fee adjustment from 2% per year to 2.5% per year or the annual increase in the Consumer Price Index, whichever is greater. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign the new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement and easement agreement with the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad for a new railroad crossing and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $30,820.86
 for a total estimated project cost of $550,000. Excuse me. All right. Section two, that the city council, the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance. Section three, execution of these agreements shall be authorized upon development approval of a preliminary plan for large-scale development for the first phase of development with a minimum of 100,000 square feet of commercial employment space
 with posting of a bond to secure construction of a connecting railroad to railroad crossing. Excuse me. Section 4 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign an amendment to the railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement for new crossing at Shiloh Drive and Grey Gap which was authorized by Ordinance 6348
 on August 18, 2020 to change the maintenance fee adjustment from 2% per year to 2.5% per year or the annual increase in the consumer price index, whichever is greater. Okay. Chris. Thank you, Mayor.
 First of all, I believe I've probably set a record for the amount of additional information that we provided to the Council on this. So I apologize for all of that that we've had to wade through over the past several months. It has been quite a process to go through with the railroad and
 with all of their needs and their requests. But I think we're finally there. So I think the ordinance lays out most of what I wanted to say. I did wanna make a couple of additional notes that are in there from that or not included in previous agreements
 One is the city's agreement to pursue funding and make safety improvements at the Frisco and Douglas Street crossing, which is near the university campus. As we were going through and looking at different options,
 We realize that that crossing really needs some work anyway. So we feel like that's an important project to pursue. And so we will be looking for funding and partnering with the railroad on that. The railroad also asked us to consider partnering and pursue partnering opportunities with them for other safety improvements up and down their line. There is some federal aid funding out there that's available.
 that if we help them with some matching funds, and we can actually use some of the matching funds we were already going to spend to help them pursue some additional safety improvements, which I think is a good project overall. And I think, like I said before, it really creates a partnership with the railroad that we've never had before. So I think that's an important thing.
 I also want to make it clear that the cost of this agreement is $550,000. We have some other costs that are included.
 to provide the access for the Jocelyn Lane closure. There is a driveway that we'll have to look at constructing. And again, these other safety improvements. So I just wanna make it clear, we do have some other obligations that are set up as part of this agreement, but
 as you all know this is a this is an important location important crossing to to access property that uh has some important uh development opportunities for the for the future of the city so um with that i'll answer any questions uh definitely glad to get to this point and i know it's been a long long process and uh we've uh we've worked hard on it i think we have a good agreement here okay the questions we have in the council for chris
 I just want to make sure, so from this point forward, if we want those connections, those east to west connections, we're going to have to go through this process again? Or how does that, like if we wanted to open up another street, what do we have to do for that? I understand we're trying to do this right now for development, but is that what we're looking at for the future?
 So are you talking about additional railroad crossings? Yeah, because that's what we're doing. That's why we're doing this because we're opening up another one that was going to potentially bring a lot more development and more infrastructure. Right. So, I mean, if there are other crossings, you know, future crossings, it would be the same process to develop the agreement. This is really...
 looking at just that, this one specific location. Like we've talked about before, the railroad has been interested in, you know, not increasing the number of their crossings. So that's why when we talk about adding a new one, then we've got to look at ways to mitigate that new location. So I understand the Jocelyn one is not a very heavy traffic. The Greg one, is that the one in front of the Meek's?
 The Garrett Avenue? Yes, that's the one, right, that's the one near...
 nearest to Ride Out Lumber. The Ride Out? Yeah, that one, the agreement does mention that and it mentions improvements to that at some point in the future. But there's really nothing that's requiring us to do anything at that location. It's just, we just agree that at some point if that street extends or the amount of traffic across that location increases, then it may be time to look at some crossing improvements there as well.
 Thanks for all your work on this. I'm just still trying to understand what the state is wanting. I guess it's a safety thing to have a minimized amount of crossings.
 And so that is that what your understanding is? That's what they're trying to control. How many crossings in the end of the day? Right. And it's it's the railroad. You know, they they own the railroad. They kind of have have precedence over over city street crossing locations. So that's why, you know, it's been such a difficult matter to work through that with them.
 And it's a liability. And of course they're a private company, so they do have liabilities anytime there are crossings. There are pretty big legal ramifications for them. So it's really important that we have all these kind of measures in place and the agreements in place to help protect them. Thanks again for all your work on that. What other questions do we have in the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic. Please no rude behavior. Give us your name and address, and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address us on this one?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading, correct? Is it on the second reading? I don't know. I guess we did. We've tabled it several times. It's on the second one right now? What? Okay.
 Well, we probably need to know. Well, I would say that it would be a good first reading. Yeah, I would feel a little more comfortable with that. So this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading, and what's the wish of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Yes.
 Ter? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes.
 I'm trying not to get choked up this time. In order to waive competitive bidding and authorize a new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement and an easement agreement with the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad for a new railroad crossing at Futrell Drive and Gregg Avenue, to approve a project contingency of the amount of $30,820.86, and to approve a budget adjustment for the estimated total project cost of $550,000.
 This is on the second reading. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I second. Bill Nelson, second to go to the third and final reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Petty. I think I passed. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and authorize a new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement and an easement agreement with the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad for a new railroad crossing at Futrell Drive and Gregg Avenue to approve a project contingency in the amount of $30,820.86 and to approve a budget adjustment for the estimated total project cost of $550,000.
 Any final comments from the council? Well, I would like to say I really appreciate Chris Brown's work on this. We've worked on this, I don't know, how long, Chris? Close to two years? Probably. We've been talking about it at least that long. Yeah, I know the initial presentation to the Transportation Committee was a little over a year ago, but we've definitely been talking about it for at least two years before that in various forms. Yep.
 Chris, we have a partnership now that we never had before. I didn't know we were actually ever going to get that. But we went to a few rounds of meetings. But this is really going to open up an area. I know that the hospital is interested in that particular area. There's a lot of development going to go in, and it's really going to be a big plus for us.
 So thank you all for your patience. And Chris, I want to thank you again for all your work on this. All right. Kara, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. All right. Thank you, council, very, very much.
 all right number two yes an ordinance to approve a contract with the bank of federal gray house federal depot llc and possibly ted belden to purchase about one half acre in the depot bank lot for 350 000 to approve a lease to own arrangement with gray house for the two acre lot on the north end of point two acres i'm sorry i'm sorry 0.2 acres
 lot on the north end of the Civic Plaza to agree to convey to Gray House the ownership of about 14,000 square feet of the bottom floor of the city's public parking deck and other items and to pass an emergency clause. That's on the first. This is on the first reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading on this. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. In order to approve a contract with the Bank of Fayetteville, Greg House...
 Fayetteville Depot LLC, and possibly Ted Belden, to purchase about one-half acre in the depot and bank lot for $350,000 to approve a lease-to-own arrangement with Greg House for the .2-acre lot on the north end of the Civic Plaza to agree to convey to Greg House the ownership of about 14,000 square feet of the bottom floor of the city's public parking deck and other items and to pass an emergency clause.
 Okay, Susan. Thank you, Mayor.
 You know, just as the last item demonstrated that we could have a big win with a lot of patience and persistence, I think that that is true to say of this relationship that we're trying to establish for our public private partnership downtown. And I'm really looking forward to continuing to work on this. My enthusiasm has not waned one iota. And I do believe that we can achieve a fair contract.
 We still have a very viable placemaking downtown redevelopment project, and we are proceeding. We're asking for a little bit more time. Kit and the administration needs a little bit more time.
 so that we can make sure we have clarity for all parties' perspectives. And just as a reminder, you know, this subject has been on the table for a while. We have been working at Wade, as you know, with the architects and the engineers, and then with our development partners. And this...
 particular project we've been working on under your direction since last January, I believe. So again, that patience and persistence and a little faith and a lot of
 A lot of articulation about contractual terms so that we can have the clarity we all expect to have. So to that end, I just want to say I do think we're getting there and I appreciate Kit's work. Sterling Hamilton had asked to present the developer and the city's.
 relationship with that development project as we work together with Wade and Kit and myself. So Sterling if you're on if you could go ahead and light up your screen. I thought Kit was going to. I thought Kit said we were just gonna whatever go ahead. Go ahead. Well I'm saying report that we haven't quite gotten to the finished product yet. I had hoped that we would get this done by December 15th. Time is running
 However, I have talked with Paul Becker, our finance director, and Gordon Wilburn, our bond counsel. So I think that we can delay this to the next meeting and still be able to fulfill our requirements for the bond revenue payments.
 I think there are still some outstanding issues and things that we need to do before the contract is 100% ready for your consideration and for the mayor's signature if you approve it.
 And therefore, I agree with Susan that tonight we should not be advancing this. And I don't think the contract is quite ready for signature at this point in time. I think part of the evidence for that is a letter that Sterling Hamilton sent out to you. So we're still trying to get to a total final agreement with all the ends tied up tight. And that's going to be my my.
 effort and before the next meeting that we actually get something because I would certainly like to get this finished and Get the construction of the parking deck underway, but I think it's not ready tonight to be able to do that Okay, thank you. Sterling. You're the applicant. We will give you ten minutes. Thanks. Go ahead Sterling Thanks mayor and thanks to the City Council. Thanks to kit for all this hard work on this and
 I know we're all putting gas in the engine as fast as we can. I've been encouraged recently with the amount of communication we've been getting from both the city staff and from the city attorney. I'm here representing the developers. I'd written a letter in expectation of...
 potentially having to go to a vote on an agreement tonight and it sounds like that the letter's been heard and I feel like as the development team we feel as if we have been hurt by the city and by the city attorney. We look forward to working with Kit in the next few weeks to finalize the agreement. There are a few things as Kit said that we really need to come to terms with.
 There are some specific things around costs where we are not on solid costs and who is responsible for those costs. Now, that is not a bad faith effort on anyone's part. It's just a part of the process. I think it's reasonable for the city to support and the developers to ask to be responsible.
 to have some certainty around those costs. We've been asking, we've kind of been talking about having an addenda, you know, having addenda for some of those costs. In the letter that I had sent, I had asked for some ability of the city attorney and the mayor, I think in the end, and this is something for the council to discuss, I think, to be able to
 sign off on some of the legal description, easement and cost details as they come through rather than kind of having to come back to the city council as if it were saying amendment to the contract.
 I think that's something for the wisdom of the council. And, you know, if it's debated tonight, talked about tonight, or if it's talked about when we actually get to final vote, I still think it's worth everyone's consideration. We really thank you for additional time. I wanted to point out on this call, our council.
 Jason Bramlett is with us. Jason and I have been in trenches on large transactions in the past. We have a whole lot of faith in his ability to be responsive, courteous, as well as
 in the process of drafting the final contract. So if there are any questions from the council, we have Jason with us as well. I thank you guys for your time. I don't think we need the 10 minutes. If you have any questions for any of our team, we're all on the call. Thanks a lot guys. Okay, what questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicants or the city attorney? Mayor, I have a question.
 Chief of Staff Susan, I heard that you said that you were still really excited about the deal and enthusiastic about how much progress had been made. And I feel the same way. I remember how I felt when this was first presented and how that changed and became much more enthusiastic. I think this has gotten so much of what the city set out to accomplish. And I'm curious from your perspective, how much do we really have left to work out? How close to the finish line are we?
 You know, we've talked about this a lot. It's a little bit ironic when you look at the next item on the agenda that we continue to postpone until we have the...
 contractual terms in place there. It's a chicken and egg thing. There's not a lot. We're trying to get those contractual terms based on the cost and the architectural drawings, and then we can apportion the amount of obligation by each party. And that's the clarity that we're all seeking. And, you know, that's really my easy answer. So
 That seems like an easy solution. How much is it going to cost and who's going to pay for what? But that is where we are. So I think just a little bit more time digging into that. And I know Wade can elaborate more if you have other questions about how we get to those final costs. Sure. Yeah. So the next Olson Amendment can actually happen after this contract is approved and signed.
 but that amendment does include getting to the end as far as the drawings go. That'll get us to the construction drawings at which NAB holds, our construction manager, can then get us a guaranteed maximum price. I think everybody's comfortable with getting the guaranteed maximum price before we just get too far down the road and we hope that we can have that by late February, early March.
 It sounds like there's just one more thing to work out on this contract. At least this cost allocation is the only thing anybody is mentioning so far. And I guess I would just like to register, speaking for myself, and I get the sense from past statements of other council members, maybe some others feel the same way. I mean, we may not have infinite patience.
 But the project has made such substantial progress. From my perspective, it sure would be a shame for this deal to fall apart because we were trying to be too hasty at the very end of it. And I just want to make sure that tonight I make plain that for my part, if we need to support it with a modest amount of more time.
 or even some strategic outside expertise as we did at the beginning of the project, it seems like it would be worthwhile if we really are as close to the end as it seems. And I don't think I would have advocated like this at the beginning whenever this was first presented, but now with the addition of the mobility hub and the timelines that are proposing to be memorialized,
 both with in terms of the new development and in terms of the deck. And the other things have been memorialized. It's gotten to a point where I do feel comfortable advocating for that. So if we need to bring in more resources, whether that's expertise or a modest amount of more time to hammer it out, I'm here to support it. Thank you. Thank you. One of the questions we have.
 let's take a little public comment um everybody gets one turn to speak five minute duration broken segments of three and two minutes please don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member stay on the topic which is the the net contract please no rude behavior let's have your name and address and federal residents will speak first who would like to address the council tonight
 Mayor Peter Lane is first. All right. Go ahead. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi. Hello, everybody. Spend all day doing Zoom calls. You'd think I would know how to do this. Nice to be here, and happy holidays, everybody. I'm not going to speak about the contract or the cost or any of the outside elements that I think the council and everybody needs to spend time on. I just...
 I want to let you know that the Walton Arts Center Facilities Committee and the Executive Committee have met and discussed this project and had a presentation from Wade, from Peter Neergaarden to really understand where there are pieces to this project and where it is. And I would just want to let you know that on behalf of the entire Walton Arts Center
 We're very supportive of the fact that the deck is really very close. It satisfies the proximity parking requirement that we had. It also has a design that I think checks a lot of boxes. With two elevators, multiple ways in and or out.
 built so that it can be expanded into the future and that it satisfies 300 cars is terrific. The city is continuing to listen to constituents including the Walton Arts Center around concerns around what that traffic flow is going to look like when all those cars dump on the West Avenue as well as
 what the parking management, the event management systems that are going to go in and have been in dialogue with members of our team. And so I think we're excited about where this is all going. The idea of the Civic Plaza being at the front door of the Walton Arts Center with the public-private partnership, I think is a really forward-looking way of dealing with this.
 And so I think at this point, again, we don't know the details and the level of concerns that both the developers and the city have, and we're not weighing in on that. We just, I think the project to Matthew's point has evolved quite a bit with the beginning of the cultural arts quarter, you know, shovels in the ground already. We're excited to see where this is going to go, but our concerns around the deck have really been, you know,
 handled well and I think we're getting a product that I think everybody can live with and so thumbs up on our end and I just want to thank everybody for the time and effort they put into it it means a lot I think to our citizens but also to all the guests and patrons that come downtown to Walnut Center so thank you thank you who else would like to address this Anna Leary Kelly okay go ahead
 Good evening. I'd just like to re- or my name's Anna-Larry Kelly. I live at 220 East Lafayette Street. I'm resident of Fayetteville as well as the chair of the Walton Arts Center Council. I wanted to reiterate what Peter just mentioned that I have been very heartened by the development of this project, very enthusiastic about where it's headed.
 and really just want to express appreciation to the city for their openness to listening to concerns from the Walton Arts Center and to coming back with new ideas and helping us get very comfortable with the direction of the project. So I look forward to more conversations and learning more about it in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council then.
 Do we have any discussion tonight? I think we've heard from the staff and the city attorney and the applicants. They would like to leave it here. Mayor? Yes. I'd like to make a second to Council Member Petty's comment.
 support for any resources to get the details finalized. Whatever we need to do to make sure we feel like the public private partnership is optimal for the city and the citizens and the people, you know, Ted and
 Greg, so whatever we need there, whatever resources Kit needs or Susan or anyone would support to make sure that we get the final details well handled. So I would support that as well. Thanks. Great. Thank you, son. Anything else? Mayor, I have one brief thing to add. Sure.
 I was reminded today in a citizen email about the report from the ULI-led working group back in March, in which they had a number of recommendations. And one of those was to engage an independent agency or person or council to review the final contract development, especially with respect to best practices that
 other cities may have learned in a little bit harder way than maybe we would like to learn them. Unless there's widespread disagreement about that on the council, it seems like this is the time if we haven't already to engage that kind of expertise for a final review. It seems like that's the kind of thing that could be done quickly given that 95% or 99% of the work has already been drafted.
 So, Councilmember Petty, you're right. We did have that recommendation from the ULI workshop and they offered their resources. We can look further at that if that is the wishes of the mayor and the council. It certainly seems wise to me. It would be my wish. Thank you.
 If I could make a comment, just to add on to Matthew's comment. There were a number of other recommendations in there, and I think those should be investigated as well, if the council and the mayor would agree to those recommendations.
 It might not be that everybody has at their command that report, so I'll need to redistribute that so that we can talk about that further, Teresa. So I'll make sure and get that out the door to everyone. And maybe you all could help us prioritize if there are items in those recommendations. I think the recommendations weren't there necessarily that we needed to follow all of them, but there might be some that would lead us to the best practice product that we want. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, anything else? All right, we'll leave it right here then. All right, let's go on to number three, a resolution to approve amendment number two to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Olson Incorporated presented to RFQ 19-01 in the amount of $154,900 for the remaining architectural services related to the replacement parking deck
 for the cultural arts corridor project and to approve a budget adjustment this is 2019 cultural arts corridor bond project and this needs to be tabled to the january meeting so i can follow the contract move we table we table this to the until the january meeting second okay we have a motion and a second to table until the january what is that date on that see what day is that first meeting in january okay thank you
 All right. Any discussion on that? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Med? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Teddy? Yes.
 Okay. Thank you all. Number four, the ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-014, located southeast of I-49 in Weddington Drive for approximately 112.85 acres. From RSF4, residential single-family, four-units breaker, RMF24, residential multi-family, 24-units breaker, RO, residential office, and C2, thoroughfare commercial to UT,
 Urban Thoroughfare and CES Community Services. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. I move we go to the second reading. I got you. Okay. Seconds. We have a motion to say to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Caravans, please call the roll. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Terk? Yes. Menth? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-014, located southeast of I-49 and Weddington Drive, for approximately 112.85 acres, from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre, RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre, RO residential office, and C2 thoroughfare commercial, to UT urban thoroughfare and CS community services.
 Okay, Garner, what do you have? Good evening, Mayor and Council. I don't have anything to add at this time. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Paula Maranoni, the applicant, I believe is present. And she did tell me this afternoon she wanted to talk to you. Okay. All right, the applicant would like to speak to the council. We have 10 minutes.
 Yes, thank you. This is Paula Maranoni. And I wanted to go over a few things that people have raised as possible concerns or issues. And first of all, from going through the Planning Commission and some of the City Council feedback and some of the residents have said that we need to do a PZD.
 And we can't do a PZD, don't plan on doing a PZD. And so wanted to just pretty much bring that to your attention. And I also wanted to bring up, I've been around a long time and gone to a lot of meetings and heard a lot of comment and such. And about 20 years ago, I remember Tim Conklin introduced the new PZD process.
 And he was really excited about it because he said, you'll be able to roll all the permits and the design and the zoning and everything into one. And he bragged that you'd be able to get a project through in two to three months. So before that, it was a planned unit development. And so the PZD was supposedly an improvement to that.
 I bring that to your attention because it seems to me that it has gotten off course over the years and now everybody wants to see a PZD. When you're asking for just plain old zoning, that's not something that the city can require. Someone has the right to ask for basic zoning on their property.
 So what we've done is we've asked for what the city, we thought the city wanted to see. I have also participated for about 25 years in all the city's future land use plans. I don't remember exactly what the first one was, but they're further out than what the year is. The first one I really remember was 2015.
 probably 2020. I remember 2025 because that's the one where the consultants put big bullseyes on major properties. They put one on ours and said that this needs to be a property that addresses the region. It's an important property. So in the 2040 plan,
 That's what we're trying to follow. And when people would call me and ask about our property, I would send them the link to the city's 2030 plan then and say, here's what the city's looking for, here's what we're going by. And so all this was going on behind the scenes before anything ever came to the city.
 So we have always gone by the future land use plan as far as a guiding principle of what we're supposed to be doing. Then also in recent years, the council's put a lot of effort into promoting farm based zoning and housing.
 It's something that I think will make a difference as far as bringing some continuity to projects and some connectivity and all those things that you look for in the foreign-based zoning. So that's why we're going for the UT and the CS.
 Some of the things that citizens have brought up is the traffic on Weddington. So I wanted to clarify in the most recent traffic counts on Weddington, east of I-49, the average daily traffic count is 25,000 cars. West of I-49 on Weddington, it's 37,000 cars.
 So there's a 50% increase in traffic about as you go from the east side to the west side. And as I said last meeting, that I would challenge anyone to find a property in northwest Arkansas that can move traffic better than this property.
 mainly because you have the double lane access road that goes to a dedicated stoplight. And I told you how I watched Cross Church get a thousand people. Yeah, a thousand people in, a thousand people out in 30 minutes. And they did that on the hour all morning long that first weekend they were open. And I couldn't believe it. And it was really impressive. So.
 Also, if traffic on Weddington is an issue, then we should have priority because we're infill and west of I-49 is sprawl. So if ours is not treated as priority for infill, then the city really needs to look at not approving anything more west of I-49.
 Also, people brought up the traffic to the east. In the future land use plans, in the Master Street Plan, it has been made very clear, and in projects we have brought forward before, made very clear that we have to have a major connection to the east.
 So if we have to have a major connection to the east, then it seems that it should not be held against us because we have a major connection to the east in the plans. So that pretty much cancels itself out. Also, people have brought up that it's so pretty. It's just this natural, gorgeous property, highly visible, you know, all of this. Well, no.
 That would seem that if someone keeps their property beautiful, as our family has this property over the years, that it will be held against them. And when, in fact, they do want to develop it, people will say, no, you can't develop it. It needs to be a park. Our family wants to develop this property.
 We have a right to develop our property and ask for reasonable zoning. The city staff has said this is reasonable. The planning commission has said it is reasonable. Also, I bring up the consistency that in the 2040 plan in your ordinances, and the reason you have this is so that you can treat everybody fairly. And I bring up consistency.
 the minutes from the City Council meeting July 5th 2016 where you approved direct farms 185 acres to urban thoroughfare and I would read it to you but it's really not necessary if I read it it would take a minute and a half it's basically
 The city attorney read the ordinance. Jeremy Pate gave a brief description. The owner said he would appreciate your support. An alderman makes it go to the second reading. Kit Williams reads the ordinance. It goes to the third and final reading and passes unanimously, and that was new business. So we hope that you will treat us the same way that you have treated
 treated other people who have asked for this. And in this situation, this is not a housing development where it would be much easier to do a PZD because you just got a bunch of houses lined up. We don't know who's coming. You've seen how long it's taken for Drake Farms to get anything going. It's been four years and they're just now starting to build.
 So we ask for your support on this. We appreciate it. And we're looking forward to this being a major, major energy environment for Fayetteville and appreciate your support. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the applicant or the staff?
 okay let's take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak five minute duration broke broke into uh three and two segments uh don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member please stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first who would like to address us tonight on this laura florick okay go ahead
 Hi, everyone. Can you hear me? Yes. Great. Thank you so much for allowing me time to speak on this issue. My name is Laura Floric, and I live at 3068 North Bentley Ridge. I'm the Secretary of the Board at Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas, which is Fayetteville's only synagogue. And I've been asked by Temple Shalom's board to read a letter that was sent to each council member earlier this week, but has been updated.
 And I know there are other community members that plan to speak on this as well. So many thanks to them for their support.
 To the members of the Fayetteville City Council, Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas has recently become alarmed by the rezoning petition in reference to Maranoni Farm and the Master Street plan during the last council meeting, which presents the possibility of continuation of Cleveland adjacent to our parking lot. The second option Lincoln would drive to the south of our property is further away but equally worrisome.
 To be clear, we at Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas strongly oppose this effort. Not only do we have concerns with the increased traffic flow this would bring to our peaceful and quiet neighborhood, but we are also greatly concerned about the increased exposure this would bring to our Jewish temple, putting us at an increased risk of anti-Semitism.
 The state of Arkansas has the third lowest Jewish population in the United States and is a state without hate crime laws, which is especially concerning given the rise of anti-Semitism both nationally and more locally.
 Because Temple Shalom North of Arkansas is the only Jewish institution in Fayetteville, we already feel exposed as a community. Increased traffic means increased visibility, which puts our small community at increased risk. We know the city believes in action steps oriented towards a reduction in antisemitism, and we hope you will consider this as an imperative step toward that goal.
 With this as background, our board representing the members of Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas and the larger Jewish community unanimously voted on the 9th of December in favor of requesting that the city reconsider this petition and not rezone the property near Temple Shalom. With respect, the Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas Board. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Lisa Orton. Go ahead.
 Hello, I'm Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Hossel Road in Fayetteville, and I am opposed to this rezoning request. And the reasons are, one, I believe it is too dense residentially and commercially for the surrounding neighborhoods and natural areas.
 The rezoning requested is a perfect example of being totally incompatible to the area. It won't look like the neighborhoods on the east and southeast, nor the natural area and urban forests on the south.
 Two, its traffic would dramatically increase through the residential neighborhoods on the east and southeast, making it unbearable for these low density neighborhoods and narrow hilly roads. Plus, for those in West Fayetteville, it would strain even more the 49 Weddington intersection and the traffic issues there.
 Number three, the large increase of people in traffic would increase anti-Semitic vandalism at Temple Shalom, who purposely chose this quiet, low-density neighborhood to build their temple there.
 to diminish that sort of thing. Number four, I believe the pulse of Fayetteville is really toward more controlled growth so that Fayetteville's trees, urban forests, historical places, Native American sites, and neighborhoods do not suffer. Whether a person or family buys or rents in an apartment complex neighborhood, townhouse development neighborhood, single-family home,
 neighborhood. Most want trees, little traffic, quiet, safety to live and raise their children and retire. Some people want to live downtown or in high density residential and commercial neighborhoods, but I believe most do not.
 And looking at the letters, last time I looked at the number of letters written to the city and the people who spoke last time about this Maranoni rezoning request. There were two organizations and five individuals for the rezoning request. And there were two organizations or groups and 31 individuals against this rezoning request. So that's six times more individuals were against this.
 Joetta Browning- The rezoning then for it and this proportion could be demonstrating the pulse of residents in Fayetteville in general. Joetta Browning- And so therefore, I believe the city should pay more attention to what residents want in their neighborhoods and surrounding neighborhoods and urban forests.
 So for all these reasons, I am opposed to this rezoning request. And I believe a studied and planned out PZD that surrounding residents in Temple Shalom can be happy with would be more appropriate. And I believe the Maranoni family could still make a lot of money with such a PZD. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? William Feldman. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Can you hear me? Yes. Oh, thank you. My name is William Feldman. I live at 16 North Sang Avenue in Fayetteville, and I'd like to speak in opposition to the zoning request. And I fear some of the things I've said have already been said, so I'll try to be very brief. I have several concerns, and the first concern is, in general, the loss of our
 significant green areas that are very close to the city and a precious resource. Unfortunately, once those green areas are gone, we can't bring them back. In particular, we see the development of Markham Hill on one side and the property in question here on the other side. My second concern is traffic, which has been mentioned previously.
 both the Weddington and 49 intersection is a concern, but closer to where I live on saying, uh, traffic in that area is a problem and it would appear that it would connect with, uh, steep hills, such as Cleveland Hill, which have already been a problem for the city and for that neighborhood. So that traffic concern in that area, I think is a serious problem. I'd like to also, uh,
 mentioned that concerns as a member of Temple Shalom. We have, of course, as one might expect, when not during the pandemic, but at other times, children coming and going from the synagogue and playing. And the idea of traffic is really more traffic and more cars is kind of a toxic mix with children.
 One final issue I'd like to mention, and has been mentioned previously. Regretfully, we're all aware of some of the horrible crimes that have occurred against Jewish institution and Jews. And I'm hopeful that we would never face such things in Fayetteville. But we still have to remain vigilant. And the idea of a road adjacent to the temple or near the temple, another road, would make that effort, I think, more difficult. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Paul Waddell. Okay go ahead. Good evening council. I'm speaking out against the rezoning of the Marinoni property. Rezoning this property to urban thoroughfare or community services would be counterintuitive to much of what is going on in this area of Fayetteville. The Marinoni property abuts a newly designated nature preserve, Markham Hill. The
 Proposed rezoning would be putting the highest density possible right against this nature preserve. The definition of a nature preserve is an area where animals and plants are protected and that has few buildings and homes. Approving this high density rezoning would be against the true intentions of a nature preserve.
 More importantly, it would further traffic problems that Weddington already struggles with. As a candidate for Ward 4 City Council, the number one complaint I heard was about the traffic and safety on Weddington. Many complained about how difficult and unsafe it is to pull out onto Weddington Drive and about the traffic congestion on this road and near the interstate.
 It is my understanding that Weddington is a state highway and therefore the city has limited authority to make infrastructure improvements to the road. It would not make sense to approve a rezoning for a large track of land to high density if that area already struggles with traffic congestion and safety problems.
 especially when the city lacks that authority or has limited authority. This proposed rezoning could allow for traffic to be redirected towards Cleveland Street near the university, which is even more dangerous. Cleveland Street recently had a traffic related death of a good friend of mine, Ryan Renfro. His death has prompted traffic safety measures for that area. We learned at the last Ward 4 meeting
 that there will be three new speed cushions added to Cleveland Street in order to help mitigate an existing traffic safety problem. We are extremely concerned about redirecting more traffic up and down one of the steepest streets in Fayetteville, Cleveland Street.
 This 112 acre property is not some small scale rezoning. It would have significant impact and drastic changes to our area. It would be going from partly forested and pasture land where horses and cattle currently graze to an area of high density.
 Approving it would be counter to the traffic measures this area is trying to solve on Cleveland and Weddington. It's counter to the true intentions of a nature preserve. Approval of the rezoning is counter to what a majority of the neighbors want. The University Heights neighborhood is already concerned about the large-scale development of Markham Hill that has 535 new homes being built, a hotel, restaurant, and cottages, which will direct traffic up and down Markham Street and into our University Heights neighborhood.
 The neighbors surrounding the Marinoni property are rightfully concerned about the dramatic increase in traffic through our neighborhood and the city's limited ability to address significant infrastructure improvements on Weddington. More importantly, we are concerned about the lack of planning to address these safety concerns. The council should not approve this rezoning without being more informed about the planned development or having a PCD.
 It would be irresponsible development for Council members to approve this high density rezoning in this unique area of Fayetteville without knowing how we are integrating the new development with the existing neighborhoods and infrastructure. We should be planning to address these concerns on the front end, not after the rezoning has already been approved.
 Denying this rezoning would also be in line with some of the city's gouting principles, which is naturally beautiful city, ecosystem preservation, greater ease of transportation mobility, and safe city in which to live in. It'd be great if we could see a rezoning similar to Underwood Park, where a 600-unit complex was granted, but Fayetteville also gained a 65-acre public green space.
 At the beginning of this meeting we honored council members for their hard work and their dedication to Lewis Fields, Underwood Park, and Kessler Park. We should be striving to balance the growth of Fayetteville with public green space. I'd ask the City Council to disapprove or vote against this specific rezoning request. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Robert Leiner. Go ahead.
 This is Virginia Liner, who owns the property at 2129 West Lawrence Circle with my husband. He's right next to me. Y'all already had the letter that we sent to the planning council, but I've got other concerns as I've heard other people talk over the last couple of weeks. Last meeting, you said that the city council would not
 do the eminent domain to connect Cleveland to the Marignone property that they would either have to purchase it or whoever buys that property would have to purchase that land which probably wouldn't want to be sold. But our house backs up to the Marignone property, our backyard. But also my concern is I've heard that Maple Street
 was considered to be opened up as an exit out of the Marinoni property. And I'm real concerned about that because not only are we going to get it in the back, we're going to get it on the side too. So, um,
 I just want to say we're against this rezoning plan. And as Mrs. Maranoni said herself, we don't know what's coming. And that's the reason why we're against it. It's just if you pass it, there's no telling what we're going to get right next to our backyard or on the side, Maple side. So I would like to know if y'all are considering opening up Maple Street because I'm totally against that too.
 Thank you so much for letting me talk. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Ed Baker. Go ahead. Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Okay, Ed Baker, 2131 Lawrence Circle. Been here in this property for 20 years. Our biggest concern is the 22-acre community services portion, which is right behind our house, as Ms. Liner just mentioned.
 And then our other concern is traffic being diverted over here. There's already enough craziness on saying with with people speeding and passing cars and no passing zones. And we're afraid of more increased traffic here. If Maples opened up or if Lindenwood is created or Cleveland's extent that either either or.
 is going to lead to increased traffic. We're concerned about that. We're already going to have increased traffic from Markham Hill being developed. And again, just like the state that we would...
 We are against this rezoning. We would appreciate it if the council would vote against it. Again, just reiterate what Ms. Liner said. Ms. Maranoni just said we don't know what's going to be there. And that's our big concern because, again, it's right in our backyard. One more concern I have is drainage issues. There's a creek that comes off of Markham Hill that runs north-south, runs from south to the north behind our house.
 There's another creek directly behind our house, Wet Weather Creek, that comes in from the Marignone property into that north-south creek. And so I'm worried about possible drainage flooding issues depending on what's built back there and how it's built. So again, please ask for your vote against this property or rezoning and appreciate the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Aaron Cohen. Go ahead. Can you hear me?
 Yes. Hi, I'm Erin Cohen. Thank you, Mayor and City Council. I live at 2215 North 11 Drive. I have been a resident of Fayetteville for more than 20 years, and I'm speaking as a community member and as the Vice President of the Board for Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas. I want to
 The Temple Shalom of Northwest Arkansas Board strongly opposes the rezoning plan currently being discussed. This plan will increase traffic in the peaceful, quiet, and wooded neighborhood. Additionally, the plan contains options that could continue a road adjacent to our Temple Shalom parking lot or just a bit further to the south, both of which would put Temple Shalom at increased visibility to all types of traffic.
 This increased exposure could be detrimental to the safety and security of Temple Shalom, our members, and the larger Jewish community that frequently joins us at our temple. During non-COVID times, this includes in-person gatherings of weekly religious services, community get-togethers, meetings of all types.
 special events, holiday services and celebrations, and religious school for students, parents, and teachers each week. Safety and security have always been a high point of concern for Jewish organizations, unfortunately.
 And in recent years, our safety has been threatened even more. In fact, anti-Semitic acts, including acts of vandalism, harassment, and assault, have increased 12% in the U.S. since 2018, putting us at an even greater risk.
 We at Temple Shalom are asking the city council and the mayor to reconsider supporting the rezoning of this property for the sake of safety and security for Temple Shalom and our Northwest Arkansas Jewish community. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I don't see anybody else, Mayor. Okay. Will? I just, Mayor, I just got a text from Bruce and Laura. Will, please.
 Wilkins and he could not get through he would like for me to read this short text if that's loud okay we live at 230 north summit avenue right around the curve from the property we drive by there daily and I can tell you summit and the top of Dixon can't handle heavy traffic the pavement is narrow and the drainage is poor there is an open ditch on one side of the road and no sidewalk
 The curve where Dixon becomes Summit is so narrow that two cars can barely meet safely. Of course, anyone walking down the street, including the five or six children that live on Summit, are in danger when one car passes and two cars meeting make walking a real challenge.
 It is my understanding that the proposed residences will be accessed from the back right where Dixon and Summit meet. If this is the case, I would think that major infrastructure improvements would be required to make this safe and viable. Thanks for your consideration. Bruce and Laura Wilkins, 230 North Summit Avenue.
 I'm not endorsing this or anything. I'm just saying this is what was sent to me. Council Member Kenyon, that was for the next item, the item that we just concluded. Oh, of course. Well, I just got it and it made me so excited. I got ahead of the curve. Of course. Okay. Well, we got it. If y'all will remember it, I won't read it again. Okay. Thanks. Thanks, Mark. I've got a question for staff. Sure.
 How close is this rezoning to the temple? Approximately between an eighth and a quarter of a mile. Okay. Is there concern that traffic will go down the road, not specifically of the rezone? Council member, presently there is no connection. I think the residents are speaking to a master plan
 that does illustrate connectivity to the east. Okay. I absolutely think that Weddington, especially east of I-49, can handle some more density. I would hate to see all the stuff that could go here go to say Double Springs and Weddington.
 You know that that's where we really start getting traffic that's bad is where people have to drive in. However, in its current form, I don't plan on supporting this. I do want to see some buffers. I want to see some more gradients of the land use.
 than what I'm seeing here and frankly, I'd rather see a PZD. This is a massive development. Some of the massive developments that are coming in similar to this, a lot of people are starting to use PZDs so that the neighborhood has a better idea of what's going on there. There's even discussion about removing
 certain uses from UT and community service and all kinds of stuff and a lot of that could just be handled by having a UT. I would be okay with UT close to Weddington but not further in and then even better would be at DCT. So thank you. I have a question for staff. So Garner in our current
 zoning requirements. Does there have to be an outlet to the east? I mean, this is a very large amount of property. As you've heard from many neighbors,
 adding more traffic to the east on saying and up Cleveland and possibly on Maple Street would really impact these law these old historic neighborhoods and existing residents is that or is that a requirement. No, it's not a requirement. My
 take on this master plan designation that has been carried from plan to plan, I think since at least 2025 plan is that it's one of the three remaining parcels that has outstanding regional access
 and has potential and actually the improvements are being made to allow for easy connection to I-49. It also has good Fayetteville connectivity. I understand the issues the residents are addressing about
 congestion, but it certainly has good arterial street access to all of Fayetteville via the 49 and Weddington. My reading of the master plan is the general policy of neighborhood connectivity, the illustration of the connections to the east.
 I think from a transportation standpoint, in terms of the community transportation and the regional transportation, it can be accommodated through Weddington and I-49.
 okay i have a second follow-up question so the um the street off to the west of this property uh is that chilo i believe um but it's one way it's only a one way going north and my understanding from previous conversations is that um
 the state was reluctant to have it go two ways. Is that correct? I believe that's correct. I believe that's correct. So that really limits in some way much of the traffic movement that's possible.
 Is there some thought or consideration of going back and discussing that with the state that they could change their mind or what do they need to change their mind to make that a two-way rather than a one-way access? That's an excellent question. It's a complicated process working with Department of Transportation. I think...
 They are open to suggestions. They want to go through their normal process of doing their traffic studies and their regional convenience and so forth. If Chris Brown is still on, he might have a more detailed response to what it would take to reconsider that.
 Yes, I'm here. So in order to make the interchange itself work, that has to be a one-way segment there as you come into the interchange. We've had some brief conversations with RDoD about kind of between the two interchanges, is there a way you could make a certain section of that frontage road be two-way?
 And their initial answer is no, not really. But we really haven't asked the question, I think, in detail or done the studies that we would need to do in order to really pursue that, like Garner said. So if that's something that the council really wanted to make a priority, then we would need to get some consultant help to study that. I think the Persimmon Crossing
 would kind of be part of that and you know how all those things would fit together so I think it's it would be difficult I think to to get that approved but I don't think it's out of the question and if we were to undertake or authorize such a study including the persimmon overpass how long would that take
 Well, the study itself, you know, would take maybe six months or something like that. But working with R.DOT and trying to go back and forth with them could take much longer than that. It just really kind of depends on how engaged we can get them to be. Sometimes it takes a long time to get reviews back for that kind of question. So, I mean, it would be a matter of...
 a year or multiple years, I think, to get something sorted out. It would take a while. Okay, thank you. Mayor, if I could give some historical context to this too. I was chairman of the City Council Street Committee when they changed these roads from two-way to one-way. We opposed that very unsuccessfully. So I will defer to Chris on the current situation, but I know in the 90s, we didn't want them to be one-way. And yet, guess what? They are one-way.
 What else do we have? Mayor, I'll give a little bit of my feedback on this. And I know that development here is inevitable, and I hope that we get good development here. I share a lot of the same concerns that neighbors do in that the traffic plan is underdeveloped. I don't necessarily blame the developer for that because they've
 They've drawn in the streets as our master street plan has it, and that's about it. And this, I think, goes to something I've said dozens of times by now, and that's that I wish that our master street plan had local streets designated in some of these large greenfield areas so that we could tell neighbors what we expect their neighborhood streets to look like. Because I think the answer to this.
 From a traffic standpoint, while I hear the concern is no new connections, I think the solution to traffic in an area like this is more connections. If we funnel everybody to Weddington, then we will create the traffic situation that we're afraid of. If we have a...
 dense web of intersections where people have many choices for how they get in and out, then no one point will serve as that single most miserable access area. And I think that we would be well served here in particular with a more detailed master plan for our local streets that we could use as a framework for these sorts of rezoning so that
 property owners don't have to go get a PZD to give us the sort of peace of mind that we need for the adjoining neighborhoods. Okay. All right. Anything else? I assume we will probably be... What's the wish list to council? Do you all want to leave it here on this reading? Come back and look at it again in a couple weeks or whenever. I agree with that. Okay. Okay. Seems like there's quite a bit of discussion going on, so...
 if it's agreeable to the council unless somebody just does not agree. And then we'll leave it right here and we'll move on to the next item. Have we done a site visit? I don't believe we have. I don't believe, Councilmember, that you have done one. Okay. I just kind of want to see what the council thinks about an actual site visit of this. This is one of the last massive properties that are kind of left to develop.
 I would be in favor of that. I mean, I think anytime we look at a property, especially one this big, it's always nice to go put boots on the ground and take a look at it. I agree. Okay, we will set up a site. And we may want to invite the incoming members as well. Okay, yep, we can do that. Thank you. You're very welcome. All right, then we'll leave this one right here. We'll move on to number five.
 An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 20-018 located at 310 and 325 North Fletcher Avenue for approximately 0.92 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. This was left on the first reading. I can entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Do we have a second to go to the second reading?
 Second. Okay. Did you get? Okay. All right we have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen would you please call it up. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-018, located at 310 and 325 North Fletcher Avenue, for approximately 0.92 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre.
 Okay. Uh, Mark, anything new? Uh, Mayor, no, I don't have anything new to, uh, uh, discuss with you. Uh, Allison Twinlan is, uh, representing the applicant, and she has expressed a desire to do an additional presentation. Okay. Uh, the applicant has 10 minutes. So, Allie, would you like to address the council? Yes, thank you.
 I showed a presentation two weeks ago about the impact that lane use decisions like this reason request have on our ability to meet our growing housing shortage and demographic mismatch. And I'm happy to answer any further questions you all may have about that data. As a favorable housing and code advocate, I'm always happy to deep deep dive into the data. But I think a better brief focus for me time this evening is talking to you about the commitment
 HAB-Masyn Moyer- Of the design of a development team of this project in downtown Fayetteville and in the historic districts specifically okay what questions do we have from the Council for the staff of the African or do you have more i'm sorry. HAB-Masyn Moyer- i'm sorry I had a little bit more. HAB-Masyn Moyer- Sorry, that first slide transition on screen share a little bit slip.
 First and foremost, our team works towards the goals, these goals in our city every day. We believe in infill that people, neighbors included, like. And this property is for sale. The two homes on it are in very poor condition. They're not architecturally compelling by most measures, and they've been the subject of a staggering number of police call outs in the last 12 months alone.
 This property will be redeveloped in some manner, in all likelihood. Without a rezoning, the most likely development scenario is three large homes compliant with RSF4, likely to justify fewer homes, some with many bedrooms, potentially rented by the bed to accommodate this high lane cost downtown. Parking, tree preservation, and stormwater codes may be less stringent in that scenario than with this rezoning.
 We're asking for a rezone because we think it's the most responsible use of the property for our city and for our community. We're not only residents of this neighborhood, we've worked for years primarily in this specific neighborhood. Each yellow dot here represents a project that our team has completed in downtown Fayetteville, hopefully many of which you know and like. Our team has built many new infill homes at a wide variety of price points, but a consistently high architectural quality.
 We've turned vacant buildings into thriving businesses. If you've enjoyed the view on the rooftop of Feed and Folly or enjoyed a beer on the porch of the New Ozark Natural Foods, you've seen our commitment to making the city a thriving, locally driven place.
 We've done a number of missing middle housing renovations keeping those units in the city's housing stock. We've restored historic homes, both grand and small. We've incorporated smart stormwater solutions like rain barrels, native landscaping, and porches with green roofs. We've worked with the city on code changes, technical advisory committees, and large-scale improvements to city infrastructure, most recently on the cultural arts corridor, the first phases of which are under construction now. We're experts at turning Fayetteville's underutilized places into more beloved fabric of our city.
 I say all this to say this property will be redeveloped and we hope it's by us. We're committed, as our previous work has shown, to making redevelopment something that city and neighbors can be proud of. I, the developer, are here to answer any further questions you may have. Thank you. Okay. All right. Now what questions do we have from city council for the applicant or the staff? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 Five minutes duration in three and two segments. Please don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residence first. Who would like to address this tonight? Pete Searon. Go ahead.
 Hi there, it's actually Nicole Shipley. We had a, it's Pete Ciaran and Nicole Shipley. We own the property mutually at 309 North Fletcher. It's directly right across the street from the two lots that are being rezoned. My, I'm not against the rezoning necessarily. My main concern is just the
 the city sewage line or the city water. It has overflowed multiple times where it's proven that it cannot sustain the water flow off of Mount Sequoia. And we just happen to be the one that catches some of it. We've made our own additions to our property and that's
 It can hold up right now, but I'm really concerned about eight properties going in where two houses are currently just as long as there's something in the planning to say that guarantees that the water flow will be addressed and thoroughly addressed and I don't know, maybe like the top.
 priority. I do agree that the two houses there, we've watched a lot of the stuff go down and it was extremely sad. So yeah, I mean, it will be developed and glad to see it being redeveloped. Just if there could be some sort of asterisk to the water flow is the main concern. And that's it. Thank you.
 Okay, I can say that I think Chris Brown looked into the drainage issues on that particular piece of property. He reported last time. Chris, if you could go ahead and say what you discovered. Sure. Yeah, the...
 What we have historically seen in requests that we've had for services up there have been more drainage that comes down Summit kind of to the south of this property. We really have not heard of any major issues with flooding or anything adjacent to this property. The land does kind of fall off from
 from east to west, obviously. So if and when this property develops, there will need to be some things done. But I think it's certainly doable with the infrastructure that's in place. Am I allowed to speak again? No.
 You have five minutes. I guess I'm a bit confused because maybe there is some issues from the south, but the mountain runs east to west as far as like elevation. It completely would go into anybody to the west of the property. It's.
 It's a major issue. I've actually, I have video, if I need to send it to you, of just the drainage failing in and of itself, even before heavy, heavy rain. It's not just a south water flow issue. It is an east to west issue primarily. I would think, I mean, just with the way that the mountain elevation works. But yeah, as long as something could be really honed in there on the drainage, I would support the zoning, but.
 I appreciate y'all's time. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address? Hale Blizzard. Your hand. Hale, are you there?
 I'm sorry, can you hear me now? Yes. Yeah. Okay, thank you. Thanks for having me. Paul Blassard at 236 North Fletcher. I live right across the street from the property that's for rezoning. And I was kind of agreeing with what Nicole said. There's a lot of water that comes down between me and this property. And any more would overflood my house. I'm pretty sure about that. And several of us along the road have had difficulty with it.
 And that's an issue. I won't go into that anymore. But what I'd like to talk about a little bit is where Summit and Dixon are. Summit is a very narrow street that goes behind my house. And there's no sidewalk. And the way I understand the new plans is to put the road off of Dixon where it meets Summit, which that's a very narrow street. There's no...
 a way to control traffic there, people going up to cross and so forth. I think that would add quite a bit of congestion to that area. The other thing is, uh,
 The Summit and Dixon intersection there does not follow the original easement of the property. It cuts through the back of my land and I was, I haven't heard anyone say if they're going to correct that issue or not or make the road where it, where original easement was. That would be a concern not only for congestion but also for water flow and so forth.
 Like Nicole said a while ago, I'm not necessarily against the zoning, but I would like to see some measures taken in this way. I appreciate Chris doing some work in that regard. I'd like to see a little bit more though about the intersection if I could. That's all I've got. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address? Natalie Undenaire. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, my name is Natalie Undernear and much like everybody else that has commented so far tonight, I am directly, oh, I live at 365 North Fletcher, sorry, I got ahead of myself. Okay.
 I'm directly across the street. I'm the first after Nicole, I'm the first residential property that is not a rental unit across the street from this property. The water runoff, I could kayak down what happens coming down the hill.
 And I'm not kidding. I have videos. There is not a ditch that runs truly between my house and the rental property that is next to me. The amount of runoff water coming off of that particular piece of property needs to be addressed. And I do believe that that is why this was tabled last week.
 or last meeting. The drainage ditches don't seem to work. Actually, honestly, I would compel everybody that if it sleeps tonight, maybe try to drive down Summit to Dixon. If you're thinking about putting more traffic at the intersection of Summit and Dixon on that incline,
 I need you to remember that snow and ice happens and a lot of times those trucks don't make it up here first. And we do have some pretty decently scary intersections up here. Summit is a highly pedestrian road with no sidewalks. Fletcher itself is a highly trafficked road.
 I would also like to make comment of the two houses that were there and the several police call outs that happened there. That is a renter problem, not a house problem. Those two houses have had been rental units for years prior to that. Actually, I don't.
 They've been rental units since I bought my house 11 years ago. Last year was the first year that we had multiple scary call outs with the police and that is a renter situation, not a house rental unit situation. Yeah.
 Putting eight more potentially rental units across the street is a scary situation for everybody already living on this street With that I would like to know if anything else was said or found out about the manner in which the water is running off through this piece of property and
 Well, you have two minutes left. We can answer that, but it will eat into your time. Chris, have you want to finish up? Can you answer that? It's coming. Yes, sorry Mayor. I thought you were going to let her finish, but
 So again, yes, I understand the water flows from the top of the hill to the east down towards the west. My point was that the concentrated flow and the higher flows that we've gotten complaints about are south of this property, and the property doesn't run through this property. It's south of there at the Dixon Street intersection.
 As you go north where the development occurs, when that property is developed, there will have to be some work to make sure that the water still gets to where it needs to get. There are some design things that will have to happen. But again, I don't believe that
 any of those are going to be problematic with our current ordinances and requirements. So it really is kind of once it gets to that development process, we'll be looking at those kind of things. Okay. So how can water that is running from east to west stop running down the hill
 when there's no curbs to guide it. I think that is what the majority of those of us that are experiencing water issues, and I didn't know I needed to call the city every time I experienced water issues. Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay. Just a reminder, I jumped again a minute ago so everyone should remember what the Wilkins said. Yes. Thank you, Mark.
 Okay, I'm bringing it back to the council. What discussion do we have? What y'all want to do? Mayor, this is in the hillside overlay area, right? Yes, Council Member Kenyon, it is. So there will be constraints as they start to develop it at some point in the future to meet the requirements of the hillside ordinance. Yes.
 Yes. I do have some, you know, some acquaintances, friends there that I visit regularly, and they have a lot of runoff coming through their back lawn, and then when it goes down the street, it is pretty hefty. So, one, if there's good drainage improvements with the development, that probably would be good, but on the other hand,
 If it isn't managed, we would have more water that would be pushed into this drainage area. So I do have concerns, and I guess I've just got to think about that. I also just got a message from Jack Irwin, and he could not get through. I don't know what the problem was, but he does not support this. I guess I've become the target for messages.
 And I don't mind it. I know. All right. We will certainly give you the floor, Mark, if you need to read something. All right. What do you all want to do here, counsel? Thank you.
 I support this rezoning request. This property is going to be redeveloped. And I think the proposal on the table and the RSF 8 rezoning is absolutely appropriate for the density level that we need to see in this location, which is within walking distance of downtown and many services.
 You know, I've lived on Mount Sequoia several times and stormwater runoff is always an issue. But I think we have a responsible developer. I have faith in our hillside hilltop ordinances to help with this. And I'd really like to see to enable this project to get moving and replace these two obsolete structures with places for people to live. So I would like to see us. I guess we need to go to the third reading. Are we on the second? We're on the second reading right now.
 Yeah, then I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Eddy? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-018, located at 310 and 325 North Fletcher Avenue for approximately 0.92 acres, from RSF residential single family four units per acre to RSF eight residential single family eight units per acre. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council before we vote?
 I agree with the rezone. The water is a concern. I don't think that, you know, we talk about rough proportionality, that this should be this one developer's entire concern. But we definitely need to do something if multiple people have issues here. So I guess this would be for staff. What plans do we have for this area to alleviate some of these problems, whether this gets developed or not?
 Chris, you want to answer that? Sure. Well, again, we have done some work at the corner of Dixon, and I'm getting this information from our transportation division, who has the historical knowledge of work that they've done in the area. I guess I have to say that
 You know, the only thing that I'm aware of is the work that they've done at Dixon and Fletcher due to complaints. So these other complaints that we're hearing for folks of the north are new to me, at least. So it is something we could certainly look into. But, you know, if we don't get the feedback from citizens that there's a problem, then obviously we don't know that we need to investigate that problem. There is some.
 Piping along the east side of the road there. I don't know how adequate it is as far as pipe sizing. I think there are some inlets there that don't look like they work too well, but there are some opportunities. But I'd say it's just something we'd have to investigate and see what the issues are and what the solutions are.
 Okay, where would be the proper channel for them to submit pictures or issues so that the people listening have that opportunity? Yeah, they can certainly just email those to me. That would be fine. cbrowne at Fayetteville-ar.gov We can take it from there. Yep. In addition, Councilmember, since this is the hilltop, hillside overlay district,
 It does require a grading permit, although that's not a public process, but that's something Chris approves and can be used to make sure that it drains correctly. Thank you for the information. Okay. Anything else? I have a couple of comments. Okay.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. So, you know, I'm definitely hearing the neighbors, you know, there is also a report of concern tab on the website. And you can always also email me as well, ward1 underscore POS1 at Fayetteville-AR.gov.
 We definitely need to know about those flooding situations. And I think that the property with the rezone is going to have a lot more opportunity to address those water issues. I also know, you know, it's just right next to the, I walk in that area quite a bit. It's also right next to the, is that Mission Park?
 So it's a high traffic access area, easy to walk to the new Ozark Natural Foods for groceries. And there are apartment or I guess there are condos across the street. I do wanna make a comment about the renter situation. I'm a 30 year renter in Fayetteville, a good renter. And so I hope that we can stay positive on renters
 And, you know, the issues, you know, can hopefully be addressed in a different way than thinking that renters are bad neighbors. But I do think that increasing the amount of housing in that area is really important because it's just right in downtown. And so that'll give more people opportunity to enjoy the amenities there. So I'll be supporting this.
 I think it's really important for us to recognize that the RSF-8 zoning district that they're asking for is very similar to the historic pattern of development in the Washington Willow Historic District, which is adjacent to this site.
 So what they're looking to do is build at an intensity that would have been common and typical at the point in time when this neighborhood was developed and trying to mimic some of the most loved neighborhoods in our community.
 Additionally, this parcel is adjacent to one that is a large swath of land that's zoned for RMF, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. So, you know, I think from a compatibility point, that passes the test. Okay.
 And while I do understand there are concerns about stormwater related to the potential redevelopment of this property, if it were redeveloped at its current zoning of RSF4, it would have zero stormwater protections. So it does not behoove us to leave the zoning as existing.
 When I look at this parcel from a redevelopment proposal, I think, what do we need more here? Do we need larger homes, which is what the RSF4 will get us, or more smaller homes? And I think that the market...
 We need a lot more smaller homes, so the RSF-8 is more appropriate here. And I also want to echo what my colleague, Councilmember Gutierrez, said about renters. I think it's important to remember that the majority of the households in this city are renters.
 and let's not make assumptions or accusations about the behavior of people based on the economic situation in relationship to their housing and that renters and owners are welcome in all neighborhoods so I will be supporting this rezoning request. Any other final comments?
 I feel strongly in agreement with me. The other comments have been made, especially by council members Gutierrez and Marsh. And also, especially remarkably, notably when I wanted to remark on a comment from one of the citizens, I thought the best comment that we've heard on a rezoning in many nights, and that is that we have renter problems, not rental problems
 And I do an experiment when I interact with other cities or in large groups where I ask people if they're, to show me their hands if they're currently trying to find a roommate or a small efficiency apartment to move in. And in an audience like this one, almost no one raises their hands because you already own homes or have a stable situation. But then I ask, have you ever looked for a roommate or an efficiency apartment?
 and every hand seems to go up. I think it's something that we all have in common and that we forget sometimes. And I wanted to start with that because what I wanted to try to answer is a suggestion that homes that sell for current Fayetteville prices don't have anything to do with affordability. I think that suggestion is wrong, but the reasons that it's wrong are perhaps counterintuitive. And I wanted to try and anchor this to my own personal story
 In January, for the first time, I will no longer be the youngest person serving on the city council. And until the last election, I was the only person on the city council who was a renter. And my wife has a great job. I'm self-employed and do fine for myself. We work together to pay for everything and to raise our children. And we have what I thought was going to be a great down payment on a house.
 but we're chasing a dragon and we can't catch it. And when I hear one argument from a neighborhood on one side that these aren't affordable, so what are we even trying to do? And then I hear from other people in the same neighborhood say, these can't be cheap, they need to be expensive like our homes. First, I wonder how both those things can be true. And I've talked a little bit about that before. But more, I feel like we're missing a point here.
 Councilmember Scroggin actually is the one who illuminated this for me and I want to kind of repeat his words. It's really this simple. If you have 12 families and 10 homes, two of them are going to move out somewhere to another city, to a garage, or to a car, or maybe worse. And even if new homes are expensive, and I don't think this means we should approve every single development that walks in the door,
 But even if a new home is expensive, it's providing some relief for that demand at the top of the market. And I guarantee that if these homes are constructed, someone somewhere, maybe only a handful of people, are going to get to stay living where they are today. And to me, that means a lot. And even though the homes might be more expensive than what we remember homes selling for Fayetteville in the past,
 It still makes a big difference for people that need help today and I don't think we should ever lose sight of it. I'm proud to support the rezoning. Okay. Any other final comments from council? Yeah, I thought a lot about this and I know there is a lot, there is a runoff issue in this area because I used to live in this area and I still own a home in this area.
 You know, but since I'm pretty familiar with this particular region of Mount Sequoia and Dixon Street, I feel that this is an appropriate rezoning and appropriate request because it does kind of, if you, Sarah Marsh brought this up, if you go a little bit down to Willow or
 Sutton, you know, some of the more dense streets in the historic district, the houses are a lot closer together. There are some rentals. There's a mix of housing. There's some big giant homes and then there's some smaller homes. And I think I'm gonna be supporting this. I just think it's an area that will probably be changing in the future. And I think this is a good fit for the area. Thank you.
 Anybody else? I have one question. So since this is in the Hillside Hilltop Ordinance Area, our overlay area, if any new buildings, say it remains a SF4 were constructed, would they be required to get a grading permit or not? Yes, they would. Thank you. Anything else? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bench? Yes.
 TURK NO SMITH YES GUTIERREZ YES MARSH YES KENYAN NO PETTY YES OKAY THANK YOU ALL. ALL RIGHT NOW WE'LL MOVE TO THE ITEM THAT WAS PULLED FROM THE CONSENT WHICH WAS
 A4, resolution to approve federal police department policies 44.1.1, juvenile operations in 84.1.1, property management acquired and in custody. Chief, would you like to address this first, and then we'll see if there's any questions from the council, and then we'll get public comment.
 Certainly. Good evening, Mayor, Council.
 So you're right, you remember that the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agency, better referred to as the acronym CALEA, is our accreditation organization. And so this year they came out with some new standards and new guidelines for the Fayetteville Police Department. And for the last three meetings, last couple of months, I've been bringing forward several policies that had new guidelines and new standards in them.
 And so tonight I'm bringing forward two more policies with those amendments and one of those is juvenile operations and the other one is property management. And the changes to these were previously approved policies by our city council, so it's just the amendments and the changes are highlighted in your packets. The most significant change in our juvenile operations policy is a section that was added to provide all officers with guidance
 on non-custodial interviews. And that guidance is in accordance with our rules, criminal procedure, and also our juvenile laws as well. So the changes to our policy, our property management policy, provide for more security protocols and oversight as well. And with that, Mayor, I'll be happy to answer any questions that you may have or the council may have. Okay. Is there any questions for the chief from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minute duration and broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address it from the public? Sarah Moore. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, Sarah Moore and Ward T2 here in Fayetteville. I appreciate the council pulling us off consent to have a conversation in regard to this policy, and I appreciate Chief Reynolds giving us some background on reviewing this policy. I do believe, obviously, that there should be robust guardrails and guidelines at how we approach our community and our policing efforts.
 I just had happened to look at this prior to the meeting and I had many questions and I thought others would too. And so I just in my brief time that I had prior to this meeting started
 I reached out to a few community members and I read them the wording, particularly on number five listing investigation of juvenile offender non-custodial interview. And it states on A, an officer can conduct a non-custodial interview with a juvenile without a parent or guardian present and without giving Miranda warnings if the officer does not have probable cause to believe the juvenile committed the criminal offense he or she is being questioned about and the juvenile is not being detained.
 And so it had made me concerned as a parent about the interaction that my child would have with law enforcement. You know, my first inkling if my child at 10, 11, 12, 13 encountered law enforcement in the neighborhood and they were questioning them, the first thing would be to get the parent involved. And so this might be a policy or procedure that's in place today that already happens, but I think it's something to consider.
 to very reminiscent of, you know, when we were having the school resource officer conversation about, you know, how do we want to interact with our children and treating their behavior in a way that's appropriate towards, you know, a parent being able to redirect their child versus their behavior being potentially criminalized.
 And if you read further in the verbiage, and I won't read it word for word, it's alarming that in this non-custodial interview where they haven't been Mirandized, if they share information that then Mirandized
 gives the officer the potential that they think they were involved in something that becomes criminal. They then start going through procedures to turn this into more of a criminal interaction. So I have a lot of concerns and questions about that. And so for tonight, I would really ask that the council
 tables this, that we give the public. I mean, this is during the pandemic and I follow these things very closely. And unfortunately, this was one I skimmed over and didn't notice until right before the meeting. To give the community time to have conversation, to digest the verbiage of this. And I'd really like to talk about, as a community, how do we want to interact with our youth
 What is the expectation when there is a juvenile person, a child that interacts with another adult? I wouldn't want another adult, even a professional one, having a conversation, especially one of the B items talks about a victim interview.
 I definitely would want to make sure that I was present. If my child had been traumatized or in a situation where there was some kind of victim involved, I'd want to be there. I'd want to be present. I'd want to be contacted. And so I think there's some language in here that we probably want to talk about and what our policies are today and how we want to respond.
 have those policies moving forward so that we're all working together and how we're raising our children, our community. So tonight, I would just ask if we can table this and have a conversation at the next city council meeting where we can have further conversation about what other areas are doing and
 what potentially the language could be around involving the parent, the custodial person for the child that they're going to interact with. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Beth Koger. All right, go ahead. Hello. Thank you. I'm Beth Koger. I live at 3661 Embry Drive and I'm in Ward 3. I want to second what Sarah Moore just said about asking the council to table this to give us more time to
 review this. My children are grown, but I have a 16 year old grandson who's just starting to drive and if he were stopped I I would not want him to be interviewed or make any statement without his parents being here, one of his parents being present. Thank you very much. That's all. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. I'd like to make a comment.
 I'd really like to thank Sarah Moore and Beth Koger for pointing out this portion of policy change. I think we should leave it on the agenda for next week or in two weeks to have further discussion. I'm frankly, I'm surprised. I should have done my homework a little bit more.
 and recognize that there were non-custodial interviews that happened that took place. So thank you for bringing that to my attention, and I think it needs more discussion. I've got a question for staff. Is there any issue holding this up?
 Council Member Skowron, thanks for that question. The issue is we're on a strict deadline to get this passed before the end of the year, but it's just a compliance issue. And so I would certainly think that CLIA would understand why we're out of compliance with this standard when they come in for our reaccreditation in four years if they happen to pull this. I think they would understand that.
 I do want to just elaborate a little bit and just make sure that there's a clear understanding, not only with the audience, the public, but also with the council members as well, that this is a procedure that's been in place with the police department for as long as I've been here. We are following the rules of criminal procedure, Arkansas state laws, it relates to juveniles as well. We consulted with the juvenile prosecutors
 We've had prosecuting attorneys on several occasions to make sure that we were in compliance with our law when we wrote this. And then also that there's a big difference between an interview and interrogation. And so when an interview happens, that could be simply we stop someone for a speeding ticket or they're involved with a collision or they do witness a violent crime and they are a juvenile.
 Time is of the essence for us in certain situations. But if it turns into an interrogation, we have steps that we have to follow. So if it's a suspect, Judge Zimmerman's been very clear with us and our officers understand that under an interrogation,
 Um, there are certain steps that have to be followed or any evidence that we obtain is not admissible in court. And so we would have to contact the parent or custodian in order to do an interrogation and get their permission to proceed with that interrogation. And any evidence that's obtained during that could be admissible in court, but anything that's obtained during an interview, uh, that relates to an individual, a juvenile being a suspect would not be, uh,
 admissible in juvenile court. Is there any way to approve this in general and then have us revisit that one specific item? And maybe a question for Kip. Actually, I think it's probably more of a question for the chief, but, uh, uh, you know, certainly, uh, they can present amendments that they want to in the future. Uh, if they feel like something needs to be changed here, although, uh,
 If CALEA has suggested or said that this is their standard, I guess I'll ask you, Chief, do we have to accept their standard to be in compliance with CALEA, or can we soften this to some extent and still be in compliance with CALEA?
 Oh, certainly. CLIA doesn't spell out exactly what the standard needs to say. They spell out what the standard needs to address. And so, once again, this was something that has been going on throughout my career, my nearly 28 years at the police department as it relates to non-custodial arrest. It just wasn't something that was limited to writing.
 And so we're just trying to, I think Kalia is just trying to be more transparent with the police department, putting it in writing. And we're just trying to follow the rules of criminal procedure and the rules of juvenile law as well. And so that's why we consulted with the prosecuting attorney. So we can certainly soften it if possible. We could take a look at it and have a discussion and see what areas change.
 could possibly be softened in this and still be in compliance. We'd just be out of compliance for a few weeks if we tabled this issue. And so I don't, like I said, I don't think CALEA is going to have a big problem with that. I would prefer we pass it. But I would have certainly liked to have brought this forward to council before the last meeting of the year as well so the public can comment. So I certainly understand that and I think CALEA would be understanding as well.
 Well, I appreciate that. Yeah, hopefully, you know, future things we can have more time to talk instead of, you know, we need to do this, this now. We've had some good, some uncomfortable conversations probably in the last six months and I hope that we can continue to have some of those uncomfortable conversations and get
 on the other side at a better place. So I appreciate the chief for going through those. And I do hope that we can look at this in two weeks or whenever our next meeting is.
 Well, I move that we take this off the consent because we had community members with concerns that wanted to speak. In reading through the language that's in the proposal, I could vote for this tonight. I believe that what they're looking at here are non-custodial interviews where the officer does not have probable cause to believe the juvenile committed the criminal offense.
 It looks like they do have reason to believe that the juvenile was involved and there are separate protocols that go for Notifying a parent or custodian. I think it's really important to remember that not all kids have Healthy functional relationships with their parents that they could call in a time of distress or that they would even want to know that they'd had an interaction with a police officer.
 So, you know, and what this is doing is allowing the officer to interview victims or witnesses at a scene of a crime and I think time is of the essence there. And I'm not really sure what a parent's involvement could add to the fact finding mission of such an interview.
 So if y'all want to hold it, of course, I absolutely support that. But in reading the fine print of this ordinance, I'm also comfortable voting in support of it tonight. So thanks. I would concur with Sarah there. I think there are an infinite number of complicated situations that we would be hard pressed to sit here and predict and evaluate every single one. There may be.
 interviews where the parent is the subject of the interview that could complicate the notification. Sarah mentioned others where it might just be a sensitive topic that complicated relationships also could make things difficult. So I feel pretty good that this is not a policy change, but a formalization of an existing policy. I think the
 compliance aspect is is worth going ahead and and putting this in writing with a commitment to come back and look at some of those more intricate details later i would support going ahead and adopting this tonight as long as there was a commitment to to continue the conversation
 I'm okay with that if we do have a commitment to continue the conversation. During these interviews, I guess would be another question for the chief, are body cameras on? So if there was an accusation that a police officer was leading an underage child, that there would be evidence to show that later. Yeah.
 Yes, Council Member Scroggins. Absolutely, our policy, which you passed on body-worn cameras, does mandate that our officers have their body-worn cameras on at all times that they're interacting with the public, including juveniles. Now, certainly, there's certain FOIs that would require us to
 redact that information if we had to release it, but it is there. If a parent had a complaint and they wanted to come forward and visit with me, we could look at that video together and we can ensure that our officers are following policies, the procedures, and our laws. All right. Thank you. I have a comment. First, I think it's important to acknowledge that
 We've got to do non-custodial juvenile interviews from time to time. It's a fact of life. And so having a policy in place is, of course, smart. I read the policy really closely last week and reviewed it again today and came to more or less the same conclusion as Councilmember Marsh said.
 However, what I've been listening tonight is that our chief of police doesn't see that there's a significant risk in a minor delay.
 And I see the request to table this as a no-cost way to take a good faith action with the community. And we've heard from our chief of police that the risk is small or non-existent and that even though he might have a different preference, he's okay with that.
 with the modest delay and I think these are the kinds of gestures that we use to build a stronger relationship and a stronger relationship of trust with the parts of the community that's been called into question recently. So for those reasons, I'd support tabling it. Okay, if we table it, I still have the ability to call a special city council meeting before the end of the month if we need to, correct?
 You do, but it doesn't seem like you need to because the chief thinks that it won't be a problem. Okay. So, chief, if you don't, I mean, I want to be sure. I still have the ability if Kalia does not understand or you have issues with that, I can call Special Security Counselor.
 We've had a, you know, since 2013, Mayor, when we joined CALEA, we've had an impeccable record with them. You know, we've never had any findings in our three accreditation processes that we've been through. The issue here, and, you know, with everything, and I think Council Member Scroggins mentioned it,
 you know, with everything that's went on in the last six months and certainly, you know, you date back to May and the horrific incident involving George Floyd, that there's been an outcry for police reform. And so I think that's why CALEA has asked us to revisit some policies and added some amendments and some standards.
 And so that's why we're under such a, I guess, a strict deadline here at the end of the year is because these mandates were imposed on us and we're trying to bring these policies through to meet these mandates. And so I would hate that they would have a finding against us in four years when they do our reaccreditation. If they were to look at this, I would do the best job I could to explain
 exactly what happened with this particular policy, how we brought it forward at the last meeting and how there were some community questions that came out and we would just see, you know, I guess see where it all shook out. But that would be the worst thing is that they would have a finding against us. And when I went in front of the Commission, I would just explain, you know, my stance on that and hopefully they would be understanding.
 But certainly once again to state my position, it's my preference that we pass this tonight. I feel like it's a solid policy. It's following, once again, it's following state law with our rules of criminal procedure and it's following our juvenile law as well. It's something that has been in practice for some time, but I certainly understand and
 You know, I guess I wouldn't be heartbroken if it gets tabled tonight, but my preference is for it to pass, Mayor. Okay. So we need either a motion to pass or a motion to table, Mayor. We'll be tabled for two weeks. Second. All right, we have a motion to second the table for... Until the next meeting. Until the next meeting in January.
 And I would be happy to come back and have a special meeting if we find out that that's not a good idea. Yeah, if I can always call the special city council meeting before the end of the year. Yes, you can. I just want to make sure we're clear on that.
 And I'd be happy to attend one of those too. What I'm hopeful is that the community can get behind and wordsmith this a little bit, soften it up and make it clearer and then support it so that I think two weeks is not too long to ask to get community involvement and support behind this rule.
 She said two weeks, so I guess she wants a special city council meeting. Put us in a special city council meeting. Oh, okay. Excuse me. That's right. We're missing one, so it's really three weeks. Yes. I hope that's not Christmas or something, is it?
 So I'll make sure that I follow up with Clea if it's the wishes of the council tonight to table this. I'll follow up with Clea and make a determination, Mayor, if we do need a special city council meeting. And if so, I'll give you enough time to call one. And if not, we'll address it after the first year. I can call one pretty quick. I've become pretty handy at that over the last six months or so.
 I think it's as much as two hours. Yes, about two hours. And we can have a special meeting. So, all right. So we have a motion and a second to take. I have a question. What are we looking to accomplish by tabling? What is the successful outcome that we wish to accomplish in the next three weeks? Can someone answer that? I don't think so.
 My goal would be that we involve some of the community members and maybe rewrite some of this so that it's clearer. And so that we understand what the interview is versus an interrogation and bring the community in. Because I do have concerns about juveniles. And the chief's explanation was great, but I'm not sure that this is quite clear enough the way it's written.
 I have a question for Kit. So, I mean, can we rewrite something more soft that doesn't comply with the state law? And maybe that's why we need some more time to give you time to research that because I don't feel comfortable trying for leaving it to us in the community to rewrite it if we can't even change it. State law puts the absolute...
 basement of what has to be done before the police officer can act, arrest somebody, stop and frisk, that kind of stuff. But we as a city can actually have something that would be more protective than that if we would like to. And I have...
 something I'd like to talk to the chief about and see if, uh, if he would be interested in that or if that would cause problems. So I really don't want to discuss it now, but I would like to talk to him about that. And, and, and one concern I have, and if, if,
 They want to look at that. That'd be fine. If not, that's fine too. But, you know, I think it's worth a shot. And sometimes, you know, we can lead the way by even being more careful and more kind and protective to our juveniles than is absolutely required under state law. I certainly agree with the chief. This is what state law says. So we are complying with state law with that.
 But sometimes stable goes above and beyond. And so, you know, I think if we have it delayed a little short period of time, I'll be able to discuss a suggestion I might have for the chief and see if that would cause any problems or whether that would be something that he would be happy with. Thank you. Yeah, I mean, we absolutely need the ability to interview. I mean, if there's a fleeing suspect and you're run by a bunch of
 the kids and you're like, which way did he go? Does that count as an interview? You don't want to be like, okay, can I talk to your parents to ask you which way they went? Obviously, working on this language, hopefully the community and the chief can continue that conversation. Okay. I've got a motion to second the table. Let's see where we go. All right. Karen, please go on there.
 Scroggin? Yes. Fetch? No. Kirk? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. So it has been tabled to the next meeting in January unless you call a special meeting. Okay. So I'll be in close contact with the chief if we need a special meeting, I'll call one. Okay.
 All right, let's see. Where are we? Under new business. All right, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $38,096, recognizing revenue associated with federal and state law enforcement forfeitures. Chief. All right, I'm back, Mayor.
 This is just an annual request, or typically it's just an annual request for recognizing our revenue for our federal and our state forfeitures. The $38,096 was seized from individuals that were involved in drug crimes or also involved in financial crimes as well.
 In fact, approximately $26,800 of this money was seized from a large scale gambling operation here in northwest Arkansas. After the criminal convictions, these funds were forfeited to the Fayetteville Police Department by a judicial officer.
 Equitable sharing laws require forfeited funds be spent for law enforcement purposes and they are tracked with the city's project accounting system. These funds cannot supplant our budget and they must supplement our resources at the police department.
 And so at the agenda session, I mentioned a couple of things that we've spent forfeiture money on in the past. And so I want to rehash a few of those. So in travel and training, we spent money to train our officers on CEPTED, crime prevention through environmental design. We've done leadership for succession planning. We've sent officers to the FBI National Academy. We've also sent officers to the Police Executive Research Forum.
 a senior management institute for police course as well. That's in Boston, Massachusetts. And then also annual enrichment speakers. So every year we have leadership, our cultural diversity courses that we put all of our employees through and we address topics such as cultural diversity, implicit bias and procedural justice, just to name a few.
 We also attended designing and constructing police facility seminar prior to starting engaging with our architect for our new police headquarters building. And then also we trained our officer in several different types of pure forensics evidence gathering as well. I mentioned last week that we used the money to purchase memorial badges in honor of Officer Stephen Carr recently.
 And then we use it every year for annual service awards at our appreciation banquet, and also at our retirements to award the officers that are retiring, our employees that are retiring with service plaques.
 Some permissible uses, as I've already mentioned, include law enforcement operations and investigations where we could offer award money. Someone gave us a tip that led to the solving of a crime. We can also use these funds for recruitment efforts. And as we just talked about previously, accreditation processes as well.
 and training and education. I think I highlighted a few of those for you. Equipment is another area that is permissible for the police department to use, and then travel and per diem as well, and awards and memorials, as I mentioned. Some of the impermissible uses I wanted to highlight is it doesn't allow us to create an endowment
 or a scholarship program. It doesn't allow us to purchase food or beverages. We can't have extravagant or wasteful expenditures. So I can't go buy a Mercedes for me to drive or BMW or something like that. It doesn't allow us to transfer the money to other law enforcement agencies. And it doesn't allow us to buy equipment
 and transfer it to other law enforcement agencies as well. The cost related to lawsuits can't be expended with forfeited funds, so we can't utilize it for that. And we can only utilize it for officer salaries in very limited circumstances. With that, Mayor, I'll be happy to try to answer any questions that we might have. Okay, what questions do we have, Chief, on this one? I have a quick question.
 So Chief Reynolds, we talked a little bit really briefly this week about this and we were going to look at possible educational on-site maybe like a playground, educational playground to help children understand and learn more about becoming possibly a fireman or policeman, policewoman.
 Is that something that's an equipment that's allowed or is that, would that, or not? That's a great question. And so I guess my answer to that is that would be very questionable as an allowance. And so we would have to seek permission for something like that, Council Member Gutierrez.
 There is an avenue for us to ask those questions on the front end instead of having to ask for forgiveness on the back end, which is good, but it has to be related to some type of anti-crime efforts, community policing efforts related to crime.
 You know gun violence or drug awareness or something like that. And when I mentioned our backpack initiative. Last week that we partner with St. James Baptist Church on and also as bell school, you know, we were able to put some anti crime literature in those backpacks with school supplies and things of that nature.
 And that's how it was permissible for us to utilize the poor consumer funds for that. So I don't know if I answered your question. It's something for us to certainly think about as we're building our new police headquarters site, something where we can engage in our community, you know, a playground, a basketball court, something in the plaza that Council Member Petty mentioned. And so certainly something for us to explore. And I'll be happy to do that.
 That'd be great to just find out if that's something that's an option. Definitely want to continue to support those awards for retirement and the service awards. And those are really important. And definitely all the training. So at minimum, definitely look forward to seeing a good investment of these for richer funds for those uses. Thanks. Thank you. What other questions do we have?
 I don't want to pepper you with what ifs all night. I really just pulled this off to take some public comment. But now that we're kind of going down that road, I appreciate you laying out kind of the guardrails for this. One thing I look at when there's funds of this nature that come from a specific use or specific source, I like to see if there are ways to spend them to the benefit of the community.
 of the community in the same way that they were they were seized so would it be possible for instance to take money that was seized from drug activity and put it towards either the crisis stabilization unit or drug court or other rehab and assistance programs like that
 Yeah, that's Council Member Smith, another great question. And yes, we've done that in the past. We've shared some of the assets with Drug Court under the permissible uses. One thing I didn't mention was sharing of resources with organizations, I guess, that support community-based services.
 uh action and so they have to be 501 c3 or c4 their mission has to support uh the fayetteville police department's efforts policy and our initiatives and then also uh we're only out allowed to give 25 000 annually the key there is that the law enforcement agency head must approve it and the second thing is that we must assure that those funds
 are spent permissibly under the law. And then we have to monitor, we being the city, have to monitor the sub recipient of those expenditures and keep track of those as well. Thank you. Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute duration broken into three and two segments.
 don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents will be allowed to speak first so uh who would like to address this sarah moore okay go ahead hi sarah moore and ward 2 in fayetteville um
 Thank you for taking comments on or for pulling this off consent agenda to have a conversation about the asset forfeiture amounts that we're talking about incorporating today. What I kind of want to back up and talk about briefly is that what asset forfeiture actually is and where do these monies actually come from? I've spent the last two years.
 or sorry, about a year and a half, attending each monthly meeting to hear the reporting on the individual cases that we are targeting in a fourth judicial direct task force. And while I will agree that, you know, wanting to rid our community of drugs will make us safer, I do have concerns about some of our methods and the ways in which we kind of employ our resources today, because at this time, I know we had the
 the drug director Kirk Lane here recently, and we, I think, have the most overdoses in the state of Arkansas in our area with our current methods in place. Asset forfeitures are the actual cash and seizures of properties of computers and cars and things like that of someone whenever they're entangled with drugs that are involved in a criminal charging.
 These individuals that with this asset forfeiture today are not entitled to an attorney, and the filing happens pretty fast where they have to actually file a response to this. Many times the individuals were maybe $500 or less. They were small-time individuals with small amounts of cash who, if they had that cash, would actually be able to post bond to get out of jail to fight their cases.
 And so many times these folks linger because they're too poor to pay to get out of jail and take plea deals, which put them on long term probation, say three, four or five, six years. That will be very hard for them to not trip up during the duration of that. Overall, it doesn't keep our community safe. So I know tonight I'm not going to change the nature and the status of forfeiture.
 But what we can do today, I feel like, is as a community, we could have a conversation about how we can be more restorative with those funds.
 how we can pour those back into the community with the guardrails that are already in place the way that the statute reads today, that it has to be law enforcement. We can still be very creative. Part of that is that it can go towards prosecution. One of the areas that we could look at for this money are the victim services area at the prosecutor's office. We've talked a lot about social workers over the last six months. I do think they're vitally important.
 And I think that this money can very much be used in our community to try to address and to educate around drug use and the pitfalls of it and assisting individuals that are trying to get connected to resources so that they can pull themselves out of that. And maybe assisting at the Washington County Detention Center for folks that are, you know, getting criminally involved and trying to connect them to resources.
 We also have folks that are homeless because they're struggling with addiction. So we have neighboring areas like Oklahoma City that have homeless liaisons. It would be great to see these funds potentially, again, pouring back into our community to try to uplift individuals. And I'm sure there are many other folks in our community that have other ways that they 
 could see a way that we could be doing community policing activities with this money. And I know education and training is very important for our force, and I don't want to take that away. And I heard, you know, designing of the police station, but I go back to ultimately where this money came from. And kind of as Councilman Smith mentioned, you know, being able to go en route back to where this originated from with folks that many times have had issues
 drug issues and addiction issues of their own and wanting to pour back into our community to try to really address the root of that so that we all can live better, more uplifted lives. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Scott Mashburn. Go ahead. Okay. Thank you.
 I'd like to repeat what Sarah Moore has said, is be careful the unintended consequences of this and the process and the procedures that are done in it. Also, the conversation is restorative justice. Having also heard from our drug czar saying that we can't arrest ourselves out of our drug problems
 that what about using more restorative justice and other ways to help fight the drug addiction and other issues that arise rather than putting more money towards arresting people. And it's, ethically, I have questions about incentivizing arrests and seizures,
 that it seems like it raises some ethical issues. So again, this has been brought in at the last meeting of the year. They're wanting this is not our emergency. We could have planned ahead. The police department could ask for public input.
 in these things and public support or give us more time. So it's saying that, yes, maybe it's legal and it's permissible and it's the law, but maybe our city could look at it a little differently about how we use these funds and also to make sure that it doesn't incentivize people being arrested and also the procedures of people who may be already marginalized
 don't have the resources to fight the resources being seized from them. So those are some of the things that came up with listening to Sarah and some things that I've been thinking about on my own. Thank you, Chief, for coming before us and explaining things. And thank you for us having public input. I was having some problems also.
 I'm going to try to see if we can't resolve that tomorrow. But thank you for having public input to the process. Thank you. I'm done. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mayor, I would just like to reiterate what I said before. I think it's important that we have a public input. I think it's important that we have a public input. I think it's important that we have a public input.
 develop a standing citizen committee that can review issues like this and the previous one when we have more detailed community conversations that need to go to a policy or a sensitive budget decision like this. I think it would be useful to have a venue for that and a group that could host that. But until then, I move that we approve the resolution. Second. All right, we have a motion to pass the resolution.
 Any final comments from council? Yes, Mayor, briefly. I'll be voting no, and I would vote for it if there were a more specific purpose listed as was suggested by some of the citizens. Okay, anybody else? Well, Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 marsh yes kenyon yes teddy no okay thank you all um i need a little break okay okay five minutes yeah give me about five minutes five minutes okay let's go ahead and get started again uh number two resolution authorized payment to random productions llc in the amount of five hundred thousand dollars
 for the production of True Detective Season 3 in Fayetteville and to approve a budget adjustment. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. This item before you, as Mayor mentioned, is authorizing the remittance of $500,000 to Homebox Office, Brandon Productions, for the production of Season 3 of True Detective in the city of Fayetteville. It's been three years since we discussed this, and Resolution 21117 was passed, and I'm really excited to have it back.
 The project highlighted the best of Fayetteville and really the economic engine that the creative economy is. Showcase the best of local and national talent while having a significant economic impact. And it was a continued testament that Fayetteville strategic investments in the arts continue to pay off in big ways.
 What happened since the resolution passed was truly an incredible project. I don't want to say once in a lifetime, because we've continued to see additional productions come to town since and because of HBO, and I personally and professionally want them to come back as well. But what transpired was we proved we could handle productions of this size, and we got to not only work with, but we got to learn from one of the best production companies in the world.
 I wanted to take a moment to outline how we confirmed the spending data we're going to touch on in the next few slides. Every single direct expenditure was tracked throughout the production. And I had the opportunity to spend all the time that we needed as a department with the reports to assess the spending in Fayetteville. Those reports exceeded 92,000 lines of data. And you'll note that the phrase at least is used. And I wanted to provide clarification of that.
 Given that the production schedules are classified, I use the numbers that I spoke about in 2017 during the council meeting as my threshold of reference. We estimated $37.6 million in payroll would take place through the production. I can attest that we might have exceeded that following the review of the reports.
 Another key component that our estimations were a little off on was employment. And following the review of the reports, 1,895 different Arkansas residents received compensation for participating in this production, an absolutely incredible number. And with direct tax estimates in 2017, it was a little over $700,000 in direct from the listed items on the screen. We most certainly not only met that, but we exceeded it.
 And where you see reported means that I was able to find that expenditure in the reports and calculate it into our own math. What's important to realize here is there were a lot of expenditures by the crew that weren't tracked. The direct revenues from things like building materials, costumes, equipment, set props, et cetera. Because some of it was HMR and some of it was sales. If you back into the math, you'll see that that's around $30 million in on-the-ground spending, somewhere between there.
 It's significant because we were able to recapture our investment and exceed it just from direct spend. Economic impact, we think about indirect, too. We talked about this in 2017. It's kind of like a boulder getting thrown into a lake. The splash is the direct activity, yet we rely on economic modeling to measure the waves because when a crew member went grocery shopping, bought something at a shop, grabbed a meal at the depot, it wasn't tracked.
 or granted an Airbnb. So we turned to modeling to help us understand those indirect items that we talked about. And this is extremely important because those are very big expenditures for a project like this. The ERA model that was provided to us by the state in 2017, that is also in your memo, is a scholarly study done by a PhD economist. And I mentioned we rely on this modeling to show us those things that are impossible to fully track.
 And the highlighted cell that I want to talk about briefly is the $26.5 million in induced and indirect. We took the same conservative approach that we did in 2017. And if I assume that we only got a fourth of what the model predicted in induced and indirect spending, yet I'm being intentional and I'm being conservative again. Again, I can fully attest that we probably got at least that. Yet I have no way of confirming those direct expenditures, which is why we rely on the model.
 6.6 million in additional sales over the items like shopping and entertainment. That's 200,000 more in tax revenue that gets us roughly to a million dollars. If you were to assume we captured all of it, that's 1.5 million in direct tax revenue. There's so many other benefits to this project, though, outside of just economic direct and indirect impact. Linear views of the series were over a million every single week. And that's not streaming or cumulative data, nor does it count the numerous times that somebody's rewatched it, including myself.
 And that exposure has already brought in ancillary benefits such as additional productions that told us they became aware of Fayetteville because HBO came here. We've had great media coverage, positive comments and reviews from the film leadership, and we developed a permit process that's so agile and flexible, it's been used by professional film companies in downtown Fayetteville all the way to high school students now.
 And it was also clear, too, and this was something that Chris Crane, who's on the call with us, spoke in 2017. They really wanted to be a part of this community while they were here. They set the gold standard, as far as I'm concerned, when you think about coordination and communication with surrounding property owners. But there were other than just unique employment opportunities they gave back. And I think my favorite example is the nine tractor trailer loads of set props and materials they donated right back to the Salvation Army in South Fayetteville.
 Our investment also had a lot of benefits in the realm of talent, attraction, retention, and development, which was something we talked about that was critically important to us to bring to Fayetteville. It was an incredible resume piece, and at the end of the day, it was a beautiful piece of art that was produced and manufactured right here in the city. And I'd like to ask now that Chris Crane, our State Film Commissioner, to kind of close with some of the remarks and some comments. Chris, thank you for being here and hanging out with us tonight, sir.
 Chris, you have four minutes left for the presentation. You're muted. Thank you for telling me that. I'll be brief, and please don't take my brevity for anything but appreciative of your time. Fayetteville literally shined, and we can't thank you enough for being economic development partners in this endeavor. The production of True Detective was...
 the largest production we've ever had in the state of Arkansas. Uh, and it was with many thanks to the city of Fayetteville. Uh, this particular partnership is exactly what economic development should be. Uh,
 Each municipality should have some skin in the game, but also have the state lead that particular economic development with placement. And it was the perfect placement for this particular project. And it will lead to many more. And so that's all I have to say. I'm going to be brief because I do respect your time. You guys have been here all night. And I appreciate that as well. So thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'm such a fan of Fayetteville, and so is everybody in the production, by the way. You've had production members move here. I know that many of you know that, but we've had many production members want to live in Fayetteville, and, you know, I...
 why not? So anyway, I'm going to stop there. We would appreciate you guys giving a good vote. If you have any questions for me or for Devin, please let us know. Thank you very, very much. What questions do we have from the council? How do I make sure I get into the next premier?
 We don't, we don't have any, uh, yeah, any rain over that, but, you know, and, and, and, and you guys know how appreciative secretary Preston and the governor and, and, and, you know, everybody was of Fayetteville. I mean, uh.
 I could go on and on. And I appreciate, by the way, your compassion. I've sat through three hours now of your city council meeting. And your compassion for the citizens of Fayetteville should be commended. I've been to many, many city councils. And you guys shine. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What other questions do we have in the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Five minute duration broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name, address, and federal residence will be allowed to speak first. All right, who would like to address us tonight? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution.
 I'd like to start by just thanking Devin for being so wonderful. You know, hiring the economic vitality position was one of the best things that we've done since I've been on the council and Devin has done a great job and bringing exciting projects like True Detective here in HBO is just.
 It's incredible. And I'm looking forward to having Tuesday nights off and maybe I'll actually get to watch this TV show finally. But I would point out that this show, it's left its mark on my neighborhood. A lot of the revenue that one of my neighbors earned by renting his home to be part of the production, he then turned around and created a neighborhood park with that money.
 And that's something that we can all enjoy now. I saw a lot of people flooding in and renting in my neighborhood while they were working on the production. And I enjoyed not just the economic impact, but just the vitality that it brought to the community. So this is a great project, and I'm glad that we've had the opportunity to be a part of it. Thanks, Devin. Thank you.
 Well, Council Member Marsh, if I can just respond, I will say it was fun, but when somebody calls you and says, I'm going to blow up a house tomorrow, where's your permit? You've got to figure out how to adapt to that. We learned a lot about film through this project.
 That certainly was down in our neighborhood, wasn't it, Sarah? Yes. Very close. I recognized all the houses, didn't you? Yeah, well, and I walked by one day, and the whole front of the house was blown off, and then the next day, it was back like it had never happened. So it was really kind of amazing watching that happen. It was something.
 It did create a lot of talk in the neighborhood. I will say that. Yeah. With that, since this is a resolution, I move we pass the resolution. Second. I move most in the second to pass the resolution. All right. Any final comments from the council? Well done, y'all. Great partnership. Great project. All right. Caravage Police, Colorado. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay all right thank you all very much. Thank you all. Thank you. All right number three an ordinance to amend 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to create the Evelyn Hills outdoor refreshment area. Oh I'm sorry Kit
 Whereas on June 4th, 2020, the City Council approved Ordinance 6322 pursuant to Act 812 of 2009, which established the city's first entertainment district permitting alcohol possession in outdoor public spaces. And whereas J.C. Berkyaga, if I got that right, the owner of Evelyn Hills Shopping Center, has been working with city staff on a proposal to create a small entertainment district that would allow his tenants to adapt
 to the challenges of the pandemic and permit customers of restaurants to fully utilize outdoor dining spaces. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 111.07, Outdoor Refreshment Area of the City of Fayetteville Code by enacting a revised Section 111.07,
 as shown in the attached exhibit a which authorizes the creation of a permanent open consumption districts establishes evelyn hills outdoor refreshment area and enacts regulations for the evelyn hills outdoor refreshment area section two that city council city of fayetteville hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because it will provide opportunities for fable businesses establishments residents and visitors to
 to comply with the directives issued by the Arkansas Department of Health regarding limited occupancy and social distancing which are necessary for the public peace health and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore the city council hereby declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Thank you mayor. Good evening council. As
 As Kit mentioned, this item is to designate an outdoor freshman area on a portion of Evelyn Hill Shopping Center. This ordinance enables a dining district to exist where alcohol can be consumed at sidewalk cafes, outdoor seating areas, etc. It also has an event clause that I'll talk about. We are requesting the emergency clause of this ordinance because it solves a really big problem for a restaurant.
 while taking its time to respect the surrounding property owners and other tenants around the site as we look at future adaptations for this property, especially once the pandemic are done. This item does designate a it's actually seven acres, 4.2 acres of which are usable. Entertainment District, Persona Tact 812 that we'll refer to as Evelyn Hills Aura. This is a much much more simple designation than we have in downtown because its goals are completely different.
 This takes a first step as a dining district just as was used on South Main Street and Little Rock to get to yes when the city did their Selma Dining District in that city. Its rules are simple. It's not bound by dates, times, cups, visible identifiers. It allows patrons of restaurants to possess and consume at seating areas such as a sidewalk, cafe, or expanded outdoor dining seating. We'll show you some pictures of in a moment.
 It does not regulate serving because Act 812 does not give us the ability to regulate serving, which is kind of why we're here. We included the Aura events provisions as well just because
 Just because while we were in here, event organizers can apply for events without beer gardens on the site. Going through the permitting process, of course, and getting notification as required by the ordinance of neighbors. We're not aware of any that have been proposed for this site, but it's been a really nice touch for downtown. We've seen roots and experience. They'll really shine using this tool.
 If you haven't seen the patio that Chrissy over at Mockingbird built, wow, she did a fantastic job. And this ordinance allows drinks to be drank on that patio. And I'll show you why staff found it necessary to use Act 812 as our only path to accomplish this goal.
 Just because of how the center is designed. To the right is the restaurant's entrance. And the patio is only accessible by traveling through the sidewalk, which is interpreted as public space by ABC. It's very consistent interpretation with what we found in downtown. Even though it's a private sidewalk, just given the center, it is considered public. We don't have a whole lot of centers with this problem. I've reached out to some other
 landowners and shopping center representatives as well, to see if we can do some fixes like this for them too. And so we're working on those, but this picture really shows the issue. I'm trying to cross this moat and I'm trying to get over here. And it's a big sidewalk, ADA space, there's a lot of room there to do some stuff.
 The boundary does extend into the parking lots for events. Again, I have no knowledge of events this time. You might ask, did it spill a little bit back? And yes, that is. I did that out of respect for some property owners. I really pride with our main aura, I pride ourselves in the work that we did to address dissent and concerns. I think that made it such a strong ordinance
 And I want to spend a little more time on this piece of property. And I think it's going to be important to think about, especially as we look at improvements to 71B between North and Township, and we make this street more walkable, we can do some really cool things, not just here, but elsewhere.
 We included this in our memo. It's just a few points on how the current outdoor freshman area is doing and really kind of comparing the size and scope even though their missions are very different. And so you think about the size of 150 versus two, dining versus you know roving, and we are up to a little over 160,000 cups into the main downtown. And we'll be back soon to talk to you about the downtown aura very very soon.
 And for our residents, we sent this out, information out to all the tenants in the center and our point of contact that we had. All this information can be found on our website by backslash ORA, or they can reach out to us during the week. I'm happy to answer any questions. I know we have a few folks on for public comment as well, Mayor. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for Devin? Okay, let's take some public comment. Okay.
 everybody gets one turn to speak five minute duration going in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member please stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address the federal residents speak first who would like to address this first molly ron hey go ahead
 Hello, Mayor. This is Molly Ron, and I live at 2584 North Elizabeth Avenue in Fayetteville, and I'm here speaking in my role as CEO of the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotion Commission. I'm fully in support of the initiative that Devin has brought forth. We shouldn't have to be declaring an entertainment district in Everland Hills. That shouldn't be the only tool in our toolbox. Okay.
 However, and unfortunately, the state has nuanced and antiquated ABC laws that make it very difficult to help local businesses that need help. We have a restaurant there where a patron cannot simply have a glass of wine on their patio, which is something that happens at restaurants across town.
 all the time. Passing this takes very little on our part or on your part as the city, but has the potential to have a meaningful impact for a local business. And I strongly encourage that you all pass it. Thank you so much for your time. And thank you so much, Devin, for your work on bringing this forward. Thank you. Who has the last address?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. That's okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Petty. Yes. In order to amend section 111.07, outdoor refreshment area to create the Evelyn Hills outdoor refreshment area and to pass an emergency clause. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Groggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes.
 TURK? Yes. MESS? Yes. GUTIERREZ? Yes. MARSH? Yes. KENYAN? Yes. PETTY? Yes. An ordinance amends section 111.07 outdoor refreshment area to create the Evelyn Hills outdoor refreshment area and to pass an emergency clause. Okay, what kind of comments do we have in the council?
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Mr. Mayor, we need a separate bill for the emergency clause. Okay, we need another motion and a second for the emergency clause. I move we pass the emergency clause. Second. Second.
 Motion to second pass the emergency parts. Carriage please call the roll. Sprogan? Yes. Bench? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Thank you all very much. Great work, Devin, on that, by the way.
 All right, number four. An ordinance to approve vacation 20-006 at Kettle Mountain Regional Park at West Judge Cummins Road to vacate a portion of a street right of way. Ken. Whereas the city council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of the street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's agenda memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk,
 In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Pardon? Yes, Mayor and Council. Very quickly, Judge Cummings Road is the entrance to Kessler Park.
 and the road that serves the wall fields and the access to the open space to the west, doglegs to the south and then over. There's a right of way through the existing soccer field and the driveway that serves the water tank and then it goes up the hill. A condition of a large scale that the Planning Commission approved was this vacation, which is sort of a typical thing that we would ask
 private developers to do so we're following our own rules. Planning Commission staff recommend approval. We'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Darnold on this? Why do we have a roundabout with just two legs? Well, good question. Actually, the Master Street Plan anticipates another possible connection to the private property to the north.
 anticipates another Collector Street connection to over here. So in the future it might have at least three. Okay, good alternative access into the park too. Yeah, yes. Okay, any other questions from the council? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute duration.
 broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address the council? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. We are on the first reading. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Second.
 Chair, would you please go over? Scroggin? Yes. Batch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. And the ordinance approved the AC 20-006 for Kessler Mountain Regional Park at West Judge Cummings Road, the vacated portion of the street right-of-way.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Terp? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 In order to approve VAC 20-006 for Kessler Mountain Regional Park at West Judge Cummings Road to vacate a portion of the street by the way. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes. Eddie. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number five, an ordinance to amend 166.22 community services and 166.24 urban thoroughfare by changing certain permitted uses to conditional uses. Kip.
 Whereas the City Council adopted City Plan 2040 with objectives to promote context-sensitive corridor planning and prioritize multimodal street designs that treat walkability and cycling as core functions, Bill 3. And whereas the City Plan 2040 includes a growth concept map designating areas of the City intended to develop into pedestrian-friendly mixed-use nodes served by current or future transit service,
 And whereas the community services zoning district is often applied to areas where mixed-use development is desirable because its stated purpose is to encourage a mixture of residential and commercial uses in traditional urban form, and whereas recent examples of development in community service districts utilizing only use unit 8 single-family dwellings
 in patterns indistinguishable from neighboring residential zones have failed to produce the intended variety of housing types or reserve space for future commercial development.
 And whereas recent proposals for community service zones have drawn public criticism about the safety of traffic associated with use unit 18, gasoline service stations, and drive-in drive-through restaurants in areas with high pedestrian traffic or compatibility of these uses with nearby residential uses. And whereas a conditional use permit process allows the Planning Commission to apply a higher level of discretion
 to ensure development of these uses is safe, compatible, and appropriate. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend section 161.22, community services, by removing use unit eight, single family dwellings, unit nine, two family dwellings, and unit 18, gasoline service stations and drive-in drive-through restaurants from subsection B1 permitted uses and adding them to subsection B2 conditional uses.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, hereby amends Section 161.24, Urban Thoroughfare, by removing Unit 8, single-family dwellings, and Unit 9, two-family dwellings from subsection B1 permitted uses, and adding them to subsection B2 conditional uses. Okay. Kyle, I believe this one is yours.
 or it is kyle's yeah okay unmute kyle i did it again uh i went over this in some detail at the agenda session and i'll try to be a little bit briefer tonight basically i feel like the community services zoning is not meeting our goals the first way that i see that happening is that good zoning really ought to make for predictive predictable development and we keep hearing from our neighbors as recently as tonight that
 They are too nervous about some of the uses that may pop up in a community services or urban thoroughfare zone. Other times where we've heard that, been largely on Mount Comfort. Recently the Hardin zoning, but as far back as three years ago when we zoned the Hazen Farm on the south side of Mount Comfort.
 The consensus seems to be that it's community services is the right zone for these areas, except that
 It's got that use for gas stations that generates a lot of traffic and drive-through restaurants that out in the more suburban areas also generate a lot of traffic and round the clock lights and things that are just not as desirable in those residential areas. So my proposed solution for that is to move use unit 18, gas stations and drive-through restaurants
 from a body right use to a conditional use. The other way that I see this zone not really meeting our needs is
 We do a pretty good job of community planning for mixed use and diverse housing types. We've written those into all of our long-range plans and places where we've intentionally selected the community services zoning, in particular South Ruple. But we're just not getting what we're asking for there.
 It's a zone that's in other places too, but these are the biggest places where we've zoned community services with a very intentional purpose and it just hasn't gone as planned. So my solution there that I'm proposing is to move single and two-family dwellings also out of by right use in that zone into conditional use permit. And that would allow the Planning Commission to evaluate the zoning
 the right conditions for housing. We certainly don't want to prohibit single family housing because that's an important part of meeting our goal of a diverse array of housing types, but also we don't wanna see that use used to the exclusion of all others, especially when it kind of erases the lines with adjacent zonings.
 I will fully admit that this is a band-aid approach. It's not the kind of big picture graceful solution I would like. I think our whole code needs a big overhaul in some areas like that. But until then, development is still happening and I don't really think that we can wait. So here's the band-aid that I'm proposing for now. If you have other ideas, I view this as a conversation starter.
 And I'd love to hear what you all think about this. Okay, what questions or comments do we have? I'd just like to say thank you to Kyle for bringing this forward. This is something we have talked about for years. And there have been many times where I might have wanted to support community services, zoning or urban thoroughfare, but may not have done so because of my concerns about gas stations and
 drive-thru restaurants. I think this is a great solution because it acknowledges that sometimes those things are still appropriate in these zones, but it will allow the planning commission, which are knowledgeable professionals, to make those calls on a site-by-site basis. So thanks, Kyle. Okay, anything else from the council? So, you know, one of the things have we
 This was a walk on right? Is that how I know it went out in the agenda. It was published and we talked about it. Okay, because because I'm not when I look at my packet, all I get is like one page. Pull anything up here. So I'm kind of like, Okay, I think Teresa had a similar question at agenda when the packet went out. Just had the
 the agenda cover letter, but in the legislation text, the entire ordinance with all the whereas narrative is published. Okay. So that's not in our packet then? No, it is. I found it tonight. It is there, but you're right before it wasn't. So they've updated it.
 I'm not finding it. I've looked all over for it. I thought we were just going to have to guess on what was going on here. Yeah. If you push the legislation text link on the agenda, it is coming up there, but normally it's on that second link. So I don't know what's going on. So when, when you start doing this, have we, have you talked with,
 any of the real estate community because I'm getting lots of calls from realtors about concerns about just changing things like this. And you know how everybody gets, I mean, it might actually end up being for the best, but you know how everyone gets concerned when we start changing things. And I think that if you're going to make changes, you have to really get some of these people behind you a little bit.
 If they can make a dollar off of it, they'll be fine. As long as they know what they're expected to do. I did consult with one of the developers on the largest section of CS zoning over here that I know has a plan coming through. And they were all acceptable with it. It didn't go down well.
 every parcel of CS zoning in town and try and do outreach, but I'm happy to let it run its course here over several readings and y'all can take the comment that they bring us here. I tell you I have a concern when I think remember the big wahoo over the driveways and it was simply because we did not include stakeholders and that's that's what it came down to and
 And this we've got to include stakeholders because there's already a lot of information coming my way that's not exactly accurate. So it's going to take some education.
 because on the basis of just what it was written there, it just looks like more restrictions, more paperwork, more hoops to jump through. And we hate Fayetteville, we'd rather develop someone else because you're just making restriction after restriction after restriction. Now that's what I've heard. And I think it has to have more discussion
 or we're gonna have the same results as we did with the driveway legislation. Mayor Jordan, I just wanted to make a comment for our council members and also for our public.
 There was a huge update this weekend regarding Chrome and also how our vendor, Granicus, uploads all those documents to the Internet and through browsers. And if you're using a Chrome browser, you're not able to see all of those links right now until that vendor gets everything taken care of. It's something that I found out on Sunday afternoon. Okay. All right.
 Yeah, I definitely don't want to vote on this today, but we need to start looking at these issues. You know, there's a lot of people that want to be in Fayetteville because we do have those restrictions. So they're really concerned about improving development.
 And if we can start, one of the reasons I'm pushing for PCDs all the time is because it's hard to get anything approved because the neighbors are usually really mad because they're like, I have no idea what's going to be here. And they just imagine what's going to be there. So this may be something that, and I have no idea if we can do that, that there is either a sunset clause or this applies to new CFs.
 or some way to reconcile that so that people are going to claim that this is a taking. It's not a taking for them, but as new people come in, because we're at the point almost that it's like we're telling people that they have a bill of assurance that they won't build a gas station on any CS without actually telling them
 if you want this, you're going to have to do a bill of assurance. So clearly, I agree with Council Member Smith that something needs to change because we do need more development. But we also have a large force of NIMBYs that are concerned and they want to they want to see stuff and it's developers don't want to go through the PZD method because it's expensive, it's expensive to get all the plans.
 for a 50-acre project, hundreds of thousands, if not millions. Just look at the architectural services for our police station. Like, it can get expensive. So hopefully we can continue this conversation. There are a lot of voices. There are developers that are like, I'm never going to develop in Fayetteville again. And then there are NIMBYs that are like, don't ever build anything ever again. So we hope that happens.
 There's a lot of voices here. So hopefully we can start looking at those options. I'm glad that while I respect the real estate industry's clout and ability to organize, both of these solutions to both of these problems were brought at the direct request of residents from Ward 4 and Ward 5.
 While I don't have the personal network to reach out to the entire development community myself, I view this as our public forum for doing that. And so I'm bringing this on behalf of folks who've asked me to address these issues and appreciate y'all's help engaging in that conversation.
 With respect to the real estate industry's clout, they also involved a lot of citizens as well. And, you know, some of those citizens were in Ward 4 when we're talking about the driveways. So I think this could be going in the right direction. I just want to make sure that we include the right people so that we don't have excessive drama when we don't need it.
 that's kind of where I'm at with that. Let's just, you know, let's like, I want it to be like a deflated souffle, you know, just take the drama down. If we need to make changes, we need to make changes, but, but let's work with everyone and try and get it, uh, get the people that, that could be, um, maybe obstacles. Let's get them on board with it a little bit. But I think, um,
 Yeah, I know you're not expecting this to be passed or go through tonight, you know, because we're just starting to talk about it. And we really, so I guess we haven't had any public comment yet. So I'm going to shut up and it's going to, you know, see what else happens here.
 I was really hoping that we could advance this tonight. This is something we have needed to do for so long, and it's really an elegant solution to taking the most controversial aspects of our more intense zoning districts out and in terms of reducing drama.
 Every time we have a rezoning to community services or urban thoroughfare, we have to sit up here for hours listening to community comment, people concerned that there could be a gas station or a drive-through. And this really allows us to...
 to address those concerns on the front end and then while giving freedom to our professionals in the planning commission and the planning staff to evaluate lots on a one by one basis.
 You know, it's hard as a realtor to sit up here and listen to a lot of the disinformation that the realtors lobby spreads about the things that the city council tries to do. Without recognizing the delicate balance we have to strike between protecting existing neighborhoods and residents as well as accommodating the growth that is happening and and
 And that will continue to happen. And as we grow and rezone things, it's important for us to have more calibrated tools than we've had in the past. And this is one way of doing that that I think will allow us to upzone a lot more properties for development while protecting the adjacent properties from the adverse conditions created by some of these uses here. So...
 I recognize we're probably going to table it, but I really hope that you will support this ordinance and get it done. It's an ordinance. I don't know if you need to table it. Those are all very good points, Sarah. But, you know, some of us are going to be here.
 if we pass this and be catching flack from people that you're not going to be getting. And, you know, and that's just, you know, I would rather, we always talk about letting the neighbors speak and have their say. Well, you know, maybe we need to let developers have their say as well. So I think it's only fair. Yeah.
 Why don't we take some public comment? Mr. Mayor, if I could before we get to public comment. I'm not, I don't have any position on the validity or the wisdom of this or anything else. But when I saw it, I saw that there, the way it was originally drafted to go in effect immediately was a real danger to the city for regulatory takings. If somebody had purchased some property that was zoned CS and wanted to build a gas station,
 and now they have to go to the planning commission. The planning commission doesn't have to grant a conditional use, so that could adversely affect their reasonable anticipation to be able to build a gas station, which they can right now. So I think we need to handle this like we did the streamside protection ordinance.
 What we did in that particular case, we phased it in so that if somebody wanted to build within the streamside protection zones, they had to do it within a certain period of time. I think it was depending on the size of the lot from six months to a year. When I saw this at the agenda session, I looked at that and talked to Blake and had him draft up a section three that would basically delay the implementation for six months.
 This will give us some help if we would get sued, because it means that if you want to, if you're buying your land and you want to build a gas station there, which you can right now, we're not taking that away from you. You have six months to get it done, but in the future, you cannot do that.
 And so I would recommend that, and I will send this ordinance out to you tomorrow on what could be a possible six-month kind of moratorium on the effectiveness of this. And that should give us a lot better protection from a regulatory tape. It's a Private Property Protection Act.
 then if we institute it immediately, I think we really have some serious legal problems on that. And so I would not certainly recommend passing it as is right now, because I think we'd be opening up the city up to a lot of legal liability. And so that's the only thing I wanted to say, is that I think there needs to be a phase in for this to try to protect the city from legal lawsuits. DAVID BURRAGE- Back to the public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. I've been in duration for the segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address us tonight? Christopher Lomax. Go ahead. Hi, this is Christopher Lomax. I live at 2169 North Stone Chapel Lane.
 I appreciate the opportunity to speak this evening. I think this is an interesting topic. As Council may recall, in August, there was a zoning request for come and go that was proposed at the intersection of Mount Comfort and Ruppel that I think spurred this conversation that was ultimately withdrawn by the developer. But in that process, got to be acquainted with
 The Hazens who have another property that was previously mentioned that's zone CS, but we collected about 350 signatures opposing the rezoning. And it was specifically due to this gas station. This, I think, doesn't meet the intent of what the city plan 2040 is with regard to vehicle traffic as we're encouraging more of it into an area.
 But it also does bring to light some issues that we have with CS and the intent of form-based planning. I believe the geography of Fayetteville often limits the desired outcome, especially in areas with immediate proximity to city boundaries and are currently classified as rural lag. To the city attorney's point, I could see that there is a rezoning request right now for this parcel again that,
 was before planning commission last night and it is a developer but it doesn't have a specific intent whereas the previous request in August had details and showed some preliminary drawings and things of that nature. So regarding public input, I think that 350 voices, there were over 360 signatures and I think some of them were for folks out of town but about 350 of those were from Fayetteville residents
 And I think that speaks volumes to what the neighborhood and Ward 4 wants to see in this area and doesn't want to see in this area. There's a Casey's that's almost being completed right now at the corner of Shiloh and Mount Comfort that's going to be just right off the interstate exit. And I think that's probably, hopefully would meet the needs of that. Like I said, we live up the street and that's personally not something I'd want to see. There's currently no other service stations that are zoned CS and doing research for
 That was something that we determined looking at. Most of those are zones C1, C2. So I don't think it actually fits into that.
 And there was quite a bit of scrutiny on that again as well. And I'm thankful that planning commission did bring the light to the developer and told them that every T would be crossed and every I would be dotted in regard to that. And there weren't going to be a lot of exceptions that they were going to be taken. So I think the planning commission as well also understood the intent or the concerns of the neighborhood. I would encourage you guys to look at adopting this sooner rather than later.
 tonight would be ideal. I do know that there's a lot of input that needs to be had. I particularly had a difficult time getting registered tonight to speak, so thanks for letting us know that Chrome wasn't working, but again, I appreciate my time and or your time, and I'll yield to back to City Council. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Will Dockery. Go ahead. Will Dockery.
 4149 west bread street um i just want to read from our planning book about the purpose of the community services district and that's designed to provide primarily provide convenience goods and our personal services for people living in the surrounding residential areas and is intended to provide an adaptable mixed use centers located along commercial corridors that connect denser development nodes
 There is a mixture of residential and commercial uses in a traditional urban form with buildings addressing the streets. For the purposes of Chapter 96, Noise Control, the Community Services District is a commercial zone, and the intent is to provide standards that enable development to be approved administratively. Urban thoroughfare and community services were originally designed from the beginning to be a more dense node with a mix of housing and services. You see that it's mostly supposed to be services, and that's partially why it's based under a commercial zone.
 Unfortunately, the only things that are being built right now are single family housing. And what we're seeing is we're having trip generators rather than trip destinations and edges rather than nodes. And we're also talking about building gas stations along these areas and fast food restaurants, other things that instead of leading to the walkable city that our city planned calls for, what we're doing is we're just making more traffic that makes it hostile to, you
 to pedestrians. And what these the community services was originally envisioned for is that area around Jefferson kind of where you had a lot of houses. That's where my family originally lived way back in before World War II and stuff. But that's exactly what it was supposed to be like where you have this community node and then some commercial around it, but a lot of housing in there.
 and community services isn't supposed to be exactly like neighborhood conservation or rsf4 otherwise we wouldn't have made this zone in the first place. So I think it's interesting that there's possibly some opposition to this based on like hey we should be able to have whatever zone do whatever we want to in a zone but and not
 But that's exactly what zoning is for is to limit certain things from being in those areas. And I also find it interesting that we keep saying like there's no citizen input or community input. But if you've been in Ward 4 meetings for the last year and a half, which Mayor Jordan started back when he was a council member,
 If you've been in those meetings for the last year and a half, multiple members of Ward 4 keep bringing up these issues repeatedly on a monthly basis. I mean, Teresa and Kyle could regale you with some of the hour-long meetings that we've had just about this issue. And many of my Ward 4 citizens have wildly differing views on zoning, but they keep asking for this, especially for the Unit 18 changes.
 And then finally, I want the council to keep in mind that large portions of Ruppel from MLK to Elk Creek and College from Maple to North Street, plus portions of Mission MLK crossover Fulbright Expressway and I-49 have community services.
 or UT facing them. And the council really needs to consider if single family dwellings are appropriate by right in every case in these locations and gas stations and fast food. And if we continue to build this way, will we have the tax base to pay for these roads with these development patterns? And if you don't think this is the answer, then we need you to come up with another plan because what we are doing right now is not working and is actually hurting our neighborhoods, especially on the west side. Thank you.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Jim Hazen. No hand. Good evening. Thank you for this opportunity. My name is Jim Hazen and I live at 2160 North Ruppel Road. I believe that gas stations and 24-7 businesses should be removed from the community service zoning or moved to conditional. Gas stations are unlike any other by right services. They are unique as a 24-7 car magnet high impact business.
 community service zoning was established to encourage walkable residential nodes in a town design gas stations are more commercial and overwhelm the neighborhood driving the desired results away from community services if you remember over 400 residents supposed to come and go at Rupa Mount Covert as undesirable and by the way as Chris said the planning commission has forwarded
 another request by the same organization for CS in that same location. When we re-zoned our land, gas stations and 24 seven businesses were a thorn that created strong opposition in the area. This will continue until gas stations and 24 seven businesses are removed or restricted from residential community services. I appreciate the time to talk to you and I hope you fix this ordinance and make it more usable to the residents
 that have to live next to these gas stations, shall we say. I think the realtors may have a point, but they may not have to live right next to these gas stations. Thank you. Thank you. Who else want to address this? Judy Heisen. Go ahead, Judy. Hello.
 You guys must take naps in the afternoon for these meetings. But I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Judy Hazen and I live at 2160 North Ripple Road. Some of the things I'm going to say, I will be repeated by Chris and my husband, Jim.
 I am urging the council to revisit the community service zoning by removing gas stations and 24-7 businesses. When these uses are discussed with local residents, they become defensive to these uses. Gas stations are too high of an impact and adversely affect the walkable residential purpose of a neighborhood.
 They are noisy, crime-centered traffic magnets that reshape our community. We have in our neighborhood within a few blocks, Holcomb School, Holtz School, three churches, three preschools, and a veterinarian clinic. We are seven-tenths of a mile from a new Casey's gas station.
 And it's in an appropriate area next to I-49. And we had about 400 residents oppose the come and go at Rupo Mount Comfort. When we rezoned, the only opposition were to gas stations and 24-7 drive-through businesses. We respected our neighbors' concerns, but this probable...
 This problem will continue until gas stations and 24 seven businesses are removed from this flawed ordinance. It creates opposition in an otherwise positive development in our Mount Comfort community. Please, please vote appropriately. Thank you and happy holiday. Thank you. Who else would like to address?
 Okay, let's bring it back to the council. I have a comment, Mayor. Sure. You know, I think a lot of us got emails and phone calls today from the real estate community, and it was like they had just caught on to this item being up for consideration tonight.
 I don't want to rush this because I think there are a lot of strong feelings and that we should really make sure that we hear those voices and consider them.
 I will second what Will Dockery said. We have discussed this issue at almost every monthly Ward 4 meeting that I've attended. So it is something that needs to be addressed and has had a great deal of impact on the discussion. But I don't want to rush this tonight. I think we need to hold it. It's the holidays, and we need to hear it again in January. Thank you. Uh-huh.
 Anything else? I have a brief comment. I'm thinking a couple things. One, it's obvious that we're going to end up taking a little more time with it, which I can appreciate, but it's not something that I personally feel is necessary. And this is the first thing I'm thinking is some people are never going to come along, ever,
 And it's okay for us to take action even if they don't. Sometimes they're just wrong. And the second thing I'm thinking is, Council Member Smith, when you were making your introduction, you said something that picked up my ears. You said, we had an intent with these rezonings and these designations, and we're failing in meeting that intent.
 And I think this is really important for me to recognize and maybe for the rest of the city to recognize is there are a lot of ways our code is a failure. And there are a lot of ways it's not, but there are some ways that it is a failure. And it's okay for us to admit that it's failing us in these ways. In fact, it's even important for us to admit that these are failures that can be corrected.
 And I hope we'll see more of that even coming straight from staff or from other council members because I think that's how we stay on top of things. Okay, anything else? Council want to leave this right here and pick it up in January? What's the wishes of the council here? I'd like to keep it right here. I would too.
 Okay. I would love to vote on it tonight but that was never my expectation so I'll see y'all from the public comment side. Okay. Okay we'll leave it here and pick it up in January. We'll leave this one on. Okay. That brings us to number six. An ordinance to amend 163.02 authority conditions procedures in chapter 163 use conditions
 by adding general compatibility with the city's adopted strategic plans as an additional factor for the planning commission to consider when granting conditional use permits kit whereas the city council adopted city plan 2040 with objectives to promote context sensitive corridor planning and prioritize multimodal street design that treat walkability and cycling as a core functions goal three
 And whereas City Plan 2040 includes a growth concept map designating areas for the city intended to develop into pedestrian friendly mixed use nodes served by the current or future transit service
 And whereas conditional use permit process should be amended to allow the Planning Commission to ensure development of certain uses is safe, compatible and appropriate pursuant to the stated goals of the City Plan 2040 and the City's others adopted strategic plans. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends Section 16302, Authority Conditions Procedures of Chapter 163, Use Conditions, by enacting a new subsection C3CIII as follows. Quote, I, general compatibility with the goals and intent of the City's adopted land use, transportation, and other strategic plans, unquote.
 Okay. You have this one as well?
 Yes, this is a companion to the other. I would have written them all as one, but Blake said since they were in different sections of code, they needed to be separate ordinances. In the previous topic, we moved some items to conditional use. Generally, the Planning Commission has a list of technical attributes they have to certify, have been addressed when granting a conditional use permit.
 And one of them is compatibility with surrounding development. But what they don't currently have is the authority to decide compatibility with our future planned development. So that's the intent here is to be explicit that the Planning Commission is empowered to pursue our long-range plans as adopted by the council when considering conditional use permits. Okay. Okay.
 What questions do we have from the City Council on this one? I have a question. Sure. Garner, I wanted to ask you and your breadth of experience in other cities if you thought that this was something we needed and if you did, if you might expound upon why. I think the Planning Commission does consider those plans right now.
 And I know our staff does always looks at our plans and our strategic plans, our street network plans and our land use plans when they write the staff report regarding a conditional use permit. So I think you're codifying existing practice and I think it's good practice.
 I'm glad to hear that. Thank you. That's been my observation as well is that this is what the planning commissioners and certainly the staff do in practice or at least set out to do in practice. I'm especially eager to see this codified, this practice codified because I've also noticed that
 at times the lack of its explicit inclusion in this list has created some weaknesses I think in in the deliberations and has forced the planning commission and sometimes even the council to
 really do kind of a complicated dance just to say, you know, that we need to make a decision in reference to the plans. And so I'm excited for it. I hope we can vote on it tonight. It seems exceedingly straightforward to me. It's late and I don't want to do any more planning lectures, but the, our, the directions that are in this section,
 are all specific tangible items until you get to the general requirement of the planning commission looking at compatibility that is typical of administrative items like large-scale development or plats you always want objective tangible criteria because you're administering the land use code
 and you don't have a discretionary item on the table. A conditional use permit is discretionary. So I think it's entirely appropriate to have the general condition of compatibility as well as master plan performance. Thank you. Anything else from council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration.
 broken into sections of three two minutes don't get to anyone from the public or any city council members stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address that more instance we'll speak first who'd like to address the council will dockery go ahead
 Well, Docree, you know, council that I love development things. I think it really shapes our city in ways that we do this. And I think this is a good thing that we should go ahead and approve. It's a lot like planting a tree now. We may not see all the benefits of it, but 50 years down the line, those who live in Fayetteville will thank us for that, for this. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 What's the wishes that count? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Caravans, please call the roll. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes.
 In order to amend Section 16302, Authority Conditions Procedures of Chapter 163 Use Conditions by adding general compatibility with the City's adopted strategic plans as an additional factor for the Planning Commission to consider when granting conditional use permits. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Karen would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes.
 In order to amend section 16302 authority conditions procedures of chapter 163 use conditions by adding general compatibility with the city's adopted strategic plans as an additional factor for the planning commission to consider when granting conditional use permits. What final comments do we have in the council?
 I think that this is such an important ordinance. You know, our plans are only as worth as much as our implementation. You know, it doesn't do any good to have all of these plans, get the community involved in them, if we're just going to stack them on a shelf and never look at them again. Whereas this really requires us to
 thoughtfully consider each of those plans with every decision that that we're making so or that the planning commission is making so thank you Kyle I gladly support the ordinance anything else well I guess I'd say thank you to Jonathan for pointing out to me that that this could be a challenge to some of the other issues and then also hashing out with me the uh
 the challenges that this could pose for staff and helping me understand their perspective. And I guess thank you to my down the street neighbor who chewed my ear off for 20 minutes one day complaining the Planning Commission doesn't plan anything but just react. So I'm happy to help set that straight. Thank y'all. All right, with that, Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. No. Smith?
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Eddy? Yes. Okay. Moving right along to number seven. A resolution to approve the extension of one temporary full-time equivalent position in the Development Review Division for Planning Technician through December 31, 2021 and to approve a budget adjustment. Garner, I believe you have this one.
 Yes, Mayor, and thank you, Mayor and Council, for considering this late in the evening and this late in the calendar year. This is, I admit, normally is associated with an annual budget request, but I think you will agree with me this isn't a normal year or normal time. Two surprises happened. One, our development applications actually went up.
 And then I think the latest surprises, our revenue was unexpectedly good. But to make a long story short, we have a lot of work. And I approve biweekly hours and too many hours are being put in by this division.
 And we happen to have, because of the inter-gov conversion, we have a planning tech that helped us with that as well as other things that is very competent, fully trained and completely needed at least for the next year. So I think we hope that you will approve this. I can tell you, even with this position
 The overtime hours are extensive. I will give you an example today. The planning division staff was at the planning commission until 1030 last night, and a number of them came in and greeted me when they were leaving tonight between 7 and 8.
 uh their hours are excessive our development uh uh applications have not gone down and the position is needed happy to answer any questions what questions we have okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak have five minutes duration three two minute segments
 I don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. The federal residents will speak first. Who would like to speak to the council on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. Move we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bench? Yes. Warren? Yes. Warren? Yes. Warren? Yes. Warren? Yes.
 TURN? Yes. SMITH? Yes. GUTIERREZ? Yes. MARSH? Yes. KENYAN? Yes. PETTY? Yes. Okay. That concludes our business. Do we have any announcements? I got it. Excuse me. A brief announcement about the Blood Mobile tomorrow on the Fayetteville Square from 9 to 3.
 Community Blood Center of the Ozarks is bringing their blood mobile. And if you can donate blood, it's most appreciated. You will receive a long-sleeved T-shirt and a chance to win a 2020 Nissan Kicks. That's all. Okay. I have a couple of announcements tonight. One, this is Garner Stoll's last city council meeting.
 he'll be leaving us. He's going to be back a day or two, and then he's going to be leaving us by the first of the year. Garner came out of retirement and started at the city in October of 2017.
 as Development Services Director. Garner has over 39,000 years in planning and community development experience. 39,000? 39 years. He is damn old. 39,000. And thanks for going so well.
 Evening is lost. I mean, I knew there was overtime, but that's excessive. That's only one council meeting. Anyway. I guess I'm showing my age. I've worked on this one too. Garner has over 39 years of planning and community development experience including 36 years as director, or assistant director of planning and development departments.
 During his time with this city, Ennis staff developed the following projects. City Plan 2040 was adopted. Master Transportation Plan was completed. 71B Corridor Plan was completed. College Avenue rezoning from Maple to North was adopted. Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance Amendment was adopted. Access Management Ordinance Amendment was adopted. Short-Term Rental Ordinance Amendment, that's pending.
 Washington Willow Local Ordinance District that is pending reestablishment of the long range planning division creation creation of the long range planning subcommittee of the planning commission and intergov update software update and uh
 Garner has been a tremendous asset to this city. I have, and I have a lot of common interests that we share, camping and hiking and reading. But we met, what, every week at least, sometimes twice, sometimes three times, and I found his experience and knowledge impressive.
 so valuable to me and helping me develop as a mayor. And I wanna thank you for that, Garmin, because your expertise and experience, wisdom, you were a fine teacher for me, and I really appreciate you making me a better mayor today than I was before you started.
 So, Garner, we wish you well on your second retirement and hope you enjoy doing the things you love. And I hope to continue to see you walking around this great city. Thank you for your service to this city. I will see you in the next thirty nine thousand years. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, for those kind words. And thank you, Council. It's just been an honor and privilege to provide you with staff support. Jane and I are.
 both retiring 1st of January. We love the house we have over on Prospect, and you're all invited to stop by whenever you can. I look forward to keeping up with affairs in Fayetteville, and occasionally maybe coming down and raising some hell. I don't know. I'm a Fayette-billion now. That's what Fayette-billions do, right?
 But thank you. Thank you for the kind words and thank you, Council. And thank the past Council also. It's just been an honor and privilege to provide you with staff support. Also, I want to thank, as we go into the end of the year and the holiday season is coming up and we won't be back until after.
 January, well, we'll have an agenda session. But I want to thank the council for their service this last year. It has been quite a year with a lot of challenges. I mean, a lot of challenges. And you all have been steadfast. You have worked tremendously hard. You've been a tremendous service to this city, a help to this administration.
 And I want to thank you all for your service this last year. And I wish you all a happy, healthy, and safe holiday season, my friends. Thank you. All right. And with that, we are adjourned.