I would like to call to order the December 17th, 2024 City Council meeting. Karen, would you please call the roll? Moore? Here. Whittaker? Here. Arno? Here. Bunch? Here. Turd? Here. Hertzberg? Stafford? Here. Dr. Jones? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the...
 of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the Federal High School Dance Team recognition that I will present. Yes, indeed. Why don't you all come? Yeah. Yeah.
 Thank you all very much. It is an honor to present this to you all for an entry certificate of recognition. This certificate hereby is presented to the Federal High School Dance Team.
 The city of Pebble hereby acknowledges and congratulates the Pebble High School Dance Team for winning the 2024 6A Dance Championship. Thank you all. Congratulations.
 uh what is left i thought maybe paul might be doing a finance report tonight or something um okay the next order of business i think uh vice mayor sarah bunch has that
 Well, it's I hope you can hear me. I'm a little under the weather but It's definitely different on this side of the podium here. So As many of you know this is mayor Jordan's last meeting and We have a little something to present him with but I wanted to say a few words before we started and I kind of want to highlight a few of the things of his long and illustrious career and
 And I'm not real good at this, but I'm going to give it my best shot here. So these are just a few highlights here. Early in his administration, the mayor brought Fayetteville forward together with hundreds of volunteers in the community to identify the shared vision for enhancing our economic vitality with new initiatives to include our emerging green infrastructure and creative economies.
 Parks have always been so important in our community as well. And during the mayor's tenure, we have committed to very large-scale parks projects such as Kessler Mountain, Centennial Mountain Regional Park, and improvements to Walker, Gully, and our incredible new opportunities that are emerging with Underwood Park, which is still in formation.
 the west side of Fayetteville. The Yvonne Richardson Center, renovations which will help the youth of Fayetteville and Fayetteville's first river access park at Combs on the West Fork of the White River. These are all major projects. Mayor Jordan has also been very active with the development of master plans that will guide our city for generations to come. These include a
 the City Comprehensive Land Use Plan, the Climate Action Plan, the Economic Vitality Plan, Fayetteville Mobility Plan, Tenure Parks Master Plan, and coming soon, our first-ever Cultural Arts Master Plan. In the downtown area alone, the Mayor has helped complete the Walton Arts Center $23 million expansion. He's helped build two downtown parking decks to serve our citizens and our guests.
 He's invested in the development of Theater Squared, and now we are getting ready to open our incredible cultural arts corridor, The Ramble. The mayor's emphasis on public safety has also been a very consistent theme throughout his four terms. He strives to be able to help recruit the very best people we can and give them the tools they need to do the best job to protect our citizens.
 and through his tenure we have seen several new fire stations built and our incredible new police station, which was just completed last year. Mayor Lionel Jordan has always been strong on strategic investment in infrastructure. He's advanced innumerable investments in our long-term smart growth and his roads and trails projects are too numerous to mention.
 It's safe to say that a lot of new construction and completion has happened on every major artery in this city during his tenure, including Razorback Road, Huntsville Road, Ruppel Road, Zion Road, Old Wire, Mission, and now our incredible revisioning of the new urban corridor that runs on College Avenue, not to mention a $25 million
 grant we have received for the Safe Streets for All program. Now, these are all really important, but I think one of the things about Lionel Jordan that strikes me most is his commitment to the people of our city, fairness in representing everyone to the best of his abilities, and nothing represents this more than his efforts with our Civil Rights Ordinance. It did not last, but
 He worked very hard on that, and I'd never have doubted his commitment to the citizens. Now, also, earning awards has been one of Mayor Jordan's favorite things to do. He has, he's earned, and we've earned a lot of them. We've received some very prestigious awards, including the U.S. Conference of Mayors Climate Protection Awards.
 the National Soul Smart Program for his work on the solar arrays at our wastewater treatment facilities, and we've repeatedly received the designation of one of the top 10 places to live in America year after year. Now, those are all professional aspects of Lionel Jordan's legacy, or at least a part of it, and it really doesn't touch on all the wonderful things he's done for our community. But now I'd like to take just a moment to
 and add a few personal observations about Mayor Jordan. And these, to me, are much more intangible, but they are absolutely priceless, and I think they exemplify his true leadership. Mayor Jordan has a saying, and we've often heard it, and I may get it wrong, but it's open door, open heart, open mind. And that statement sums up Lionel Jordan as a leader. He's a consensus builder.
 He has worked hard across the board with all citizens and all groups, and I've seen him foster relationships and build bridges to move our city forward where I did not even think it was possible. Lionel Jordan has been a mentor to me, as well as many others in this community, and he sets a very, very high standard for what we should expect from our elected officials.
 His actions have always been professional, they are founded in compassion, and his focus has never been on himself. It's always been on the people of Fayetteville and doing what's best for our community. Lionel Jordan truly has a servant's heart, and I cannot express how important that is in our elected officials. It's not enough just to be elected and to have a little bit of power or to be the boss. You have to be a leader as well.
 and Lionel Jordan has always led with grace, dignity, and compassion. It has always been my honor to serve with him, and it is my very distinct honor to present him with this award tonight for his years of distinguished service to our community. And it's presented to Lionel Jordan in recognition for your commitment to the citizens of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, 2009 to 2024, with sincere appreciation for your dedicated service as mayor.
 I don't know if I can. Thank you all. When we started this, folks didn't think I could do this at all.
 But I had great support from this community. I certainly want to give a shout out to the people of this community. And I always told them, I said, there's three things that I do and I do well. And I was taught that by my father, who wasn't a man of great education, but he taught me three things. Be reliable, be dependable, and be good to tie to in a tight spot.
 And I've been through a few tight spots. But I want you to know my heart has always been with this city. I love it. I fought for it. I served it. And I want to thank somebody else here in the room. Oh, yes. My wife, Diana, 47 years old.
 We've got Megan here, my son's here with his family, Jerry. Come on up, let's get a picture together. Okay. Thank you all very much. I ask you a question. Don't you just love this church? Yeah! It's not you. Yeah.
 Okay, let's get going. Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the nominating committee report. Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 The nominating committee met and interviewed candidates on two separate days and wishes to recommend, well first of all let me actually take a moment and comment that while it's intrusive on your family's life and your schedule, one of the most positive encouraging things that we do is to get to meet the remarkable people that apply as volunteers to serve on boards and communities in this commission.
 in this community and it's just astounding the caliber of talent that that makes application and we want to thank everyone that applied. We have more people than slots and so we apologize in advance that we can't place everyone. With that said,
 We are recommending to the full council the following names for the Active Transportation Advisory Commission, all with terms to end on December 31st of 2026. Meredith Kasten, David Criswell, Abby Hildebrandt, and Rebecca Hollander.
 For the Airport Board, a Federal Aviation Representative with a term to end December 31st of 2029, David Hopper. For the Audit Committee, with a term to end December 31st, 2027, Amanda Goodman. For the Black Heritage Preservation Commission, one representative familiar with the historical black church, term ending December 31st, 2027, Lois Bryant.
 for the Botanical Garden Society, the Ozarks Board, with one member at large termed in December 31st, 2027, Laura Underwood.
 for the Environmental Action Committee, by the way, the most degreed committee in the city history with more PhDs than any other body, with the term ending December 31st, 2027. For the Local Industry Representative is John Dominick III, and Residents at Large, also ending on December 31st, 2027, Thomas Deer and Grimsley Graham.
 Regarding the Fayetteville Housing Authority, we will not make a recommendation at this time. That will come subsequently with a historic district commission recommended by Mayor Lionel Jordan, Tommy Davis. That term ends December 31st, 2027. For the Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs Advisory Board, with terms ending December 31st, 2027, Skye Caldwell, Yari Davis, and Doug Walsh.
 And finally for the Urban Forestry Advisory Board, a Tree Service Representative, term ending December 31st of 26, Bethany Douglas. And then with public at large members, Joseph Fox, Kate Shirley, and one remaining vacant, all with terms to end December 31st, 2026. And I would make a motion
 to the full council second we have a motion to second to accept all nominees not all thanks for the exception of the housing authority all nominees proposed by the nominating committee care which please call more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes dr jones yes
 And now for the second order of business for the nominating committee. The Fayetteville Housing Authority recommended Melissa Terry to us for consideration, and I would move that we reject this recommendation. Second. Any discussion on that?
 Yes. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to, I am supportive of this tonight, but I didn't want to not be on record to really thank Melissa for her service on the board. Just for the public and to get you up to speed, you know, the Fayetteville Housing Authority, you know, if you just do a Google, you know, it's had quite a storied past over the handful of years.
 We really have a lot of guidance from HUD that we're working through right now. And so I do think that we're making inroads. One of the more recent pieces of information that was provided to us by the mayor's administration was on December 6th, the letter from HUD that stated that they really were urging us to really look at the makeup of the board, that we needed a well-functioning board to really get compliant in the way that they were asking us.
 And so I think this is a hard decision, but we really, you know, have to be looking at what's being given as guidance from HUD because we are reliant on that partnership to continue to be able to provide that housing to thousands.
 of residents in the city of Fayetteville and it's so direly needed. So, you know, it's with a heavy heart for me that I move forward to do this because I do want to recognize, too, the contributions that have been done under Melissa that she has contributed so fully, given so many countless hours that we can't even begin to think in some of the more troubled times that we've seen with the Housing Authority.
 And so I want to express deep appreciation for the service that I know that she's done in the past and she'll continue to probably show it for both in the city of Fable here and here in Arkansas. So I just wanted to make sure, you know, that we, you know, addressed all that service that she's put forward to us. Okay. Anybody else have anything? Okay.
 All right. DeAndre, did you have something? Yes, yes, yes. I want to echo the sentiments of Council Member Moore, thanking Sarah for her years of service. She certainly has a heart for service and a heart for working with the Housing Authority, and I am, it's good to know that we're going to be moving forward and going to be doing the right thing and that we're going to be, I'm just, I'm just, I'm just, I'm just
 Excited that it's that we're going in a new direction for the betterment of our community members. I've been involved in some discussions and again, this is for the betterment of those residents who are receiving those services. But again, we really appreciate Sarah and.
 those who have served. It's not a, not Sarah. I appreciate Sarah, but we appreciate Melissa and all of those board members because it's not easy. But in, again, we are looking forward to making sure that our residents are receiving the best services possible. Thank you. Okay, the motion before you is to not appoint Melissa Terry back to the housing.
 authority federal house correct yes sir all right making sure all right care which please call the rob more yes we occur yes arna yes bunch yes turf yes stafford yes dr jones yes okay thank you all all right the next order of business um
 as additions proposed agenda additions and ordinance repeal ordinance 6800 which does read ordinance 6800 was passed on october the 15th 2024 but was determined not to take effect until 90 days from passage and approval this restriction on how much landlords could charge prospective tenants for rent application reviews and for possible background checks made
 violate ACA 14-43-608 regulation of prices kit. Mayor, this is kind of new ground for me. I don't remember having to come back to the council in my 23 years as city attorney and say, oh, you know that ordinance I helped draft. Draft was actually contrary to state law and so should be repealed.
 I did find a state statute that I had not looked at carefully before that does say that the city cannot regulate prices for services between individuals and firms within the city limits of Fayetteville. And the way I understand our ordinance.
 We are limiting the amount that a landlord could charge to a prospective tenant to read the application, review it, and determine whether or not they wanted to offer to the tenant the right to rent from them. So the services that the landlord would be providing as his review of the rental application is obtaining any...
 background check that the landlord felt was necessary and therefore this would be a service I believe that we cannot regulate because of that state statute and because of that I would ask that the City Council do place this on the agenda so it can be considered right now okay I will
 Point of information? Sure. I'd like to ask our attorney on motions to add to the agenda, is this a debatable or is this a vote only? I'm sorry, is what available? Is this a discussion item debatable for addition or is this a vote only? Oh, not whether it goes on the agenda. If it's placed on the agenda like anything else, it would then be debatable. Okay, thank you. I move that we place this item on the agenda. Second. Second.
 okay we have a motion second to place this item on the agenda here which please call the roll more no we occur yes vernon yes bunch yes turk yes stafford yes dr jones no there are five affirmative votes to suspend the rules needs six affirmative votes and mayor do you care to vote i'm gonna vote yes
 Okay, so the motion to suspend the rules passed and so now we are going to be on the ordinance. The mayor read I think most of the ordinance but let me it's pretty short so let me just read everything about the title. Whereas ordinance 6800 was passed on October 15th of 2024
 but was determined to not take effect until 90 days from passage and approval. And whereas this restriction on how landlords could charge prospective tenants for rental application reviews and for possible background checks may violate ACA 1443-608 regulation of prices. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1
 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals Ordinance 6800 to prevent any possible violation of state law. And I did, of course, send you a memo about this and quoted the state law and also what I believe to be the best argument that what services would mean in this particular case. Services is a very general term. And the service, I think, that a landlord would argue to the court
 would be the requirement of the landlord then to review the application fee and any background check to determine whether or not this was an applicant that should be offered an opportunity to rent from the landlord. I think because of that, this is very likely to be held by court to be a service
 And therefore, our ordinance would be in violation of that because we're restricting the amount that the landlord is able to charge for this. So that's why I brought it back to you and request that, in fact, the ordinance to repeal Ordinance 6800 to be passed. And I'd be happy to answer any questions or you can also, whatever you want to do. I think, Bob, you were, you had your line up. Oh, okay. Teresa. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. You know, I've been very supportive of this measure that Council Member Moore brought forward and was a little surprised by this, but I appreciate your thoroughness. And I'm just wondering if another alternative wouldn't be to ask the Attorney General a ruling on this. I don't know if that's appropriate or not, but instead of having it go to court, potentially, I'm...
 Could the Attorney General make a decision on something? Because I do think it seems to be a bit ambiguous. We certainly could ask the Attorney General for an opinion on that, and I would imagine they would probably write us an opinion. They very well might say that this particular statute has yet to be interpreted by the court. I see no cases that interpret it.
 I'm not sure what the Attorney General would say, but we could do that. But in the meantime, I still think that we need to repeal this statute until we get something like that from the Attorney General. They would say, oh, no, it's OK. Why don't you go ahead and do it? I don't think we should keep the statute in effect waiting for an Attorney General's opinion. If the Attorney General comes back or there's some other change, like the state legislature authorizes this specifically, we
 they're about to meet so they could do that then we would be on firm legal ground I think at that point to revisit this but at this point in time I believe the statute is most likely in violation of the state law and so I would ask still that the this the original ordinance be repealed pending any other information from the Attorney General or the legislature
 uh deandra yes kit thank you for that and kit i appreciate your um work on this my only concern is of course i've had people reach out to me and uh the word services that that that is one of the things that i felt was for me i was conflicted and can you explain how
 what what that means i mean i know what that means but in this context because people were really confused they were like as renters when did this become a service so the application fee how is it a service well and of course the landlord is going to require if someone eventually becomes a tenant two two fees the first fee would be just so the landlord or his manager or her manager
 would review the application, the rental application, and any background check, credit check, whatever it is might be needed to determine whether even this person is going to be allowed to rent from them. So the service is reviewing the application, reviewing any background fees, any costs for the landlord on that,
 to then have the second service, which is what the person really wants, which is to be able to rent the apartment or the house. But I think the first amount of money, which isn't that much, even without a limitation,
 but I still think that is paying for what I think a court would determine is the service of reviewing the application and obtaining any background checks that might be necessary for the landlord to be able to make a decision say yes I'm gonna allow you to rent thank you kid that makes sense because I have a lot of people you know they were asking and they were like when did that become a service and could someone explain that to me and so I told him that I would I
 I'm going to ask you what exactly what does that mean? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I have a lot of concerns about this and bear with me because I made all my notes while I was at the office and I left them there. So I looked at this enough. Hopefully I'll remember everything.
 The very first thing that I have a lot of concern about is the notification that's happened on this. This wasn't entered into lightly. It was over months and months of conversations with the community. Those individuals came to really long meetings. They stayed here late at night and made comment. And so while this has walked on, individuals are gone for the holiday from our student population and very few individuals maybe have even heard that this is being discussed tonight. I have concerns with that.
 Additionally, I have scrambled since Thursday when this was sent out, when I was in the middle of my scheduled and tired work day. I have spoken to seven attorneys since that time.
 There has been a split between those. Some of those do err on the side of what Kidd is speaking about, but for those that don't work with attorneys every day, attorneys give you their educated opinion. And I'm very appreciative that Kidd is trying to keep the city out of harm's way, which is incredibly important, and I value that service.
 No pun intended. But my concern is that we keep settling on that word service. I apologize that the public, I sent it to Logan just now in case we can put it up. But I actually had an attorney in Arkansas who wrote a letter to just say, and I'll just highlight where he talked about, he said a court could rule this way as there are no guarantees when he's talking about Kitt's memo.
 However, I believe the better argument is those fees are not services sold. Some examples of services sold would include accountant fees, attorney fees, plumber or electrician fees, or services in which the individual paying the fee receives something of value in return for the service. A prospective tenant receives no actual service from a rental application or background check fee. The benefit of this fee belongs to the landlord, not the tenant.
 And so really the service being sought by prospective tenants in Fayetteville is the service of getting housing and
 And the relationship that exists between a property owner or a landlord and that service that runs the check, we are not telling them or setting a price for that relationship. They can do that at whatever level they'd like. And I understand some of them pay $2 a run and some may pay nothing because they put that cost fully. Maybe they say go to Zillow.com, etc., etc.
 And so for that reason, again, I think there is enough concern within how this language is being interpreted that I don't think that we should be repealing this tonight.
 Additionally, I think that we should give this some time. Again, we only send this Thursday to think about what our next steps are. The legislature begins to meet on January 13th. I don't disagree that we need to potentially look at taking state action. I think that not only is the City of Fayetteville and urban areas experiencing these types of things with housing, but this is happening in our rural communities as well, so it's a statewide issue.
 The other thing is really looking to see if we maybe can change the language. I think that there's the option that we potentially can delay and postpone the effective date, and we could look at maybe tightening the language. And then the other thing by postponing we potentially do is we give ourselves the opportunity if we come to some conclusion that we think there might be a better piece of legislation that we could repeal this and replace.
 I think that the public has said very strongly that they need this renter protection, and I think that we need to thread the needle in the way that meets their needs. I have only received calls and emails of support and saying not to repeal the ordinance.
 The other thing that I want to let you know is I actually was reached out to by someone that is at a property who let me know that that property makes multiple fold off of every single person that comes and applies and has a background and application fee. So this is definitely a profit center for many properties in the city of Fayetteville. So this is incredibly predatory practice happening for our residents.
 And so we need to address it. And so tonight I think it sends the wrong message for us to say let's repeal this when we don't really have a solution at hand when our renters and our residents have done so much work in this space. I hope you'll consider that tonight. Paul. Thank you. I was really bummed to see Kit's memo and to see this walk on. It's not the holiday present I wanted to give to our citizens.
 If we have a bad law, we need to make sure it doesn't go into effect. I think what I struggle with is whether this is a service for the prospective tenant or this is a service for the landlord. And to me, when I think about this, it seems like a service for the landlord. The prospective tenant, if I'm applying for an apartment,
 In my opinion, I don't need a background check. I'm a good guy. I know I'm a good guy, and I know I'm going to pay my rent. So if the landlord doesn't take my word on that, that's the landlord. But I do understand the need for some background checks from the landlord's perspective as well. But again, that's a service to me that I think is for the landlord. The landlord wants to check to make sure that they're â€“
 that the person that they're going to be renting to is reliable, that they don't have a violent criminal history, whatever the case may be. So I struggle with that definition of the service. I believe it is a service. But for me, it's who is it a service for? And I have a hard time accepting that it's a service for the tenant. Now that said, I don't want for this to go into effect without us having those answers.
 I know that all of us, I think this passed unanimously, I can't remember, but we all supported this. It didn't? It didn't? Okay. Well, it passed, and a lot of us, anyways, the majority of us thought this was a great idea. And we want to help our tenants. And I know that our housing task force is coming along with a lot of great ways for us to help our tenants.
 As much as I love this, as much as I want this, I have concerns of having something that goes into a fact that is not legally viable. Okay. Yeah. Certainly respect the opinion of Kit, and never do I want to...
 go against anything that he's his advice because he is our city attorney and his job is certainly to keep the city out of a lawsuit and our responsibility is to be good stewards of the city's resources so I'm something that Sarah said and it makes sense to me that if we could just and Sarah I think that help me with this.
 it sounds like you were thinking in terms of tabling this so we can come back with something else that's kind of similar or maybe writing something else because to your point a lot of the people that they they they came they they came they they spoke they supported this and i feel like that there's just not really it's a possibility number one i'm not concerned
 I'm not afraid of what the state's going to do. I'm more concerned about the individuals of Fayetteville. Let me be clear I know that a lot of people are you know the possibility of what the state could do and it's possible But the reality is that the people of Fayetteville I I look at reality right and the reality is the individuals of Fayetteville need This they they are they are hoping that this passes and so we
 I feel that we need to strike a balance and if we repeal this, I just don't think that that's conducive to what our community needs. So if we can just figure out what can we, again, Sarah mentioned something to the effect of coming up with something else or
 Getting another opinion. I don't know but I just don't feel comfortable repealing this especially now a lot of the Individuals who were supportive of this they're not here to speak on this and a lot of those individuals are my constituents and I certainly want them to weigh in on this and
 And so, Kit, I certainly want you to guide us in this process of an alternative, if there is one. I would certainly entertain that and welcome that. Thank you. Teresa. Thank you.
 I'd like to make a motion that we delay implementation of this ordinance until March 31st, 2025, or if we receive clarifying information from the legislature, the attorney general, or whomever that takes away the ambiguity of what a service is, we could implement it sooner. But I'd like to move that we delay it.
 Well, I don't really quite understand your motion. You're talking about the original ordinance to delay its effective date? Yes, that's true. I'm sorry, I didn't clarify. Yes. Is that procedurally possible? Well, that would have to be done by an ordinance. That's why I have an ordinance here. So I could, you know, we could potentially amend this ordinance so that it delays the effective date.
 That would be so that way we would never be actually in In violation of state law But I mean it's up to the City Council what I do Recommend we do some action before that ordinance becomes effective because I do think it's in violation of state law So can I revise this so I move to amend? the
 Kitt's provision on the floor now to delay implementation, effective implementation until March 31st, 2025. Second. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Well, I was just wondering, and I was kind of thinking along the same lines, and I'm glad you went there, but I was wondering instead of putting a set date, maybe that we put it to where when we get clarification from the Attorney General or what are your, yeah.
 So I don't know, maybe the Attorney General's opinion is there is no governing law like Kit said that may be a possibility. And the legislature, you know, maybe they do something sooner. So I hear you about the set date, but I didn't know quite the language to use where we were able to get clarification.
 um i'm however you want to do i'll be willing to whatever whatever council thinks is best i i think it is a good idea to just delay implementation so we have time to clarify to work it out to get opinions um yeah sir
 Thank you, Mayor. My request tonight would be what was brought forward by Kitt was an ordinance that had been published that I think that tonight we can vote on, so we could say no. And what I would ask is that we work with the city attorney's office to bring a clean ordinance forward that would do the proper notification process for residents at the next council meeting, which is well before the effective date.
 January 7th because that way we can if we need to add some additional detail I am very uncomfortable with us doing this on the fly with the language again I think it needs to be published it needs to be out in the public but I also you know today there's no like language in front of us and when we discuss it with the public here you know they're not going to necessarily be present for that particular ordinance so that would be my recommendation tonight is to
 say no to the repeal and work on the ordinance for the next meeting. I like that recommendation to be honest with you to agendize this for our first meeting in January while we still have time. I think that would help us have a... Well that's going to happen automatically unless you suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading tonight. It's obviously then put on the agenda for the first meeting in January.
 Now, we do have a motion on the floor, do we not? So we're going to have to second. Yeah. Did we get a second on that? Yeah. Yeah, Andre. OK. So we're going to have to at least. Yeah, let me read how it would change in section one. Right now, section one says it repeals it. Now, section one would say that the city council of the city of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends Ordinance 6800 to extend its effective date
 until March 31st, 2025. So it would not be effective until March 31st, 2025 if this amendment was approved by the city council. And then this ordinance passed. Okay, sir, I see some lights on. Bob, did you? Yeah, I think I'm leaning towards Teresa's solution. Get us through the holidays, give us some time. Okay.
 And I think it's just as effective as just kicking it to the next meeting. I think it's more effective in a way. It gives us more time for consideration, for information gathering, for getting questions answered and for coming up with solutions. And maybe even better solutions, maybe implementing some of the recommendations from our Housing Crisis Task Force.
 okay deandre did you have something yes uh thank you council member tart because that is what i was thinking i think that um don't want to rush this especially with the potential of legal issues and so i feel that that gives us time to see exactly if the state is going to do anything um i feel that that that's time again for us to have the housing task force
 take a look at it so it's not rushed and then we'll have the opportunity for the residents of course to always weigh in so I appreciate that and I fully support that option thank you yes I have a question for kit so if we do delay implementation of this to the 31st if we find out something
 you know more positive about this ordinance we could we could always put it on the agenda again or if we needed to change the date from the 31st to allow more time we could do that okay that's correct okay thank you
 okay yes one more clarifying point thank you mayor um from what i understood too that we talked about because the ordinance has three readings if we make the revision tonight we can let it sit for the second reading so it goes cleanly to the january 7th meeting did i misunderstand that that was what we maybe were discussing if if this ordinance is amended then the city uh council has the right to either pass it tonight or not
 and not suspend the rules and not pass it, which automatically would appear on the January 7th meeting. Something certainly needs to happen either tonight or by then because otherwise the ordinance, which I believe is contrary to state law, is going to take effect in a few days after the January 7th meeting, and that's what I want to avoid.
 Thank you, Kit. DeAndre. I'm a little confused. What's the difference between the January 7th meeting and March? What's the difference with those?
 i don't know if i if i'm sorry i'll answer it i apologize um so just that will allow for the public to actually see a clean copy of this you know we've written this out there's nothing that's been publicized and so it still would have the date we would just not pass it fully tonight so that it would just sit like any ordinance when we leave it on the second or the third reading it goes
 you know, it'll go to the next meeting. So that's the thinking is that then it sits there so that it gets full public notification so that folks can then potentially, you know, weigh in if they haven't had time to know that this has occurred. Okay, they would get the same thing in March too. I mean, that same thing would happen in March too, wouldn't it? I mean, that would give them a longer time. That's what I'm, because I just don't see why, I mean, why,
 I see what you're saying. It's still an effective date for March. That stays in place as the legislation. All it's doing is allowing it to sit like we've done before when we've been concerned about stormwater fee study. And folks said, hey, like we just feel like we want to see more notification. We want to let it linger. It would be the same thing. We just let it sit to the next meeting before we fully approve it, just so it allows for a little bit more conversation in the event that more information, because this is
 Happens Thursday afternoon and then tonight's Tuesday night. That's a quick amount of time during the holidays I don't know about you, but I've sick kids at home right now, too So that just makes it more fun But that that's the thinking is that it gives more of a notification So those folks can weigh in because again we're making this decision right now Not knowing you know if there might be additional information that might be brought forward So January 7th, we would most likely then pass that before that effective date for the 13th
 So then it would extend it out to the end of March as council member member Turk had spoken about Thank You mayor I'm in support of Teresa's Recommendation and just as a reminder the original ordinance was changed at 1215 in the morning And we ran it through on three readings and got done at 1245 so we made changes to the ordinance that no one knew anything about and
 and ran it through on three readings. So I do not think this has a negative impact other than we are trying to figure out what is legal and we can always circle back once we get clarification and enact the ordinance when it's legal and make sure we don't need to make any changes to it. Okay, but before we do all that, we are going to take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this that's in the chamber? Mayor, just for clarification, we're taking public comment before we vote on the amendment? Yes. Well, I guess, Kent, what? Usually, not unless the city council is on it.
 Oh, so, okay, so. Okay, okay, all right, sorry, you're right. I mean, I'd like to move that we allow public comment before the amendment. We are, okay, we have a motion and a second. We do, yeah. Kit, please turn on your mic.
 I don't think the real state will not have public comment on amendments unless the city council says they will. I'm sorry. The real state that you won't have comments, public comments on an amendment unless the city council agrees. So...
 council member Moore could say that she wants to have public comment and That would come to a vote and see if there's going to be public comment on the amendment. Yes for the amendment That's what she's saying. Okay, so I suppose that is a motion to have public comment, right? Either by unanimous consent or by the majority of City Council So if you want to have public comment, there should be a motion in a second to have public comment
 I believe, will we then also have public comment on the post-amended? Yes, we will. I mean, to me, I think we should just have one set of public comment after we amend. Then you would vote no. Do we have a second? Okay. Then we're back to the amendment. All right, now we're back to the amendment. All right, any comments on the amendment? More? I mean, sorry. Any more comments on the amendment?
 Carol, would you please call the roll? The motion was to delay the effective date to March 31st, 2025. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Okay. Now we'll take public comment.
 We have the amended ordinance in place. Who would like to address us on this? Let's end the chat. Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Billy Cook. I live at 1151 East Shepherd Lane in Ward 3. I'd like to start off by thanking the Council for passing this ordinance in October. It was a long road to get to where it was able to be passed. I'd like to thank the members of Arkansas Renters United and our community allies who stayed until close to 1 in the morning to get it done.
 I would also like to echo the frustration of this news from disappointed tenants who worked hard and felt genuine enthusiasm for the passage of this measure, and then also to echo the frustrations of people in other communities in our state who are looking to Fayetteville as an example of what protecting renters looks like in the worst state to be one.
 This ordinance was created and passed to save our residents hundreds of dollars that they may have spent otherwise applying for a rental. I'm not an attorney and therefore do not know all of the legal minutiae of what a service is or is not, but in my work I've never met a tenant who feels that they are being served by filling out an application. Instead the service they are seeking is the housing itself, not the barrier to that.
 But this is not the only policy that our city can look at. Our city's Housing Crisis Task Force has already brought forward a number of measures before you. And these are measures that can help people with security and utility deposits, help with educating landlords about the existing programs and services that they can participate for themselves and for their tenants.
 So don't let these proposals collect dust in the meantime, where we're waiting on more answers about this application fee ordinance and pass the recommendations of the task force that residents of Fayetteville worked so hard to create to assist you in making housing more attainable for people.
 And I would just like to conclude with a message to renters watching that we will continue to explore options to help you and work to address our city's housing crisis. Thank you for not killing this tonight. It is a labor of love by many of our residents who felt genuine enthusiasm at seeing this past. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? It's all right.
 GOOD EVENING, COUNCIL. I'M BO COUNTS, RESIDENT OF WARD 2, ALSO A LOCAL BUSINESS OWNER.
 Right on Block Street, responsible for almost $40,000 of tax revenue last month, so you're welcome. But what I wanted to say is that thank you again for not shooting this dead in the water. When I saw the news that this was going to be an agenda item, my heart was broken. It made me almost lose faith in the process. We, you, this room, is responsible for creating ordinances which are in themselves laws that
 It seems so often that we're willing to just roll over dead when another law that existed because somebody made it, a group like this, came up and said, well, that law is there, so we can't do anything about it. We are the people that can do things about it. Times change. One of the things I saw recently is that we made it to another top five list, which was really exciting, except for it was the top five most horrible places to try and find a place to live.
 That's not a good list to be on. But it also shows that we are experiencing problems that we're at the forefront of, and I think we need to be at the forefront of change. Once upon a time Fayetteville was known as the place in Arkansas for spearheading new initiatives, taking chances on new ideas, and standing up to things that people were doing differently and going, there's a better way.
 And now I'm sitting in meeting after meeting after meeting where we go, well, I don't know, I don't know. It seems like somebody might have a problem with it. Maybe a court will have a problem with it. Maybe they need to. Because if they don't see any of us having a problem with it, then how are they ever going to know that there's a problem?
 Another thing I'd like to tell you while I still have a minute and 30 seconds. I'm a renter. I'm a business owner and a renter I love living downtown But maybe you guys have heard where I'm gonna where I live just got sold for 13 million dollars for student condo development So I'm effectively going to be homeless within the end of the year. So guess what I had to start doing recently applying to live at an apartment place and
 And I know I'm not supposed to address any of the council, but if I could, I would ask a show of hands to say when's the last time any of you have ever had to apply to rent somewhere? It's hard. And I have been encountered personally with fees up to $250. $250. Now imagine you had to apply for six places in a month. That's more than some people are making in a month here in Fayetteville. And that's hard for me to justify for a service that I'm not getting.
 Also, may I remind all of you that I hire people that serve federally controlled substances, so I also am familiar with running background checks on applications that I charge nothing for because it's the price of the business that I do. Let that soak in for a minute. When I do run a background check, it's $50. It's not $250. That's a revenue stream.
 Plain and simple. And I don't think anybody in this room can sit and argue otherwise. So I just want you guys to sit with that. If this ever comes into another conversation and I'm too busy to stand here in front of you guys, just remember that. Thank you for everything. Thank you. Nicole Lynn, Ward 3. I'm going to try to read off my notes. I'm not going to rant tonight. I smell a rat. Something is cooking in the kitchen and it stinks. This came up four days ago.
 We're not supposed to address them, but someone worked on this for months and months and months with our official and talked about it and talked about it, and yet he couldn't read all the ordinance until the last minute, 20 days before it goes into effect. Or is it this is the last chance to have a very conservative council shoot something down? Sorry, I'm getting fired up. It is notable who the renters are on council, and it is notable who the landlords are.
 50% of our residents are renters, and it's going to become more. We have got to do stuff for them. Let's see, what else have I got? I just think that it's really important to really consider what people go through. I'm also a renter. It is hard to, every time the lease comes around, am I going to be able to still afford this place? Am I going to have to go somewhere else? I know that my apartment quality is going to continue to go down and down. I'm going to have to move.
 So how about instead of one member doing everything, some of the landlords actually do something? How about you come up with it? How about you work with United, Riders United, Arkansas Riders United, excuse me, to come up with ordinances. I have this podcast that says let the women do the work and that's kind of exhausting. I would like to see some other people do the work. It is not just one council member's job to lead the way on this and I expect more out of all of you.
 Whether what happened was incompetence or something shady, there's a new guard coming in November. One, two, three, four, five bricks a tie. So to the people working on this, I would say if this gets shot down tonight, bring it back in two months. It's a whole new ballgame. Whew, sorry. Thank you all so much, and that's all I've got. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Hannah Ash and I live in Ward 3 by Gully Park. I just wanted to start off by saying thank you to everybody on the council for postponing it and not just killing it immediately. This was an ordinance that I know a lot of people worked really hard to get passed. And I just wanted to especially thank Councilwoman Sarah Moore because her comments tonight
 defining, you know, the nature of a service legally and how especially really renters don't benefit from this. It's not really a service for us. It's more of a service for the landlords that benefit from the background check. And I say, yes, I'm no longer a renter. Fortunately, I've become a homeowner recently this year, but
 That can always change and I've definitely dealt with renting in the past and have seen that it's become a lot harder in recent years in Fayetteville. I became a homeowner because I knew that renting was not really becoming an option anymore. I do cat rescue professionally and there's not really many places where you can have a lot of foster cats and also not pay a bunch of money. I know that my rent already went up.
 had gone up over $150 in within a year. That's a lot of money to go up within a year and a half so um
 That's part of the reason I became a homeowner. Not that that's a feasible choice for everybody. More and more, it's, you know, Fayetteville is becoming a great place to live and more and more people move here. Apartment complexes are going up all the time. Those are not places that people can own at and have the option to buy. So as renting becomes more and more a necessity, we kind of have to do stuff to help the renters. And...
 as college this is mainly a college town you know college students are renters we're especially being forced to become renters because i was a student at the university
 I was only allowed to live on campus for one year of my time there. And that's not really feasible. That means there's a lot of people that are forced to become renters. And college students can't really afford exorbitant application fees, exorbitant background fees. It's not feasible to continue down this path if we want this place to be livable for the population that it's serving.
 So thank you for not immediately killing this ordinance tonight. I hope you consider these things going forward and have a great evening. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, I'm Clint Schneckloth. I live up in northeast Fayetteville and pastor Good Shepherd Lutheran Church, which is just in that neighborhood as well. We have a lot of people in our community that,
 come and share the stories of what it's like to have to find places to live in Fayetteville. One of the most onerous things in terms of finding a rental property in Fayetteville is the cost of searching for one. It stacks, so although it might sound somewhat reasonable to have to pay the fees for one application, it starts to become incredibly expensive really fast when you're having to
 apply for multiple locations when wondering whether you're going to be able to access one of those and then if you Combine the stack of those costs together with having to be prepared to put down the deposit and make the first month's rent it becomes actually extremely prohibitive So as a result as an example in our church number of people live because they can't get into places um
 We have a lot of people from within the congregation that we support so that they are able to maintain stability in their places of residence. What I wonder, when we have something like this come up, where we have decided what's right, what's right to do for the citizens of Fayetteville,
 I wonder about this discourse that then happens when we bump up against what we perceive to possibly be not legal. What it looks like we do is as soon as we think it might not be legal, is that becomes the highest moral concern. Like, oh my god, we don't want to pass a city ordinance that would break state law. But what if, number one, it won't break state law,
 which it seems you might need to test it to find out whether the language and the imprecision of the language really does break state law. But also, what's the thing that everybody should be saying, oh my god, we can't do that around? Is it
 possibly breaking state law? Or is it having a community where people live two or three deep in hotels because they can't afford places to live? And a lot of people live on the street, or multiple families live on the couches and other people's homes because they simply get can't get into places and can't get access. So I know that this is a complicated process.
 And I know that you have to follow laws and think about how what the city does fits with larger systems. But I would really invite us to consider to be as creative as possible in the ways that I've seen you be. So for example, just be creative in finding solutions. Thank you. Cliff. Hi everyone. I'm Colbin Warren. I'm in Ward 2.
 I came here to say maybe a little bit more, so I'm going to be super brief, but I did come here to say something, so I feel like I should. I want to thank you all for your leadership on this issue and taking it to a place where we can decide whether or not we can be leaders in this state. I think we should be leaders in this state when it comes to supporting renters, renters that I think are getting left behind by all the growth in this region.
 renters that i think can quickly become left behind and we need to be sure we're doing whatever we can to focus on them and supporting them so thank you so much for your leadership and i also came here to celebrate i guess we're not allowed to address i'm not sure i'm not sure how to address but i came to celebrate someone's 24 years of outstanding service to the city as well so uh thank you all so much for your time and um yeah thank you colin who else would like to address this on this
 Okay. On Zoom we have Jackson Copeland. Okay, go ahead. Oh hi, I unmuted. Yeah, you're, I can hear you. Oh, awesome. So my name is Jackson Copeland and I live in Ward 1 off of MLK at the Southern View Apartments and I was just really thrown back by this whole thing because as a renter in our city, it's
 It's awful. And just with the application fee, to me, it's really inappropriate. It just seems like a money making scheme in order for big landlords like Lindsay to just abuse their tenants or potential tenants even more. And with $50 each time, like everyone else is saying, that can really stack up. And it's almost like, do you want people in your units or not? Like, why are we trying to funnel this money in? And just it's just like more off the top.
 um so i don't know if a monthly cap or the definition of what a service really is will solve this issue um but people are suffering people are homeless and people are living paycheck to paycheck people don't have fifty dollars to put down because they barely have enough for rent and for the deposit which is another rent payment
 So this city has to start doing something and to take housing seriously because rents are skyrocketing. And as you know, I know some people on the board have been anti-housing crisis, and we know who you are. But again, we are now in a housing crisis. So we have to start taking this seriously because what we're doing now is not enough. It's not enough.
 landlord's job is to ensure renters are reliable and that's not the renters that's not the renters job they like has people have said before you can say you're a reliable person but the renter wants to know for sure so it's their responsibility to fill out this not to fill out to submit that background check this city what the city is doing for housing right now like I said is not
 To sustain the city and the situation is getting worse and worse and if you all do not to tackle This issue of rising rents and the quality of the city's rentals The situation will reach a willing and as we've seen in recent news things can explode So we need to start taking this more seriously because if we don't it's all of us. Thank you. Thank you Catherine cook, okay. Go ahead. I
 Hi, I'm Catherine Cook. I live at 98 South Duncan. I'm sure you'll know me. I'm in the neighborhood that is getting torn down in the next year and a few hundred families were being displaced in the next six months. So that means a few hundred families competing for apartments. And according to the new article coming that just came out, we have 11 people per
 And I continue to see these same apartments that are set for demo increase their rent. And I continue to see certain developers still harassing my neighbors. They just forced my neighbor across the street with a life estate. They forced him to sign a contract to leave. They broke a $200,000 contract and they made him sign a contract saying he accepted Jesus as his Lord and Savior.
 My point is, I very, very clearly see their business practices, and I have no doubt will continue to raise these application fees, especially now that they know how many people are competing per unit. Multiple places are charging $200 to apply. That adds up really fast. And you would never.
 pay to apply for a job which does a background check and looks over an application. And I don't understand how that's any different. And if you're paying to apply for a job, well, then there's something really wrong. And I thank you for tabling this. And it's just, it's getting ridiculous how much we're letting them control this city and fearmonger everyone out of their homes. And we're just tearing down everything that's still affordable.
 and i don't i don't know what the answer is but thank you for your time thank you who else no one else on zoom has their hand raised okay i'll bring it back to the council when i think the council has unless there's something you would want to do we're going to put this off until march 31st and we vote have we voted on that
 We have not voted on it. Mayor, I'd make a motion to suspend. If we'll just give me just one moment to clarify that. So we have amended to delay the effectiveness of the ordinance. However, this will be, if not passed tonight, will be heard at the next City Council meeting, depending on what reading it's on at that point since it is an ordinance.
 So what action do we need to take here? Mayor, I'd make a motion we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. All right. Second. We have a motion second to go to the second reading. Is that correct? Yes. Chair, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Stafford? Yes.
 An ordinance to extend the effective date of ordinance 6800 until March 31st of 2025. Okay. All right. Mayor, make a motion to suspend the rules, go to the third and final reading. Second. Motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Moore? No. Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to extend the effective date of ordinance 6800 until March 31st of 2025. Okay, we need to vote on it, right? Okay, any final comments? Here, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Lee Curtin? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes.
 Okay, well, let's take care of that. Let's go on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the November 19, 2024 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to commit ARPA funds in the amount of $23,719.80 to the Seven Hills Homeless Center.
 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to approve amendment number two to the contract with the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $160,759 to provide public recreation services for senior residents of federal contingent on approval of the 2025 annual city budget.
 Number four, a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $1,326,000 for the purchased water account due to increased water usage.
 Number five, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and to approve an agreement with 13 verticals LLC to provide citation payment processing for the federal district court. Number six, a resolution to approve change order number one to the contract with JPZ Incorporated, DBA Ellingson Contracting in the amount of $178,526.13 for the Porter Warehouse Stabilization Project.
 Number seven, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan sign a limited lease agreement with Central United Methodist Church for operations of the church parking deck as a revenue producing parking facility. Number eight, a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $41,174 representing donation revenue to the Animal Services Division.
 Number nine, a resolution to approve an agreement with EcoVista LLC for the hauling and disposal of solid waste in the city of Federal for a period of three years with automatic renewals for four additional three-year terms. Number 10, a resolution to approve a contract with Natural State Streams LLC in the amount of $169,645.95 for the restoration of Neocost Creek downstream of
 North Azalea Terrace to approve the project agency in the amount twenty thousand dollars and approved budget judgment number eleven a resolution to approve the contract benchmark construction cut Northwest Arkansas incorporated in an amount of
 of $8,693,634.49 for the College Avenue Improvements Project to approve project tenancy in the amount of $870,000 and to approve the budget adjustment this 2022 Street Improvement Bond project.
 Number 12, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $148, recognizing donation revenue to the Federal Police Department. And number 13, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $28,463, recognizing revenue associated with federal and state law enforcement or features.
 i will entertain a motion to accept consent agenda is read so moved second we have a motion second to accept consent agenda's red care which please call the row moore yes speaker yes arna yes yes turk yes stafford yes dr jones yes okay thank you all now let's go on to unfinished business
 Number one, an ordinance to enact Chapter 52 storm water management utility fee to the Federal Code of Ordinances. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Make a motion we move to the second reading.
 Second we have a motion this second to go to the second rate care of its police call wrong more. Yes Yes, or no. Yes, thanks. Yes Turk. Yes Stafford yes, dr. Jones. Yes an amendment to enact chapter 52 stormwater management utility fee into the Fayetteville code of ordinance Okay Chris
 Thank you, Mayor. Um, there's been, uh, I think that there was a lot of discussion last time about the, uh, the credit program and some of the things that we might be able to do, uh, related to that. So. I want to talk about that a little bit. Um, I also have, um.
 Lee Kinberg with IRWP and Becky Roark with Beaver Watershed Alliance Who also I'd like to have them as part of my presentation speak on Some of the opportunities that they provide for citizens to do certain things on their property that would allow them to get credit So I'll just briefly discuss If I can get this moved I
 just briefly go through a few things because I think
 we as staff have a much better grasp and much deeper understanding of what the credit program would look like just because of our understanding of the drainage criteria manual and our typical drainage requirements. So I'm going to try to talk just a little bit about what we do require and what we do have already in our specifications that people can use. This is just a listing of
 of some of the items that are in our drainage criteria manual that can be used for water quality and reduction in runoff as part of the development review process. As you can see these, the bio retention, permeable pavement, infiltration trenches, water quality swells, and extended detention.
 just a few more of these that may be used. I've got a picture of our GSP Green Stormwater Practice 01, which is bioretention. This is the first page of about a 30 page specification that's included in our drainage criteria manual. We have, I believe, 12 different
 GSPs that are included in our drainage criteria manual, all of which could potentially be considered for a stormwater credit. Just a little bit about what the current requirement is for a GSP. That requirement, and this is for smaller
 properties that are under 10,000 square feet of impervious area, they're required to provide a GSP that treats the first two inches of rainfall. So just as an example, treating two inches of rainfall if you have a thousand square feet of impervious area, that would require 242 cubic feet of a bioretention or infiltration trench.
 or potentially 452 cubic feet of permeable pavement or green roof. We talk about cubic feet because there's a depth to these along with a square footage requirement.
 And this is just a reminder of what the rates are. I can talk more about this after we're done with the other presentations. So with that, if I could call on LEAF, I'll stop sharing my screen. LEAF Kenberg will provide you with some additional information. I think I'll stop sharing. Thank you, Chris. Yes, I'll start sharing here.
 can you hear me okay yes yes great um yes thank you chris leaf kinberg the executive director of the illinois river watershed partnership um i just want to talk a little bit about some of the programs that we offer and that could provide credit for uh under the stormwater program for green stormwater practices we implement um the
 Can you all see or is this cutting off the top of the screen? It's cutting off here, but hopefully you can see most of it. We implement the green infrastructure program and that provides technical assistance, including site visits to homeowners. We develop green infrastructure plans in partnership with the homeowner and then also develop maintenance plans for those practices that are installed ultimately.
 We can cost share. We generally cost share at about 50%, but that depends upon available funding, which does change every couple of years as we get new grant opportunities that we can apply to those. So homeowners would apply through.
 I or WP and we would then select those projects in certain cases. This program is generally designed for more commercial and industrial even and nonprofit partners, but there is some instances where it does make sense to work with a homeowner in that.
 as well. So the program can cover most of the green stormwater practices that you all are considering, everything from permeable pavement to swales and vegetated channels. So it can cover most of those projects.
 This is an example of a type of project that we generally work on. It's a bioswale with velocity reducing structures at Mount Sequoia. It has a riparian enhancement and tree planting function. Really proud to be partnered with Mount Sequoia and several partners who are funding this, but also the City of Fayetteville. This is an important project.
 and put in 2,400 native plants and 100 trees, as well as fixing some of the severe erosion that was occurring at this site. So this is an example project that we implemented.
 I just want to talk about some other opportunities for support that residents are eligible for or could potentially get support from. There is always the 319 program, which could fund certain practices. Again, it's not designed for residential as much as nonprofit, local government, and academic institutions.
 but there are some cases where it directly benefits residents as well. There are several volunteer groups that also can contribute towards practices in the city. That includes a group called Wild Ones, Master Naturalists and Master Gardeners. They have all been supportive from everything from doing plantings to providing vegetation.
 Beaver Watershed Alliance is a key partner in the city of Fayetteville. Becky is gonna speak to that. But let me just conclude by sharing, this is the photo on the right is the Rocky Branch Park out at Brookberry Crossing. This is about 700 linear feet of stream that was causing damage to property, private property along there causing flooding and had pretty severe stream bank erosion.
 And we worked with the community and with the city of Fayetteville. They, you all have partnered on this project. We contributed some funding to it to help solve this problem here. And so it's these types of partnership projects where we can't cover all of the costs, but there are numerous residents that will really benefit from this. And by the city being able to bring in funding to this, it was a capital of 2024 capital improvement budget item.
 we were able to cost share on the remainder. So it's these types of projects that I think the stormwater utility will really develop and we'll be able to support in other ways. So I will just conclude there and happy to take any questions. All right. What questions do we have, council? We have a little bit more presentation material. Oh, we do? I'm sorry, the Mayor. Chris, who's next? You got two minutes.
 So, yes, we have Becky Roark. I'm going to share my screen on her behalf. So Becky's coming to us from the Beaver Watershed Alliance. Becky is the executive director of the Beaver Watershed Alliance. Becky, are you there? Yes. Good evening. Can you hear me okay? Yes.
 And again, Becky, I'm not sure if you heard, you have two minutes, unless the council provides additional. One minute. I'd like to go ahead and grant, what, ten extra minutes? Should that do it? I think that would be plenty, yes. Okay, ten minutes? Ten minutes. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you.
 Yeah, I'll just get right to it here. So thank you to the council members and mayor for the opportunity to share on some of these potential avenues for credits and expansion on current programs. Uhm, I Christine go to the next slide here.
 So just a little background on us. The Alliance has had a long standing partnership with the city of Fayetteville over the years. And starting back with the rain garden projects we did in partnership with Illinois River Watershed to install several rain gardens across the city. And that led to larger low impact development programs to put in permeable pavers and bioswells and things.
 And now we're really looking at restoration projects on urban streams in the city and moving towards smart growth concepts and principles. So we appreciate the partnership we have with Fayetteville to do all these things.
 And what you're seeing now is essentially we've been collecting data since 2021. We have a lot more data before this time, but this is where our central data started. But we've worked with over 118 landowners in Fayetteville by providing them technical assistance, and that's to direct residents in.
 And with that, we've had 186 best management practices installed. Next slide, please. So our current program includes a landowner mini grant, which we have funding for to do a $500 mini grant for landowners, which includes a free site visit.
 site assessment planning for their property, technical assistance by our staff or partners that we work with, and then documentation and gathering metrics. Next slide please. And so what residents are receiving are what we call a site assessment plan. And we use different tools for this. We can measure stormwater accumulation on any given parcel.
 We can figure out acreage and pervious area versus pervious area, land use soils, a lot of several data points.
 And all of these things are compiled into a report for the landowner, along with recommendations on what to do on their property to reduce erosion, reduce flooding, increase native vegetation, or look at opportunities where native vegetation would help with any issues they're facing on their property when it comes to stormwater runoff.
 We've been doing this program for a little over five years and have had a lot of success with it. We just basically work with landowners from start to finish, from the application process to the implementation process and beyond that. So several landowners have been repeat customers or clients on this. Next slide please.
 And currently we do have a staff member, Emily Finley, who's our urban watershed specialist. Her background is in landscape architecture. And we also have several support staff, including our program director who can do GIS work.
 a senior ecologist, we have an outreach coordinator, finance manager, and student interns also help. So we have a full staff available to help expand these types of programs for the city of Fayetteville. We'll see. And yeah, so I have just the last slide here. And so this QR code here will take you to our Smart Growth webpage.
 So we're starting to build a lot of these resources onto that page and you'll see some various fact sheets and resources that landowners can go and learn more information about.
 We have some events coming up and really just encourage people to reach out for that personal technical assistance. But really, in a nutshell, those are our programs. And just to echo Leif, you know, these would be really great to work together to expand these programs under the stormwater utility. So thank you. And I appreciate the opportunity to share tonight. OK. Anything else, Chris? Yes.
 Maybe just a couple of other comments. I think from last time there was some discussion about the impervious area that was in city easements and right-of-way. We've talked to our consultant, worked with GIS. That will be not exactly a simple fix, but that is a fix that can certainly be implemented through the GIS layers.
 That will absolutely be done by the time this implementation begins. We also have discussed gravel some more. Alan and I have discussed that. I think that's one that a lot of people have said they don't believe their gravel is an impervious area.
 some cases I believe it is I think there are other cases where it would would absolutely not be so One simple thing that we've had and we don't we don't have this one fully fleshed out But if we just called any gravel areas as 50% impervious So if you have 100 square feet you would be considered to have 50 square feet of impervious area Just a little bit of kind of automatic credit for that gravel area We think would be appropriate
 And then I guess the last thing that I would say, if I could just reshare, and
 show this slide again. Just as a reminder, these are all the sewer utility customers and the percentages of those that are paying the various fees. Once again, 81% of our customers would be paying less than six dollars per month on a monthly bill.
 this would generate a little over three million dollars so um really i i think what what i see here is um you know as a as a homeowner i
 It's a small price to pay for the benefits that we can provide to all of our citizens and really help a lot of these folks who are in some of the lesser impervious areas that really just don't have the ability to manage the stormwater that they have now.
 feel like this is a good program and this is again a small price to pay for a very big improvement so with that I'll take any questions okay what questions do we have thank you mayor and thank you Chris I think for
 for all your hard work, but also kind of clarifying several things tonight and bringing our partners in to discuss the opportunities, the training capacities that they have to help our city folks. So I've had some citizens have reached out about the final provision within our current ordinance, which is the final sustainable credit framework.
 will be developed and available to customers a minimum of four months in advance of the effective date.
 Now, tonight you kind of highlighted some of the sections in the drainage criteria manual that would apply. And so some of the citizens are saying, well, that needs to be done before this is passed or that needs to really be implemented well in advance of a fee that's charged. It seems like you have a lot of the materials already together. And so my question is, can we finalize that credit framework
 in the next couple of months or so, since it seems like you have a lot of the points already identified.
 I absolutely think we can. I do feel like there's probably a couple of meetings with the council just to kind of go back and forth with that and make some final decisions on what that is and using the existing committee or whatever structure you would like because we I think we do need some feedback about you know some of the some of the aspects of this and
 and which credits, which types of activities really are something that we want to include in the program. But yes, I think we could move much quicker than what we've talked about.
 So, I guess, just to clarify, you would like to get the ordinance passed, and then we would immediately try to start working on that sustainability credit framework and offline, and then once that framework was kind of finalized by the committee or by staff, then you would bring it back to the council for review and approval? Absolutely, and that would be one of the many tasks that we...
 have on our list of things to do in order to be ready to push the button so that the building can begin. And that's really what we're looking for now is that confirmation that, yes, we do have a stormwater fund, a stormwater utility in place. We can begin those implementation tasks as necessary. Thanks so much. Okay. Any other questions from the council?
 well let's take some public mayor before we start uh the big one some of the big issue tonight is really the exhibit and the exhibit is the actual chapter that is what's going to work or not
 And I did send a memo out to everyone on Friday with the, what I thought was the final Exhibit A, but here I hear Chris saying that in the impervious area, 50% of any gravel area would be deemed impervious. So I would want to...
 recognize what Chris has said and amend the exhibit A, which I provided everybody by adding 50% of any in front of gravel areas so that what he said tonight will be actually in the code. Virtually everything else we've talked about, for example, the appeal process and things like that are really necessary to be placed
 in exhibit A so that this code will work as well as possible. So I think after you have public comment, but I think after that, I would hope that you all will agree to look at amending the current exhibit
 to the one that was handed out that I sent to you Friday and also was handed out tonight is in front of you with that one change of 50% of the gravel being impervious and not all of it.
 oh i think um thanks kit and uh thank you chris and and the presenters i appreciate uh addressing the gravel concerns that was a lot of feedback i was getting from people and i i think that's a good compromise it seems like a really elegant and simple way instead of going out and looking at everybody's gravel um so i don't know should we make a motion to amend
 go ahead and make a motion to amend now before public comment yes i'll make a motion to amend second we have a motion to second to amend to the exhibits that were sent out to you all correct and then what and then the addition of chris what he said tonight on the uh gravity law okay perfect service all right
 Any comments? Anything else? Okay. Terabitch, please call the roll. Moore? Yes. Wieger? Yes. Ferna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Okay. Let's take some public comment now. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council, for the chance to speak. My name is David White. I live at 164 South Crossover here in Fayetteville. As a former building inspector for the city of Fayetteville, I've witnessed firsthand the need for a stormwater fee.
 I'm in full support of a fee to assist with the maintenance and capital improvements to the overall system. I do however disagree with the proposed tiered fee structure. I feel like the study conducted by Hill Engineers was done in a way to basically come up with a fee structure that would provide the most revenue and did not truly consider the most equitable way to begin billing an entirely new fee to the citizens of Fayetteville.
 And on that structure I saw earlier, it appears that there's no difference between residential and commercial rates for the billing per billing unit. The study did look at flat fees similar to the one implemented in Hot Springs. And if I'm not mistaken, this flat fee structure might have been considered initially by the city and the council. But then the consulting engineers came up with this tiered structure that would generate the most income or the most revenue.
 My initial disagreement with this proposal was that it did not take into consideration the amount of pervious areas related to the amount of impervious area on the person's property. We all know there are many elements to the stormwater runoff than just, many more elements to stormwater runoff than just impervious area. I do appreciate the engineer, or Chris, trying to clarify the substantial credit framework a little bit.
 It does allow for an appeal in order to reduce the fee. It states that the application form and instructions will be developed and available a minimum of six months in advance of the effective date of the initial collection of the fee. I hope this doesn't tie up Chris.
 and his staff in trying to evaluate these appeals prior to the fee being implemented and the increased number of appeals after uninformed citizens notice that they've got a new addition to their bill. And one question that I noticed that came up in presentation earlier, will the Beaver Watershed Alliance assist the city
 doing these site assessments and Will that be a cost to that? program I know a lot of thought time and money has been extended expended to get to this point I'm not sure any changes to the proposal will actually be considered Again, I support the need for the fee. I do just wish that the flat fee would have been given a little more consideration and
 and a possible way to bill all utility customers instead of just sewer customers. I thank you for your time and your service, and I thank you, Mayor, for your time and your years of service. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, City Council Members, I'm here to try to get a definition for what is to be considered impervious property.
 The website that I've gone to, the city website, it gives the estimate, just to give you an idea, they have listed our property being 5,296 square feet. When I take a look at that, it's 3,900 square feet. What we need to do, I believe, is take and improve the communications that's being posted out there on the website. It's so ambiguous, it's...
 I can't even explain it. I send Miss Turk a copy of one of the city websites that also has an impervious program with stormwater drainage program that they have very clear and concise It doesn't take a whole lot of effort to get that information It was my second hit on the web to pull it down and provide that to her. I
 Also, one of the other factors that's impacting the storm drainage is the number of water main breaks that we have in our community alone. That community was developed in 2004. We've lived in the city of Fayetteville for two years now. We've had between six and eight water main breaks. That pipe, that PVC pipe, is supposed to last 100 years. 20 years to have that many water breaks, something is going on there.
 The last time that they were out, it was across the street. It was in the center of the street across from our property where it had been leaking for a month, and it was draining right down into the storm drain pipes. The city came out. After a month, they spent a total of 16 1â„2 hours just to do that small repair. Not sure what was going on there, but it seems to be a problem. So I would ask that you take a look at the bill before you pass it.
 and give us a break. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I'm John Benedict, and I live on Janice Street in Fayetteville. And I own a house on 1143 Vista Place. This was my grandparents' house, and it's been in the family since the 60s. So we've dealt with this stormwater drainage for a lot of years.
 from the water coming down Weddington and from off of Sunset Hill. So I'm in favor of addressing the stormwater issue. When they widened Weddington, this made an improvement to carry water on west on Weddington. But we still had water coming onto private property on Vista Place.
 and we've sustained damage to the house so much so that I had to jack up the house because of settling. So a number of years ago, maybe six or more years ago, I took a picture to the city engineer of water flowing onto the property that was more than ankle deep. So the city engineer sent the city crew out to the property and they put a speed bump
 a blacktop on the end of my driveway, which, you know, helps some. But if we have water up to curb height on this place, it still flows onto our property and water stays under the house. Now, I was going to put a storm drain, but that didn't work because, I mean, a French drain, that didn't work because there's nowhere for the water to go.
 there wasn't any change in elevation in the level of the property. So this was part of town known as crowded flat because you could see, crowded has come out of the ground. So I'm in favor of addressing this issue. My question is, how do I access a remedy? Does the site visit an actual grant or do I have to pay money to have somebody look at the issue on my property?
 Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? My name is Gail McKenzie and I live at 2440 West Valley Drive in Fayetteville and I am in favor of collecting money for the storm drainage project. My house has been flooded twice.
 And anything that can be done to improve the situation in our city, I think needs to be addressed as soon as possible because the longer we wait to address this problem, the worse the flooding is going to be with all the building that's going on. We need to make sure that our drainage problems are addressed now and not wait for years down the road when they get worse and worse. Thank you. Thank you.
 And who else would like to address this? Yes. Hi, my name is Joanna Person-Mitchner. Thank you, Council and Mayor. I live in Ward 1. Hi, and I just want to express gratitude
 big time support for the stormwater management fee and this ordinance we know that related to changes with our climate we're already having intermittent flooding and drought and that's just projected to increase in severity as time goes by so houses are flooding already my house has flooded
 And we don't live in a flood zone. And we're seeing that more and more. And so I'm really happy to see our city moving forward with this ordinance. And I think the tiered system, to me, it seems quite fair. You know, I...
 I understand there being some concerns about it, but it seems relatively affordable. And I love that the amount of impervious surface is being considered in this ordinance. And now I want to contact Beaver Watershed Alliance and get, you know, a...
 some would say apply for one of their grants. I've thought about doing that for years, and I feel inspired. So, yeah, we need this. That's what I wanted to share. Thank you. Thank you, John. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello Mayor and Council. I'm Sonya Harvey. I currently reside in Springdale, Arkansas, but I have an application in that was a very reasonable fee for rental in Fayetteville, so I hope to be coming back very soon. I was serving on this committee for the stormwater utility fee, so I'm glad to see it having progressed.
 One of the things that I was working with Kit on was trying to understand how the equitable part was going to work because if we charge it through the water and sewer fee, then that's going to impact renters, but not the owners. But the way that this is set up, I wanted to clarify to people, that's kind of how we have to charge it.
 So I never knew how we were going to get really around that. So I want renters to know, you know, we talked about trying to help them to not add fees and this is adding fees. So I want everybody to know on the renter side that we looked at that but the state law again is set up so that this is how we have to apply the utility fee.
 The best way, and I don't know what the other options were, and I guess this is kind of where we've landed that we could do. It still gives me heartburn that renters are going to have to pay it, and we didn't really figure out how to make just the landowners pay it.
 So I just wanted to put that reservation out there. And also, we absolutely need this. So I'm glad that we can make some forward progress on it because we are having some serious flooding issues and obviously climate change is a big issue. So thank you, council. Thank you, mayor. Thanks. Who else would like to address us on this?
 Hello Mayor, City Council. I'm Sandy Formica. I live at 1327 East Ridgeway in Fayetteville and I'm also Executive Director of Watershed Conservation Resource Center. And I'm here to support the Fayetteville Stormwater Utility. As you guys know, stormwater runoff carries pollutants to our streams and our rivers and it contributes to watershed scale erosion.
 The problems from stormwater impact everyone. Sometimes it's directly when it impacts our personal property, it impacts all of our streams within the city through erosion, and it compromises recreation, and it also compromises our drinking water. A stormwater utility is a proven mechanism for providing needed resources and solutions to address
 stormwater runoff it can also provide the dollars that can be used to leverage grants to improve and protect water quality so future developments hopefully will not create problems but we have a lot of past developments that need to be addressed through retrofits and the stormwater utility can help with that so i hope you the time is now i hope you guys pass this and it starts
 Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening, City Council. Susan. Mayor Jordan. When Alan and Chris present on this ordinance, and they mention... Oh, Allie Brown. Sorry, Alexander Brown. That's my fault. When Alan and Chris present on this ordinance, and they mention older neighborhoods, to me that means working class neighborhoods, right?
 In other words, the historic tax base that funded the infrastructure newcomers and developers have benefited from. That infrastructure is now underperforming for that tax base. Fayetteville's growth is not impacting everyone in the same way. I'm here to tell you what growth looks like in older neighborhoods like the one I was raised in.
 Concrete is being poured around them. Rainfall, volatile, heavier, faster. Floodplains are expanding. Landscaping, cars, homes at risk for irreparable damage. Total loss claims for cars and homes can be a game of inches. Costs of home repairs and materials soaring. Health conditions like hypertension and anxiety are exacerbating. Retirement and savings accounts are being nicked.
 Adjusters, insurance companies are misbehaving, trying to walk away from their responsibilities. Insurance premiums, squeezing the pocketbooks and depleting discretionary income. And relationships are being tested. I came here with a story from a family that I talked to last week in preparation for this meeting. Mom is a house cleaner, dad is a construction worker, mom works seven days a week.
 Dad worked six days a week. They moved in with their in-laws in a converted garage room for three years to put a down payment on a house. And that escrow account is creating a lot of unhappiness in that home. The housing crisis really focuses on what we're going to do, what we're going to build, where we're going to put it. But I want to argue that the focus of affordable housing should be on preserving it. Why? If you don't, Fayetteville will lose a certain character.
 to it and Chris and Alan are fielding the calls for help and have made more than a sufficient case. You've seen how unforgiving the water can be, the hundreds of unserviced calls culminating in a 10-year backlog. Seven years coming here to talk about a stormwater utility and I went back through my notes from Alan's stormwater education and this note I found extraordinary. It says three inches per hour for just two hours.
 or three and that can create an event that can destroy a home and push a family out of it so please pass this tonight and give working families a win thank you thank you who else would like to address us who do you have on zoom no one on zoom has their hand raised mayor okay bring it back to the council this is an ordinance we've amended it it's on the second reading
 What discussion would the council like to have? What action would the council like to take? Oh. Okay. A couple questions. I'd like to address some of the comments that were made. One, I'll just get away really quick. The water main breaks. We are acutely aware of our issues with the water mains right now, and that is going to be a gigantic task. We did have this conversation of â€“
 pervious versus impervious ratio and i think chris i can't remember if it was you or someone else that brought up a kind of like a point like maybe we could look at this but it depends like like if someone has a big property but their property but their impervious is like right on the downside the rest of the property doesn't really help anything whereas maybe if they're at the top their impervious
 structures are at the top and then they have a large piece of land that's able to to absorb that runoff that we might be able to look at that is that
 Right, yeah. If you go back to the list of the green stormwater practices that are available or potential, one of them is sheet flow. So if you have a large piece of property and you can put your drainage that comes off of your house and your other areas and have that sheet flow across the property, soak into the property and reduce the amount of runoff that ends up going off of the property.
 that's that's one thing reforestation or having having trees there to help soak up that water is another one of the GSP so if the large pervious area that that some that some property owners are lucky enough to have is used properly then yes that absolutely can be a credit
 And the way it is now, would they have to go through an appeal process or is there a way to, could we amend this like we did with the gravel to come up with an amendment that kind of, so you don't have to go through a thousand appeals that we can add something in on the forefront to kind of.
 Possibly, I think maybe another thing to mention, we did look at what the percentage of those people who have large lots that are more than, less than 5% impervious, so somebody has a very large lot in a small amount of impervious area comparatively.
 That's less than 1% of property owners, so we're not talking about a lot of properties. I feel like we can address it with the credit program and not be too cumbersome for staff or others to do. Okay, thank you. One thing I've heard from people that have contacted me is, you know, you're going to be charging us this fee, but what are you going to do to encourage people to do projects
 best practices and storm water retention and everything. And kind of like if you just charge me a fee, then I might be disinclined to do the right thing because I'm just paying for it. And so you're kind of disin... Like I wonder if there's some carrots we can give people. And I know we will be doing credits and I think that goes a long way, but I wonder if there's anything more to really incentivize
 best practices in our community. And Kit, we've talked about this before. Somebody, it's a comment that I want to address as far as we're able to charge, through the state we're able to charge the sewer customers, but we can't just charge like the utility customers. Is that correct? That is correct. They took the easy way to try to get a stormwater utility by just saying if it's
 Everywhere that works appeared in the sewer chapter, that became stormwater. But what is the statute that we must follow? It says the council and the municipality shall have the power, and it shall be their duty by ordinance to establish just inequitable rates or charges for the use of the land and services rendered by the works, and that could be by the stormwater works,
 to be paid by each user of the sewerage system of the city. Do you think that was just kind of laziness on the part of the state when they did that? I think so, and they could go back there and change that.
 But they have not done it and this was the same language that the court applied in the hot springs case where they upheld their stormwater ordinance which also did not charge for undeveloped land and parking lots not tied to a sewer system and in septic tank users, so That's pretty sure what that language means and so we had to follow along and do the same thing the hot springs did and
 Freeloaders like me, they have a septic system on their land, get away without paying anything. Of course I don't have any pervious structures on my land either, or impervious. I'm just trying to think if I covered everything in my... I think that's most of it. One of, or a couple of people that contacted me were concerned, you know, just the optics of passing this over the holidays.
 and when nobody's really paying attention, and I get that. We have been working on it quite a long time. It is going to, at the end of the day, this is going to pass.
 one way or the other and I think we're at a pretty good product. I wouldn't mind leaving it on the second reading. I don't unless it as long as there's no harm in that and just go through the process of the readings without suspending the rules that would be my preference again, just so the public feels like they got their their fair shake and
 Chris, one more question I have for you, and this is kind of maybe a little bit outside of this, but I have a big, at our house we have a big Sweppco utility where they have the power lines going up Mount Sequoia beyond our house. And you know, they can't have trees in it, they have to keep it clear and that's understandable, but they also don't have anything that slows down or stops the drainage that comes from the top of Mount Sequoia all the way down to Huntsville Road.
 And is there, I know it's kind of, it's probably outside of our power, but is there anything we can do to work with the utilities in those situations to get them to help us? To say, can we slow down this, you know, again, from the top of the mountain to the bottom, you know, just a river when it rains?
 I think that would have to be a partnership. I don't know we could tell them what they would have to do, but I certainly think there are some BMPs they could implement. That's not a program that we've had or discussed with any utilities. But, you know, if we have the funding to do certain things like that, then yes, I think there are ways we could, you know, help them even with, you know,
 you know, management of that way so that they don't, you know, they allow it to grow up as much as possible and provide some ecosystem services even if it's not trees. Any kind of ground cover and shrubs and that sort of thing can be beneficial. Awesome, thank you. Mark. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I continue to support this for multiple reasons.
 i i like the equity aspect of it in the sense that everyone isn't paying the same fee that someone that has less than the average amount of impervious area would be paying less than someone with more than the average i'm very sympathetic to the member of the public former council member harvey who spoke on behalf of renters the one
 advantage of multi-story renters is the sense that they are dividing their square footage of impervious between the stacked units so a Three-story building would each be paying a third of their impervious area And that's only fair and equitable to those individuals my concern would be if I was a staff person and
 You want me to work on what? You want me to work on finalizing credits and finalizing programs. How much will I expend if you turn around and don't pass this ordinance? And so I'm kind of in favor of passing the ordinance so that
 The administration knows that this is something we now have marching orders. Let's get this finalized so that people have all the information they can well in advance of the date that it kicks in financially for them. The majority of our flooding takes place in streets. The older parts of town, in Ward 2 in particular,
 was much of it developed prior to there being standards that are in effect now for stormwater management and the older parts of town stand to benefit from additional infrastructure gains. We had someone contact us to say you know it's not raining more than it did in the past but when you look at the records the rain may be the same but it's falling in half the time. It's the intensity of the storms
 that appear to be overwhelming our infrastructure. And so whether you buy into more frequent storms or more intense storms, if we look at our neighbors in Rogers who had 300 year floods, a 200 year flood, a 500 year flood in a seven year window,
 and Fayetteville itself had 200-year floods in a mere three-year window. So something is going on as far as the amount of storm water that we need to deal with. And finally, if you're in favor of housing, I think you're in favor of this. The only way to keep everyone safe, existing dwellings and residents, as we hope to have
 additional infill is to ensure that we have the wherewithal to keep everyone safe. And you simply can't look at the flatlands that have been developed, and now people are having to develop the hillsides because that's the available land. There's, of course, going to be additional runoff.
 And while they do their part for their property, I can assure you the people that live downhill from existing developments or downhill from Mount Sequoia are feeling the need for us to increase our capacity to manage stormwater. And we all generate stormwater runoff. Sooner or later, it leaves our property and enters into a storm drain system. And so everything that we can do now, I think, benefits
 the necessary growth that we're looking and needing from a housing perspective. Thank you. We're on the second reading. What's the wishes? I would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Warren? Yes. Liebherr? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Stafford? No. Dr. Jones? Yes.
 ordinance to enact chapter 52 stormwater management utility fee into the Fayetteville code of ordinances any comments from council Just one it's a Clarification for I've seen some emails and so just to clarify with the public We are not going to charge you for a trail coming through your property or a city sidewalk Coming through your property. That's not happening. I've seen a lot of people who
 think that that's why am I paying for the city sidewalk you're not that's that's not a real thing so I just want to make sure people understand that anything else any final comments I have a couple mayor before you go can I go real quick I want to let you be the last word thank you and I'll be brief and I see residents leaving but really what I want to acknowledge the city staff and I really want to acknowledge residents
 This has been a long process, and our community has been incredibly patient. It's been incredibly frustrating. We've had families that have taken on water in their homes. You know, it's been an emotional process, and there are times that you can't get back. And so I really want to acknowledge all of the blood, sweat, and tears that have gone into this by CCC.
 staff, you know, by experts in this field, you know, and by, you know, residents who really believe that there was going to be solutions brought forward. And this isn't going to solve it overnight, but it's going to be a step towards us continuing to look for those solutions. So I really appreciate, you know, everyone's efforts because, I mean, this has been a long road and I came in midway. So, and it still felt like a long road. So thank you.
 Okay, the only thing I want to add to that, the first time I heard about a stormwater utility, I think we called it something different back then, it was 2001, when I was on this council. And we would start, and then we would stop, and then we would start, and then we would stop. And I thought, once I become mayor, we'll get this done. Well, we started a couple of times, and we stopped a couple of times.
 But you know what didn't stop was the flooding. And you know what didn't stop is the people moving into this city. We've grown 20,000 people in 10 years. The flooding is not getting better, but with something like this, it's not perfect. But you know what? It's a good start.
 And you know, it's like, you know, I have a sign in my office, what I used to. It's moved out now. But anyway, that being said, it says, if you never stop, if you never start, you never arrive. Susan's seen that a hundred times. I point to that sometimes. Let's go, Susan. Anyway, so if you never start, you never arrive, my friends. This is the starting point. Is it perfect? No, it's not perfect. But you know, it's not perfect.
 First time in the history of this city we are addressing these flooding issues Thank you, Allie and I appreciate you all and and your input and this is a great moment for this city You're very welcome Okay, all right that being said care would you please call the roll or yes we occur yes Yes
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Okay. Do you all want a break? I thought you might. I need to stand up for a moment. Okay. Let's get started again. We're ready to go on new business. Moving right along. Happy holidays to everybody. All right.
 A resolution for the city of federal recognize the national day of racial healing on January 21st 2025 DeAndre Yes, mayor Jordan King do you want to read the problem? Do you want to read it and be the resolution of City Council wants me it's not an ordinance, but I can read the resolution Yeah, but before that I just want to say over the past I believe two to three years that
 Mayor Jordan has Fayetteville has been the only city with the exception of Little Rock to Make such a proclamation and I believe this is the first time that it's come before the City Council And that is because of mayor Jordan's leadership And so I would be remiss if I didn't speak and I don't normally do this, but I think that it's only appropriate tonight Speak to Mayor Jordan's commitment to racial equity and
 uh as it relates to how he's led how Fayetteville has left the state um as from black history month I remember when Mayor Jordan hung the Black Lives Matter sign on Dixon Street that was my first time meeting him and he received pushback but nonetheless I think the reward was greater because almost a half a million people were talking about that throughout the country and um
 Thinking about the relationship that the African-American community here in Fayetteville has built with the police department All of that is with Mayor Jordan's leadership and so Again, I would be remiss tonight especially when we bring this forward to Just say thank you Mayor Jordan because this came out of your leadership and Fayetteville is one of the few cities in the country To continue hopefully will continue this. So thank you. I
 Thank you very much. That means a lot. So are you ready for me to read that Mayor now? Okay. A resolution for the City of Fayetteville will recognize the National Day of Racial Healing on January 21st, 2025. Whereas TRUTH Racial Healing Transformation is a comprehensive multi-year national and community-based process to bring about transformational and sustainable change,
 and whereas through truth racial hearing healing transformation partners address the historic and contemporary effects of racism in their communities and institutions and work to replace the deeply held belief system that fuels racism with one that sees the inherent value of all people whereas this holistic approach addresses mind and heart the interpersonal and systemic
 and places the power of authentic, trust-based solidarity at the center. And whereas racism impacts all of us, whether we are aware of it or not, and the effects of racism are evident everywhere, in the places where we live, learn, work, and play, in our social interactions, in our systems and policies.
 And whereas people experience these effects when they take their children to school, apply for jobs, rent or buy a home, visit a doctor, try to access healthy food and interactions with the police and more. And whereas systematically racism is one of the biggest obstacles to solving the challenges we face in our communities. And whereas truth, racial healing, transformation participants build trust,
 build relationships, trust, and collective power at the community and institutional level, and relationships lay the groundwork for powerful systemic change as community partners re-envision and reshape their institutions, policies, and practices.
 and whereas racial healing is at the heart of racial equity and is about the people work that leads to transformation of systems, the telling of hard truths about past wrongs and present consequences, repairing the harm of racism, replacing the deeply held system that fuels racism with ones that sees the inherent value of all people in the authentic relation building across real and perceived differences.
 And whereas without racial healing and building trust, changes in policies or practices are short-lived. And whereas through healing and relationship building, we can collectively develop new values that affect our everyday decision in areas of policymaking, hiring, education, and housing, just to name a few. Now therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxford hereby recognizes January 21st of 2025 that it is and should be recognized in Fayetteville as a national day of racial healing. Okay, thank you. All right, any questions from the council or anything? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who'd like to address us on this topic that's in the chat okay do we have anybody on no sir okay i'll bring it back to the council this is a resolution i motion we pass the resolution second we have a motion and second to pass resolution any final comments from the
 I just want to add that the work that we are the work that the council has supported the black historic district the recent the studying of Yes, thank you. Thank you of Racial equity and racism is a public health crisis. These are all commitments and I know that there is there's been conversations and
 as it relates to proclamations and things of that nature, but it's so good that we're moving toward more practices and implementing more policy-based things that are going to move our community forward. But acknowledging this in Fayetteville means a lot to the entire community. So again, I appreciate it so very much. And we know that these initiatives definitely make Fayetteville better, and it makes us all proud to be
 Fable resident, so thank you. Well said DeAndre. Okay anybody else? Caravage please call the roll. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Okay, let's go to number two.
 An ordinance to amend 97.015 operating hours in Chapter 97, Article 2, Park Operations, Administration, and Enforcement Code of Federal to provide for extended hours in the upper ramble. Kit. Whereas the city's newest park, the ramble, is located in the entertainment district, a very active part of town and adjacent to the Razorback Regional Greenway.
 whereas typical park hours are from daylight until 11 p.m. except for the lakes which close at sunset and whereas after consulting with the Police Department operations division of the Public Works Department determined that the most appropriate hours for the Upper Ramble are from daylight until 3 a.m. and whereas this time frame acknowledges that many businesses in the area close on the weekends at 2 a.m. and people may travel through the park at that time and
 Whereas this time frame also coincides with the ability of the Dixon Street Police Substation to check the park at shift change and will allow maintenance staff to address any pressing issues prior to the park reopening at daylight. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 97.015, Operating Hours. In Chapter 97, Article 2, Park Operations, Administration and Enforcement, and an Act of Replacement, Section 97.015, as follows.
 Section 97.015, Operating Hours. Subsection A, City parks shall be open to the public every day of the year from daylight until 11 p.m. Subsection B, Exceptions. Number 1, Shared use paved trails as designed on the Parks and Trails Interactive Map shall be open to the public 24 hours every day.
 2. The Upper Ramble shall be open to the public every day from daylight until 3 a.m. 3. Operating hours for City Lakes are governed by Section 97.070.
 Section 4 city staff is authorized to extend the operating hours of a park when reasonable and necessary To accommodate a tournament or special event and number five any park or portion of park Maybe he could close to the public by the city at any time for any interval of time Okay Thanks mayor. Good evening mayor council
 As Kit described, we are requesting to establish hours for the Upper Ramble. We're all very excited that it is near completion. And we had several conversations with groups including the Police Department, our Parks, Natural Resources and Cultural Affairs Advisory Board, the Downtown Fayetteville Coalition, and have brought forward this proposal of establishing hours from daylight until 3 a.m. for your consideration.
 Knowing that many of the businesses on the weekends close at 2 a.m., we recognize that folks will need to travel through the park to get to where they're going next. And we felt like this was the most appropriate closing time. This also, you know, it does extend park hours and access from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m.
 and folks were comfortable with that. This timeframe creates a window to address any necessary maintenance issues that may come up. It also gives us time to irrigate. We have a very kind of concentrated lawn, so we wanna be able to do these activities while the park is closed, and we're not disrupting programs.
 Other minor changes to the ordinance include consolidating the existing exceptions to the standard hours into the operating hours section And as kit mentioned these exceptions include the lakes and certain shared use paid trails such as the Razorback Regional Greenway So I am happy to take any questions. What questions do we have in the council?
 I've got a question. I understand you want an emergency clause on this. Is that right? That would be most helpful. We are looking to open this park up as soon as possible. Well, I heard that rumor so I drafted an amendment to this particular ordinance to place an emergency clause on that so it's up to the City Council whether they want to amend the ordinance to do that. Thank you. Okay. I'll make a motion to amend the ordinance to add the emergency clause.
 Second. We have a motion and second to add the emergency clause. Kara, would you please call the roll? Warren? Yes. Weaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Okay. Any other questions or anything? Bob, do you have something? Okay. Okay. You don't have anything.
 All right We'll take some public comment then everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic Please give us your name and address Those present chamber are allowed to speak first of just paying those I'm gonna speak after that who would like to address this is in the Chamber, okay. Do you have anybody on set? No, sir, okay? I will bring it back
 To the council, this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. I motion we suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Moore? No. Leaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 and orders to amend section 97015 operating hours in chapter 97 article 2 park operations administration and enforcement of the code of fable to provide for extended hours in the upper ramble and to declare an emergency and let me read the emergency clause because i didn't read it with the first reading of this section two emergency clause in order to allow the opening of the upper ramble on december 30th 2024 and the use of the upper ramble plaza on new year's eve
 and reserve the peace, health, welfare, and safety of our citizens, the City Council hereby determines an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective on December 30, 2024.
 Thank you, Mayor. I was no vote because I was pending trying to get the floor to be able to make a comment before vote. Oh, sorry. So as I brought up at agenda session, first I want to acknowledge, yes, there were many groups and there's been different conversations about this. I'm reading myself back to when I was a taxpayer and I went to the polls and I made that selection to pay for this. And I go back to, given the very uniqueness of this.
 piece of property and thinking about downtowns and other areas and how I can access them. I never in a million years thought that we would establish Park Hours. Honestly, it really surprised me when I saw this come forward. We as a community are becoming so incredibly diverse.
 We move through, and you heard especially with our renters who are working seven days a week and working multiple jobs, that people's lives are happening where they live them at so many different times. And so I want to acknowledge again that this is an extension of ours for the parks, but I also think there's some hurdles in this and some potential complexities in how we execute this.
 With the trail running through this and being transportation, I mean, we have to acknowledge that people as they're on their travels and might be commuting, you know, decent distances, might have a need to linger in a space to rest, to recuperate, to linger in a space that's maybe healing and meditative. You know, what happens when they do that at 4 in the morning? I'm not quite sure with our park hours being closed. Okay.
 What about like my household, my colicky baby that I got to experience unfortunately. I hope most households don't have to have that. My husband would drive around from 3 a.m. to 6 a.m. many times, but he also, because we're at the trail system, he took my daughter for walks
 What happens when those new parents who have that colicky finicky baby pause at 5 a.m. before sunrise? I, again, understand the thought that went into extending the hours. I also want us to start to begin to think as we are leaders, you know, in our state and looking at and trying to find the ways that we create those third spaces. Third spaces are so direly needed, and when they've been lost,
 created in a way that are 24 hours a day. The data has shown that it's increased public safety and public health. And so I really want to challenge us to really think about that. I don't want to hold this item back because I think this park is incredibly important. I really think that we need to really be monitoring and understanding what those interactions look like and what that population is that needs to potentially use the park. You know, something else I didn't mention is that, you know, we're still talking about whether or not we're going to go back and forth with like daylight savings.
 And so, so many people I know start their day at 4 a.m. and they exercise, et cetera. And so, again, it's our trail system. And then maybe they're going to stop and do push-ups or sit-ups or what have you. So just trying to think about as we add more neighbors who move through the world in different ways and need to access space that's safe, accessible, affordable, that we really, I hope, will find opportunities to lead in this and find a way that we can create those 24-hour lingering spaces that can be available to meet our residents in all the ways that they need.
 Thank you. I think Scott may want to. Scott. Alison, I should have asked this question when you were up here, but her comments jogged my memory that I had this particular question. I'm assuming you've done your research into cities throughout the country, some that I would call 24-hour cities that never close. What's their park policies in those cities like I'm asking?
 Sure, yeah, we definitely did look into that and there are, you know, there are a lot of cities out there that term themselves 24-hour cities or 18-hour cities and even in those locations, their parks have closing hours for the most part. So it's pretty common practice to have park closing hours. Again, it does create a very needed window for maintenance and operations. Also, in those few places that may have 24-hour park open, they have parking.
 Staff that go along with that Which at this point we do not have so yeah, that's what we found Yeah Thanks Scott for asking that I think that it was kind of along the lines of something I was gonna be asking but this is gonna be open later than any of our other parks. Is that correct? That's correct. By half of a workday like by four hours or so and we're not gonna be
 I mean I know our trail part of it is going to be open 24-7. Through the lower ramble we have benches on those trails. Do we ever house people that happen to sit down and take a break in the middle of the night? Are we like actively, that might be a question for Chief Reynolds, I don't know, are we actively like saying you can't sit down?
 nothing i'm aware of i'd like to let you know yeah if you don't mind uh council member stafford ask that question again i'm sorry oh just like i mean right now there are benches on parts of the trail we're not we're not like actively going out and spending a lot of resources like ousting people from taking a seat for a few minutes or anything are we or we're not prosecuting anybody
 Any of this? No, I think you guys know me well enough and you know my department that we're pretty compassionate about those that are using our trails and our parks and pretty realistic and pretty common sense approach. I mean, a lot of folks that go to the parks after hours.
 they may not be aware that it's closed. We just kindly inform them that, hey, the park's closed. You would mind not staying here and move along until you come back when it opens during the day and to answer your question, no, as long as they're going through the trails, if someone just needs to sit down and take a break.
 You know, we're pretty reasonable. Yeah, I would think so. Yeah, we show a lot of discretion when we can and, you know, just explain the rules to them. And I think like this council's mentioned many times as being certainly our legislative branch of government, you guys make laws for us and make ordinances for us. And you hope that the folks in our city just follow those rules. And we do the same.
 And predominantly they do especially when it comes to things that are what I would say is pretty minor like this. Yeah Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome. I'd like to suspend the rules and move on to the third and final reading second More yes, yes Yes, yes Yes
 Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. In order to amend section 97.015 operating hours in chapter 97 article 2 park operations and administration and enforcement of the code of Fayetteville to provide for extended hours in the upper ramble and to declare an emergency. Okay what final comments do we have? I tell you folks this upper ramble is going to be
 special place. Thank you all. I'd like to thank our mayor for this trail system was largely like a large portion of it was done during your time and you put a lot of effort into that. I thank you for that. Thank you Bob. One of the best things I've ever seen. It is absolutely, nobody's got anything like it.
 this region probably in this state and I want to thank you council for having the vision also to work on this and the people for passing the bond that provided the funding this so folks this is your ramble it's not mine or anybody else's but it's ours together and then council I think that is great accomplishment great all right care which please call row
 Moore? Yes. Wieker? Yes. Vernon? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jemins? Yes. Thank you all. And I would move that we pass the emergency clause. I forgot about that one. Yes. We have a motion to pass the emergency clause.
 Care if you could please call them up. Moore? Yes. Waker? Yes. Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Oh, excuse me. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. I don't think she's going to magically appear.
 that's she couldn't hear us in Morocco I'm sure all right number number three an ordinance to rezone the property described rezoning petition RZN 2024-65 for approximately 0.60 acres located west of 3296 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 from RA residential agricultural to RSF4 residential single-family four units per acre kit
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description exhibit, be both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agriculture, to RSF4, Residential Single Family, four units per acre.
 and section two that the city council the city of fable are excited by men's official zoning map of the city of fable the reluctant zoning change provided in section one okay john mary thank you uh jonathan your name much tonight you're welcome uh this property is in southeast fayetteville in ward one it includes about 0.6 acres on the north side of huntsville road or highway 16 if you prefer between crossover to the west and the west fork of the white river to the east
 The lot is undeveloped and it seems to have been that way since the property's annexation in the 1960s into Fayetteville. The request before council is to rezone the property from its existing RA residential agricultural zoning district to RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre.
 Staff is recommending in favor of this request. There are a few reasons that factored into that. The first and foremost is that this is almost an exclusively single family area, although the lot sizes do vary widely from anywhere from around half an acre in size to over or about 30 acres in size.
 And with the exception of the mobile home park, you can see an orange on the right side of the screen. It is an almost uniformly single family area. The RSF4 zoning district complements this with the allowance for larger lots and single family homes.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, staff finds this request to be consistent with both the future land use map designation of a residential neighborhood and the very limited number of infill attributes that you might expect from this portion of the city. The RSF4 zoning district is the lowest increment of zoning allowance that would make this a developable lot of land.
 which factors into at least one of the two issues we considered. I'll touch on tree preservation first, however, with this project keeping the tree preservation requirements the same. It's 25% under both RA and RSF4. And the second item, which I alluded to a moment ago, which is the nonconformance of the existing law. It's zoned agriculturally today, which requires two acres of land and 200 feet of street frontage, which this law has neither of.
 Again, reserving it to RSF4 is the smallest increment that would allow it to be developable with a single family home.
 Accordingly, staff feels this is a reasonable request and we're recommending in favor of it. The Planning Commission felt similarly and forwarded it to City Council unanimously by vote of 7-0, asserting that it is compatible. And to date we've not received any public comment on the item and I'm happy to take any questions the Council has. And Mayor, last I checked, Ryan Stanton was available as the applicant online for this item. Okay, but it's kept at, you know, like speak for the Council, you have 10 minutes.
 Go ahead, Mr. Stanton. Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kurth. He did a great job explaining this. I have nothing really further to add. However, every interested party that we've had on this lot would like to build a single-family home, which is kind of the need for the rezoning at this point. I have nothing further. Thanks. Okay. Any questions for the applicant or the staff?
 Okay, then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber?
 anybody no sir okay this is an I would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading all right most in the second to go to the second read care which please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 In order to rezone the property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 2024-55 for approximately six-tenths of an acre located west of 3296 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre.
 I would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Care which please call the roll. Moore. Yes. Bledeker. Yes. Arnon. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Stafford. Yes.
 Yes. Dr. Jettins. Yes. In order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-55 for approximately .6 acres located west of 3296 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 4 Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre. Any final comments to council?
 All right, Kerridge, please call the roll. Warren? Yes. Leeker? Yes. Ferner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Okay, number four. An ordinance to authorize payment of survival spouse benefits 50% of Mayors and Friends statutory retirement benefits to Mrs. Diana Jordan and to grant an annual cost of living benefit increase of up to 3%. Kipp?
 Whereas Lionel Jordan was first elected to the City Council in 2000, began his service in January of 2001. And whereas Councilmember Jordan was re-elected to a second term which began in 2005. And whereas Mayor Jordan was elected Mayor and began his first term in 2009.
 And whereas Mayor Jordan was re-elected three more times, will end his service to Fayetteville as by far the longest serving mayor in Fayetteville's history with 16 years of continued service as mayor. And whereas Mayor Jordan's continued service as either council member or mayor totals 24 years. And whereas Mayor Jordan's wife, Diana, has faithfully assisted him throughout those 24 years of his service, and has also accompanied him to an amazing number of banquets, receptions, and other city functions.
 Yes. And whereas it is proper and appropriate to authorize and grant the right to spousal survivor benefits of 50% of the mayor's retirement benefits pursuant to ACA 24-12-123 subsection B to Mrs. Diana Jordan. And whereas it is also proper and appropriate to authorize the statutorily authorized cost of living benefit not to exceed 3% annually.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby authorizes the right to surviving spousal benefits to Mrs. Diana Jordan in accordance with the requirements...
 of ACA section 2412-123, subsection B, section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby authorized as an annual cost of living increase in Mayor Jordan's retirement benefits of up to 3% or the Consumer Price Index, whichever is lower, pursuant to section 24-12-123, subsection B, subsection 5. Okay. Mike, please.
 Thank you. There's no reason to discuss this much further. We explained it at the agenda session. This is good and fitting and just for the service that's been rendered to our community. I've received only out of 100,000 residents that express their interest in the
 genuine love affection and respect only one emailed me to have questions and they simply misunderstood that there was already a retirement benefit for which the mayor was eligible and we're simply extending the survivor benefits And so that was the only question out of a hundred thousand people so it is our privilege as the current sitting City Council to bestow this upon your spouse. Thank you.
 any other questions okay what public comment do we have oh yes the under thank you for your service mayor jordan thank you all we appreciate you this and thank you for bringing this forward thank you okay yes uh yeah we need to take public comment sorry i got lost in the moment yes well after being here all night i'm going to be very brief i'm eva madison i live in ward 3.
 And I want to thank you mayor Jordan for your longtime service to the city of Fayetteville You have given your heart and soul to this city. And when you say don't you just love this city? I have to say don't you just love this mayor? You are a treasure and I know as the daughter of a public servant as one myself I know the burden that public service is
 takes on your family and so i'm so grateful to um council member weeder and berna for bringing this forward to thank you and to thank diana thank you mayor anybody else i'll add that um in 2009 when mayor jordan got elected he held the fayetteville ford conference and he invited the city of fayetteville to come share their dreams
 Fayetteville with him for three separate sessions. He listened to anybody who wanted to share their dreams about Fayetteville. I was one of those people.
 And it resulted in me getting involved in politics where I didn't see myself in that space. And I got a phone call one day that said, you know, City of Fayetteville Mayor Jordan answered it and said, Would you like to leave the creative economy of Fayetteville? And it was such an honor to receive that phone call. I'm so grateful. You deserve this honor and everything. I wanted you to be mayor forever.
 And I told you that so many times, but things change. They do. And I'm so grateful for everything that you've done for us, for this city. Thank you. Thank you so much. This is a rigged deal. Can I speak? I don't live in Fayetteville anymore. I just want to say thank you. And my mom, I've seen her for the past 24 years.
 not existing like that a whole lot. I'm so happy to get my dad back. Thank you so much for being in this course. Dad, I love you. You've done an amazing job. And I'm also proud of you in whatever you do. And I'm so glad to support you. I love you. Love you too. Thank you. And thank you all. I would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second.
 Oh, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerwood, please call the vote. Moore? Yes. Weicker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 in order to authorize payment of survival spousal benefits of 50 percent of mayor jordan's statutory retirement benefits to mrs diana jordan and to grant an annual cost of living benefit increase up to three percent i would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion second go to third and finally care which please call more yes yes yes
 Yes. Dr. Kirk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. In order to authorize payment of survival spousal benefits of 50% of Mayor Jordan's statutory retirement benefits to Mrs. Diana Jordan and to grant an annual cost of living benefit increase up to 3%. And as a final comment, if I may, Mr. Mayor, this city is too large and complex.
 for anyone who attends 260 events a year to manage this organization on a day-to-day basis. And I would wish to expand my professional courtesy and thanks to your chief of staff, who
 who has been hospitable to all new council members coming on, because we know that you never pretended to do it alone. And I'm afraid of her. So when she says to do something, I do it. So you chose wisely. And I commend you for that selection. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to echo some of the comments that have been made. But when I got on the council two years ago,
 Mayor, you and I probably were on the opposite sides of the political spectrum, and you probably thought, uh-oh. And I might have thought the same thing. But in the two years I've been on council, I never one time felt like you disrespected me, and I never one time felt like that you were not looking for what was best for the city of Fayetteville. And as a public official, that's all I could ask. As a citizen of Fayetteville, that's all I could ask.
 So I just wanted you to know that it's been an honor to serve with you. And I consider you a friend. Thank you, Mayor. I remember when I moved back to Fayetteville, I ran into you at the farmer's market. And immediately it was like, oh, this is so welcoming to be back in Fayetteville. And here's the mayor. He's so open. He's just wrapping his arms around everybody that is here or has recently moved back.
 And then I met you again like a second time, and you remembered my name. And I was flabbergasted. I was like, wow, you remember my name. And you were just as friendly and welcoming and have been throughout our entire relationship up to the city council. And it has been such a privilege. And you have been such a mentor to opening people's hearts, my heart in particular,
 and just welcoming all these different ideas and perspectives and just the generosity of your service has been tremendous. You've made a huge impression on me and I look forward to seeing you around town, whether it's at the farmer's market or wherever it might be or on the trail, maybe we'll go biking together. So thank you so much for everything that you've done for our city and for me personally.
 Mayor, I was raised in Fayetteville and then gone for a quarter of a century. When I came back with my wife, we kind of got dragged into this whole human rights ordinance thing. Your support during that was amazing, but it was after that that really every time we saw you just walking down the street or whatever, I got to tell my friends, I'm on hugging terms with the mayor.
 And that personal connection you're able to make not only with me and my wife, but I think there's a lot of people in this town that aren't in that same thing. It means a lot, and it's one of the reasons I'm sitting here today. And I'm glad that I've got the privilege of serving underneath. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else?
 Oh yeah. I just, you know, when I said you'd been a mentor to me, I really meant it. And I'm not from Madison County, but my family is. And so whenever I ask Lionel Jordan anything, he always told me the truth and he always answered me the way somebody from Madison County would. Like just lay it out, just point blank, this is what it is, this is how I see it. And I remember telling him.
 something I don't even remember what it was, something had happened on council and I said, I called him and I said, I just, I don't know that I can work with these people anymore. I don't know if I can do this. And he said, yes you can. That's who you are. You do this, you get through it, you will all figure it out, everything will be okay. And he was always right. It will always be okay if we just keep working together. And he sets that standard that you work with, work with everybody in the community.
 That's not a bunch of BS. That's who that man is. And I really appreciate his mentorship. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Mayor Jordan, you may not remember this, but I think Chief Reynolds wasn't Chief then. Chief Tabor was. And we were in your office. And I'll never forget this. It was Chief Tabor, you, and myself. And we had a discussion. And I left heated. I was mad. You messaged me. You called me.
 And you met with me, with Raven Cook and myself, and we sat down and a very similar conversation that's kind of like what Sonia mentioned. And you met with us for about a couple of hours, and then that's when you started the African American Advisory Council. And it was a group of us. And every, when people talk about Northwest Arkansas,
 They always talk about one place that's very, it feels different. And that's Fayetteville. Not Springdale. It's not Rogers. It's not Benville. They talk about Fayetteville. And I remember a friend of mine came and did a comedy show. And, well, he came and he emceed an event. And he said, hey, I've got a cool mayor.
 And then another friend of mine came and did an event, and he said, David has a cool mare. And then there were celebrities that came, and they all said the same thing. So you've left a legacy. And I don't think you realize the number of people that you've touched that don't even look like you. You've touched on lots of people. I had dinner with a young man Sunday night.
 and he talked about you and how you touched him and how he talked about the police department and to hear a young a young black man say man the police in Fayetteville cool they don't bother anybody it's different it means a lot Fayetteville we it's something special here and it's not perfect but we have to give credit where credit is due regardless of any disagreements we owe a lot of this to Mayor Jordan Mayor Jordan leadership
 trickles down and your inclusiveness has set the tone and we have got to carry it forth. We have to. You've done something that no other mayor in this region and in this state has done and we've got to carry, we've got to push it, whether it's Pride, whether it's Black History Month. You did it. When nobody else did, when nobody else would listen to me, a young man from Joyner, you did and the community loves you and
 St. James, the fraternity. The Divine Nine. The Divine Nine. We love you. And you're considered a legend, one of the greats. And so we, when people think about Fayetteville, they can't help but mention Lionel Jordan. And I think that that will be forever. So thank you, Mayor Jordan. Thank you, John. Anybody else? Oh, yes, Kip. Sometimes I get to talk. I think I get to talk tonight. Okay.
 I want to tell you, Mayor, that it's been one of the prime honors of my life to work with you the last 24 years in the interest of Fayetteville. I've watched you do very well as an alderman and run meetings as a vice mayor and then really blossom when you became mayor. And you demonstrated how you could bring people together and the fighting and stuff that had been...
 evident in some of the earlier councils. It faded away under your leadership because you knew how to treat people and to give honor to people and not to throw anybody under the bus. You took responsibility for anything that you needed to do and you gave the honor and credit out to everybody else and you set a
 very hard act you're a very hard act to follow because you set a standard of how you ran these meetings Which is very difficult for anyone else to be able to do But I just wanted to tell you it's been my great honor to work with you and and best luck in the future And we'll be thinking about you Mayor Jordan if I could say something, you know I've been here of course not as long as kit has though. I get to bother him a lot with all my questions and
 I just want to say I appreciate you. The last five years and going into the next four years, I will take lessons that I have learned from you, the Chief of Staff, Susan Norton, and let's please make sure and recognize the Chief Financial Officer, Paul Becker. I will take those lessons to the end of my professional career. I think that you have encompassed what Fayetteville is.
 When I first moved here, I saw you walking around. And I asked my husband, I said, oh, I was like, who is that man right there? He goes, well, Kara, didn't you know the mayor here walks everywhere? And I said, from that moment on, I didn't get to meet you that day. And I said, one day, I hope to get to work with that gentleman. And I got that opportunity.
 I've enjoyed hearing your feedback over the years and I enjoy what you've done for the city My girls live in it every day along with us. So I want to say thank you very much. I appreciate you. Thank you care
 Mayor, I'm not going to give my remarks tonight because guess what? We have a reception for you Friday at 2 o'clock from 2 to 5, and we hope everyone can join, but we will be here in City Hall in this room, and I will open the ceremony and express myself then. But as you know, I certainly appreciate your service and leadership and mentorship. I have two other announcements. You have what? I have two other announcements.
 We got a vote. Haven't voted yet, sorry. I think I'm doing pretty good. I do want to say one thing. And as much as I love you all and it's been great working with you, tonight is not necessarily me. It's my wife. And I wasn't going to participate in the salary thing.
 years ago, and then I had a life-changing moment about 2022. Chief Reynolds was there. He remembers that. He was standing outside the ambulance. They didn't know if I was going to make it or not. I'd had a heart attack, and then weeks later, I had two strokes, and they thought I was done, but I wasn't done, and they said I made a remarkable recovery, and I have, it did, it did
 scare me and this is why this is important to me and it's important to my wife is because this particular retirement plan if i pass away she has nothing and i don't want to leave my wife with nothing and i uh i uh decided to use this
 particular item as an option if I decide to do it. Now there's the city retirement too, so I'm supposed to go Thursday. I had to move kind of quickly, a little faster than I anticipated, but I will look at the options that's available to me and will make the best decision I know how to make for my family because at the end of the day,
 All these titles go away. All these things go away. And the only thing you're going to have left is your family. So treasure it, love it, protect it, take care of it to your last ounce of energy. And that's what I'm trying to do here by having this particular option. When I saw that there was no survival benefits for it, I thought, that ain't right. And that particular law needs to be changed. Anyway.
 I have said enough. Karen, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Funch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Dr. Jones? Yes. Susan, you're on. So the two announcements that I almost jumped the gun to. Sorry, Mayor. Sorry, Mayor.
 So as everybody knows Christmas holidays are coming and next week and the week after we have City Hall closures on the Christmas Day and on New Year's Day What that means for trash service is something most residents are curious about and so Wednesday's service will be picked up on
 will be moved, everybody's service, residential trash service will be moved forward one day. And so Wednesday will go to Thursday, Thursday will go to Friday. So everyone will get their trash picked up, but it's just one day off because of the Christmas and New Year's holiday.
 The second announcement, as you all heard tonight, thank you for passing the emergency clause. We will have, and the press release is going out in the morning if it hasn't already, we will have the grand opening of the ramble and that will be held on Monday, December the 30th at 2 p.m. Yes, ma'am. So we certainly hope everyone can come. Yes, ma'am, Teresa.
 I don't know if you all have looked at your schedules lately or not, but our next agenda session meeting is New Year's Eve. And I wondered if we could maybe move it till Monday, which is the 30th, and it would be after the opening of the ramble. So I didn't know how that worked with everybody's schedule. How will that impact committee meetings? So we would do committee meetings also following that? Because I know we were looking at that for transportation.
 um i assumed that that would happen but um yeah i think chris and i've talked about transportation committee and i'm not certain that there are some that there are items that are at that must be heard that that night and so he was a little he was going to get with you all but it could be that there that you could skip that one i mean it could be he needs to confirm but the the one item for transportation that was that had had a timeliness
 issue is no longer a timely issue. So Chris will notify you all but I'm sure that that Monday evening would be fine if you need to have one.
 Okay. I'm fine with it. Can we legally do that without public notice? You can do that. You can either do it by unanimous consent if everybody agrees or we need a motion and a second to change the agenda meeting to the 30th as opposed to 31st. Is this room available or is there another committee meeting here? Hold on.
 planning i think so okay no plan um hang on uh there is nothing on the calendar uh for the third i'm fine with that one do you agree with that uh city clerk kara i don't see anything on the calendar we can review that and get back to you okay
 Now, I just want to leave one parting word to council. And I know I seem to be stringing this out longer than I should. I'm putting it off as long as I can. Anyway, I loved working with you all. As a council member, I was there. Vice mayor, I was there. We passed a budget one year while I was vice mayor, which was, that was a rodeo. But I want you to know that.
 Always work together as a team. You know, I like what John Locke said. He said, if everybody regarded everybody's rights more than they do their own, we would live in a utopia. But it's when you think your rights is more important than the next person, that's why we have to have laws and why we have to have ordinances to level the playing field. I don't think you use playing field. But you know, be good to one another, take care of one another.
 and work together as a team, and you'll move this place a lot further than I have, and a lot farther than all the council members, all the councils I've worked with. And in my closing thing, I wish Mayor-elect Molly Braun all the success in the world, because you've inherited a very fine city council. So be good to one another. Take care of one another. And I love you. We're adjourned.