i want to call to order the city council meeting for december the 19th 2023. care would you please call the roll moore here whittaker here bernard here bunch here turk here herzberg stafford jones here
 Mayor Jordan. Here, would you join me in a pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the nominating committee report. I think you got that? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor.
 The nominating committee consisted of myself as chair, Teresa Turk, Councilmember Bunch, and Councilmember Stafford, and we wish to make the following recommendations to the full council for appointment. For the Active Transportation Advisory Committee, for a term expiring December 31st of 24, Derek
 with terms expiring December 31st in 2025, Annalee Little and Brady Carman. For the Airport Board, with both terms expiring December 31st of 2024, Richard Rost and Charles Wallace. For the Audit Committee, with the term ending December 31st of 2026, Ann Garrity.
 For the Black Heritage Preservation Commission, with the term ending December 31st of 2026, Joetta Walker. For the Environmental Action Committee, with the term ending June 30th, 2025, Todd Yeslow. And with terms ending December 31st, 2026, Glenda Patterson and Jeff Pummel.
 for the Fayetteville Public Library Board of Trustees, with the term ending April 1st of 2025, Carla Davis. For that inaugural Fayetteville Youth Advisory Council, with terms ending March 31st of 2025, Grayson Brown, Brendan Klaus, Katherine Hinton, and Elizabeth Robinson.
 And an additional four with the term ending March 31st of 2026 is Mia Alansari, Alyosha Wood, Blythe Heimer, and Elietta Sciola. For the Housing Authority Board of Commissioners with the term ending December 28th of 2028, Deborah Humphrey. For the Parks, Natural Resources, and Cultural Affairs Advisory Board,
 All with terms ending December 31st of 2026, Korab Varanova-Chi, and I apologize, Elizabeth Cunningham, and Melissa Zabecki. For the Public Facilities Board, ending December 31st of 2028, Aaron Berg. And that's the list of appointees we're recommending, Mr. Mayor. Okay, I will entertain a motion and a second to it.
 to accept the nominees so moved second motion second to accept the nominees caregivers please call the roll more yes yes yes yes yes Hertzberg Stafford Jones yes okay thank you all now let's move on to consent agenda
 Number one, approval of the December 5th, 2023 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to approve amendment number one to contract with the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $153,104 to provide public recreation services for senior residents of federal. Number three.
 a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of 12 354 dollars representing donation revenue to the park's natural resources and cultural affairs department number four a resolution to approve one-year contract with ecos connect llc for backflow tracking services with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms in the amount not to exceed 50 000 per year
 5. A resolution to accept a quote from Prime Electric Group Incorporated in the amount of $45,302 for electrical upgrades to the Gully Water Pump Station and to approve project contingency in the amount of $9,060.40.
 Number six, a resolution to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $550,000 for the purchased water amount due to increased water usage.
 7. A resolution to approve the change order number 2 to the Flintco LLC in the amount of $5,345,663 for work associated with the construction of Fire Station 2 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is the Firefighting Facilities Improvement Bond Project.
 number eight a resolution authorized contract for lalc percent rfq 23-01 for the design of trail of a trail bridge across hamstring creek in the amount of 122 thousand two hundred dollars to approve a project contingency any amount of ten thousand dollars and approved budget adjustment number nine a resolution to award bid number 23-40 in the authorized contract advanced brothers
 any amount of $745,175.90 for asphalt surface treatments for city streets and parking lots and to approve project contingency any amount of $75,000. Number 10, a resolution to authorize contract with
 TSW incorporated pursuant to RFQ 22-01 for design services associated with phase one improvements to Walker Community Park for an amount not to exceed $203,075 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $10,000 and approve budget adjustment. This is a park improvement bond project. Number 11, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign
 Subrecipient agreements with Seven Hills Homeless Center and its partner agencies pursuant to a resolution number 233-23 and RFP 23-12 any amount of 1 million six hundred thousand dollars for a project to address housing instability and federal number 12 a resolution authorized acceptance of a 20
 23, Boston Mountain Recycling Grant, any amount of $9,000 for a pilot curbside food waste collection program and to approve budget adjustment.
 13. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $40,957 representing donation revenue to the Animal Services Division. 14. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $9,352 representing donation revenue to the Community Resources Department.
 15. A resolution to approve the purchase of uniforms and related product services and solutions from Galls Incorporated on an as-needed basis through May 31, 2025 and any future renewal periods. 16. A resolution to approve the purchase of bunker gear and related product services and solutions from Galls.
 from line manufacturing through NAFCO on an as needed basis presented to source well co-operative purchasing contract through May 7th, 2024 and any future renewal periods. Number 17, a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $1,028
 representing donation revenue to the federal police department. Number 18, a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $41,340, recognizing revenue associated with federal and state law enforcement forfeitures. I will entertain a motion to accept and send agendas read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept and send agendas read. Caravans, please call the roll. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Berna. Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Okay. Stafford? Jones? Yes. Okay. All right, we don't have any unfinished business. Yay. Yay. I'm not used to this. It's been two meetings in a row. Yay. All right. All right, let's go to new business. Number one, a resolution to request the United States Postal Service
 maintain all current mail process operations in federal. Scott, I believe this is yours. Thank you, Mayor. I'm bringing this resolution for the council to consider because of the
 potential movement of the mail processing center from Fayetteville. I felt like we as city leaders should show support for our postal workers, but also for our community because this could adversely affect our postal delivery in the area. And it quite honestly doesn't make a whole lot of sense what they're doing because the growth of northwest Arkansas, why are we taking services away?
 So the meeting that they had here a couple weeks ago was less than informative. So that just heightened, I felt, the need to move forward with this resolution. So I hope you'll consider it.
 Yes. I have a question. You know, I did not get to attend that meeting that didn't sound like it was real informative anyway. So is our processing center for the whole region or is it, does Bentonville have its own or? It's a regional. Regional. Okay. You're right. It does not make sense. No, it doesn't make sense. Any anything else? All right. Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. And those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this? It's in the chamber on this topic. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? Susan Haynes. I have no one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. I will bring it back to the council. This is a resolution.
 Yes, Sarah. I just wanted to thank Councilmember Burner for bringing this forward and fully supportive. So obviously it doesn't make logical sense to think of over 200 miles that our mail would get trucked over to Oklahoma City that added time.
 at a time that our population, you know, when you're getting 33 new people every single day and have some of the major employers of the nation in our backyard. So I look forward to supporting this, and I hope we'll be able to send that in during the public comment period to be included for consideration. Okay. Sure.
 If no one has anything else, I'd like to make a motion we approve the resolution. Second. Okay. Is there any final comments from the council? I have just about three points I want to make. Okay. Sorry. I did attend that meeting. I did speak at that meeting myself and Council Member Stafford, I believe, spoke.
 And Steve Clark from Chamber of Commerce spoke. And the thing that really I thought was interesting presentation didn't last about five minutes. If that, it was just too fast. I didn't really even know this was coming until I was contacted by some of my union colleagues.
 that told me that this is going to happen. They were concerned about job laws. I don't think, I don't see how you think, they think that you can move something to Oklahoma City and make it faster and process. I really don't, it doesn't make sense. And I think the presentation was way too fast. I don't think they've had enough public comment on it.
 Job loss is never good in any equation like this. So I'm certainly in support of what you brought, Scott. I want to thank you for bringing it forward. And I hope the Postal Service will.
 change their mind. To me, Mr. Mayor, it's not just Washington and Benton County. You've got all these other counties. Madison County and other where does their mail go to be sorted? It's this whole entire city. Oklahoma City. If this works out for the Postal Service has anything to do with it. It does not make sense since we are growing rapidly in this area. It just
 i just don't see how it would make any sense to me all right anything else all right care which police call broke more yes whittaker yes fair enough yes yes turk yes jones yes all right okay thank you all let's go to number two resolution away appeal fees for lisa valentine's
 grading permit GRD 2023-0031 to the Planning Commission. Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I'm bringing this forward tonight because I think it's really kind of odd that we require a fee to appeal a grading permit. And we waived the fee a couple of weeks ago for another aspect of appeal. And I thought this was a legitimate concern that she had. And I'm
 And so I'm bringing it forward for your consideration. I did put it on the agenda at the agenda session meeting because there is a deadline of the 21st, of December 21st. So in a couple of days, that fee has to be paid. And I think the permit has already been submitted, but the fee is due on the 21st. I'd be happy to answer any questions if anybody has any. Any questions or anything, any discussion on it?
 Just one quick question. The appeal will not come to us. It'll come to planning, right? Correct. This is just to waive the fee. That's all it is. Not to make a decision about whether the appeal is valid or not.
 Okay. Anything else? I'll take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? Who have you got on Zoom? Nobody, ma'am. All right. I'm going to bring it back
 To the council, this is a resolution. What discussion would you like to have? What action would you like to take? Mr. Mayor? Yeah. I'm going to cautiously support this only because of it being the only appeal with a fee
 to the planning commission it's not the only appeal though with the fee period on the city and i say cautiously support it because in general i would almost rather we pay the fees out of our own pockets than waive the fees because there is in fact a cost of these appeals to be processed that i don't want us to lose sight of organizationally and i don't want to incentivize the
 the filing of appeals because there is no skin in the game for individuals. I know we also have a fee resolution study that's underway and I suspect that we will be presented with uniform fees for multiple kinds of appeals which is only appropriate because of the cost that the city and the community bears. But tonight to close out the year
 I think that it would be appropriate for me to cautiously lend support to this one, knowing that this kind of thing is going away in the near future, I hope. Thank you. Okay. What other discussion? I would move that we support waiving the fee. We've got a motion to support. Do we have a second? Second. We've got a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Moore? Yes. Weedeker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 So we've gone to number three. A resolution authorized the acceptance of a non-matching public safety equipment grant from the Arkansas Department of Public Safety in the amount of $40,365.58 for the fourth judicial district drug task force to purchase a handheld narcotics analyzer and to approve a budget adjustment.
 I'm sure you pulled it off the consent, what,
 We'll start with you and then we'll turn it over to Chi. Sure. So at agenda session, this was presented. It's obviously a merging piece of technology. And so a lot of times, you know, there's an overall benefit, but always wanting to do, you know, additional diligence. And I think there were some questions that were asked. And I think Deputy Chief Fields did a great job of explaining, but there was a little bit of information that maybe she didn't have at the time. So I was hoping that we could share.
 hear more about the reasons for why the current effectiveness of the tool that we're using today. We hear the safety benefit, but the effectiveness between the new tool versus the old and the additional benefits. And obviously the cost is being weighed now, but if we're able to cover two, is there any ongoing cost?
 any ongoing training that will have to be sought or, you know, a lot of times these types of tools I think have to be calibrated and there can be software and additional costs. So, just trying to understand fully what we would be
 Okay. Certainly, I appreciate that and I apologize for my absence last week. It was an honor to be down in Benton. We had an officer, a detective, Philip Lee, that was being recognized as the Attorney General's Officer of the Year, so I felt like I needed to be there for that and I do agree with you, Councilmember Moore. I think that certainly Deputy Chief Fields did an excellent job of trying to explain exactly what we're purchasing and I'll try to do a better job of the
 answering some of the questions that came up. So I'll just start from the top. And in 2021, the Arkansas General Assembly, they established Act 786, which was the Public Safety Equipment Grant Program. So this is a non-matching grant that's intended to utilize or be utilized for
 Police equipment also for training and accreditation purposes that support best police practices. So this year the Arkansas Attorney General and Arkansas General Assembly. I'm sorry they allocated. I think $3 million for this annual grant, and so the DTF applied for this annual grant.
 in August and they applied for it to be used for what's called a TrueNarc handheld narcotics analyzer as the mayor mentioned. The total cost including taxes, two year warranty and training that's included with that device is $40,365.
 and the 58 cents that we're requesting the approval for. That grant was approved on November 28th, and that's when we received the notification from the Arkansas Department of Public Safety. So in a nutshell, the TrueNarc handheld narcotics analyzer
 is a handheld device that uses Raman spectrophysy, I think is how you say it. And I'm probably butchering that. I need Council Member Whitaker to probably interpret for me. But certainly that's an instrument that identifies approximately 500 different types of narcotics, precursors,
 Synthetic drugs, cutting agents. I think Council member more looking back at the agenda session. I believe you specifically ask about baking powder or baking soda and it does identify baking powder baking soda. We don't have a current field test at the police department that identifies that.
 So it also identifies other types of what we call cutting agents and also agents that certainly have a legitimate use out there, so dimethylsulfone, vitamin B12, it identifies those as well. And so it will identify non-narcotics as well. So it has an extensive library and certainly the technology is only, as Deputy Chief Field mentioned last week, it's a preliminary screening tool.
 And so it does require confirmatory type of testing in a laboratory. And for us, that's through a chemist at the Arkansas Crime Lab Ratory, either here in Northwest Arkansas or down in Little Rock. So the technology is certainly an improvement in what we're currently using. It requires
 no direct contact with most of the substances that our officers encounter, which certainly reduces the risk of exposure and overdose to our officers. I brought the Olarkake method, I would call, that we currently use at the police department. And you'll see it's a little pouch. And we have, I think, approximately half a dozen of these. You can test for marijuana, you can test for methamphetamine, LSD,
 cocaine, so that's just to name a few. But you can see we have about half a dozen that we can test for in a field test. And in this device, it'll test for approximately 500. So that's the benefit there of having an extensive library that we can look at. You can put it up next to a pill and it'll identify whether it's a hydrocodone, whether it's oxycodone, trazodone, lorazepam, you name the drug and it'll be able to identify that. We currently don't have that available to us.
 And with this test kit, you take this pouch and you take the drug that you seize and then you take it out. Typically, it's in a plastic bag and the officer has to get into the plastic bag and pull the powdery substance out with a device. It has to scoop it into this device here and then close it back up. And then the reagent is broken in the vials of this packet.
 There's a risk with not only taking that powder out of the original packaging and putting it in here to exposure to the officer. These little glass vials, they have glass shards and sometimes if you don't push them right or if you push them too hard, the glass shards will go through the plastic and penetrate your fingers. And so then you wait for the reagent to react and then you determine if it reacts that it did have either a positive or negative field test or whatever that reaction was.
 you know, six drugs is that I mentioned that we currently test for. The other drugs that we don't test for, we make an assumption based upon training and experience what those are, and we submit them to the crime lab, and then we have a chemist verify what they are, along with the other drugs that we do a field test. We would still do that, as I mentioned earlier, with the lab and the chemist to verify exactly what the true NARC handheld device analyzer would tell us.
 I think to maybe better even describe what we're looking at purchasing, I've got a couple of videos to show. They're real short videos. I think one's about a minute and 45 seconds. The other one's probably right around a minute. The first video is just an overview of the TrueNARC handheld analyzer and the second video that you'll see
 is a video out of Bartlesville, Oklahoma, Bartlesville Police Department of an officer that is doing exactly what I said, field testing, and he has an exposure to fentanyl, and you'll see what happens in that video. So Logan, if you wouldn't mind to cue up those police.
 The thermoscientific TrueDart Handheld Narcotics Analyzer offers field-based presumptive testing of suspected narcotics, precursors, and cutting agents. With the emergence of more lethal drugs like fentanyl and carfentanil, keeping law enforcement teams and the public safe is more important than ever. The methods officers use to conduct operations and perform presumptive testing requires increased scrutiny and enhanced procedures to ensure their safety.
 The TrueNarc Handheld Narcotics Analyzer can test for multiple controlled substances in a single event and deliver clear, real-time results for presumptive evidence, without the need to contact most suspected narcotics. It is lightweight and easy to use, easily identifying narcotics, stimulants, depressants, hallucinogens, and analgesics using lab-proven technology.
 The TrueNarc handheld narcotics analyzer offers automated, hamper-proof records with scan results including time and date stamps to help expedite prosecution. Rapid identification of substances helps decrease lengthy wait times many evidence laboratories face today, allowing officers
 to quickly adjudicate cases before trial so offenders can get faster access to the treatment they need. Agencies across the United States are seeing immediate benefits after deploying the TrueNarc handheld narcotics analyzer. Valuable lab time is freed up for higher priority cases. Demand is reduced for laboratory testing, delivering significant cost savings.
 Cases are moving to trial and being resolved quicker, reducing the number of cases dismissed due to lack of lab reports. There are hundreds of substances in the library, and regular updates ensure you are always scanning for the latest illegal drugs. To learn more about the TrueNar Cantilever Narcotics Analyzer or schedule a demo, please visit us online at thermofisher.com slash TrueNar.
 The power of even the smallest touch of fentanyl shown in this video. Watch as a Bartlesville police officer wearing protective gloves is packing up drug evidence believed to be laced with fentanyl when he slowly starts to collapse. Becoming ill, lightheaded.
 and actually basically passed out or fell. Seconds later, a rush of officers coming to the rescue. I don't know what would have happened had they not acted so quickly. Sergeant Jim Warren says officers quickly gave him Narcan, which is believed to have saved his life. Police say this is the first time they've had to deal with something like this, where they had to give one of their own officers Narcan. We're really fortunate that, one, we had this available to us, and two, that our officers
 really adhered to the training and paid attention to the training. Another layer to the opioid epidemic and an eye-opening to what these men and women behind the badge have to deal with. Even though the officer may not be physically dealing with an individual, all the evidence and things that we handle on a day-to-day basis, you know, that can harm you too.
 Thank you. The Arkansas Department of Public Safety is requiring that Mayor Jordan sign this grant. I believe it's by December 29th. And, Council, I would certainly recommend
 Certainly appreciate your support of this resolution and if you have any more questions I'll be happy to try to answer those. I've also asked that a representative from Thermo Scientific join us as a panelist so if we want to have a deeper dive into some of these questions that are maybe a little bit above my pay grade I'll be happy to have Mr. Fitzpatrick answer those. Scott Fitzpatrick is joining us.
 Thank you for what you provided so far. One of the questions I initially had in the agenda session and had tonight that I don't think I heard covered was the effectiveness. I did some looking and tried to just kind of see what studies have been out there on this particular piece of equipment about the effectiveness. And again, I don't know what the most recent studies are, but from 21, it said especially if
 you know, there was a container that was glass or something wasn't, had a packaging that it couldn't see through as well, like sometimes that it could have some issues. And so the, you know, the manufacturers always do a great job, right, of their promotional videos and did show a lot of varying types of packaging that it looks through. And so knowing, you know, you're going to encounter lots of different things
 things. I just was going back to that effective, right, trying to understand. And then the other thing I'd seen in a study by a university was about opiates and potentially tablets and certain substances that it wasn't able to read as well. Right. Certainly when you start talking about the Raman spectroscopy type of technology, I think it's been around for a number of years.
 And certainly I looked at the internet, did try to do my own research, looked at a lot of periodicals out there, a lot of literature associated with that. I saw everything from 100 percent effectiveness to the 78 percent effectiveness. But once again, I think that that's something that certainly our panelists who's joined us tonight might be better suited to answer those for the council.
 So if we could, if we could have Mr. Fitzpatrick answer that question, please. I'd be happy to. Can you all hear me? Yes, sir. Okay. In terms of effectiveness, we tend to look at these instruments as how often are they wrong, right? Because if you look at the list of the chemicals that are in the database,
 It's kind of like thinking of it as a chemical fingerprint. And so if you rent out to my truck and you pull my thumbprint off the door handle and you ran me through the system and I've never been busted, I've never been in the military, I'm not a realtor in Texas or some profession that prints me, you're not going to find me in the database. And so it's the same thing here. We have a set database and I believe right now we're at around 535 items. And as we grow this list, we give it away for free.
 And so it's looking for those items, it's looking for controlled items first. If you can't find that, it looks for cutting agents and precursor chemicals. But our false positive rate is less than one-tenth of one percent. We just don't miss very often. It is a machine. It will miss on a rare occasion. But it's how we judge how effective the instrumentation is, by how often is it wrong.
 And we've been vetted by several state labs across the way. Arkansas has not. State lab has not, but Arkansas State Police and many drug task force agencies across the state have been using these devices for upwards of eight, nine years now.
 We've got a proven track record. We've never been successfully challenged in court. It's just a presumptive device. So there really is just always going to have to go back to the lab. And in the world of lab technologies, we have categories A, B and C. A being the best and Raman spectroscopy is a category A lab technique.
 I know that we don't talk too much about Texas and Arkansas, but the Texas Department of Public Safety actually bought one of these devices and a couple of others about six years ago now. And they passed them around to six of the 13 regional labs for a total of 13 years.
 excuse me, a total of three years. And they came back and they allowed the criminal investigations of the troopers to buy them. They placed one order of 40 something to start with, and they bought another 40 afterwards. They are now up to 88 of these devices, but only after their lab tested them out. A similar thing has happened in Florida with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, their state lab.
 ran through them and vetted them and now their agencies are purchasing them as well. So it's been around a while, it's got a proven track record. And as far as your question about containers, and I'm kind of off the beaten track here, but if you can get a little bit of light to go through the container, I can probably get through with the laser. Because this is just all about laser light going through the package itself.
 And so it's just one of those questions about being able to get, to get the light to the unknown. And then in the case of pills, we're seeing a lot of, um,
 A lot of fentanyl laced pills coming through that look like legitimate pharmaceuticals, and they're very good copies coming up from Mexico. And as of today, we have 50 different fentanyl analogs in this database, plus some of these new, what I call fentanyl 2.0, they're called nitazines. We've got a handful of those now, as well as xylosine, you're hearing about that these days.
 But some of the pills that we're getting have literally no fentanyl in them whatsoever. Some of them have just that right amount under two milligrams to keep people from dying. Then some of them are loaded so hot that we call them kill pills. And it's just a mixed bag. If you ever saw the operations in Mexico where they're actually making these pills,
 You know, you got 55 gallon barrels and a boat or, and they're literally, you know, mixing things up and pressing them into tabs and sending them over the water. So some things we can see really well, some things we have a little bit more difficulty being and of course, if there's just not any substance in that pill, it's going to be difficult to read it. Anything else there? All right. Anybody else got any questions?
 yeah i gotta get public comment anything else all right thank you all right we'll take public comment now everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber
 who do you have on zoom nobody mayor okay i'm gonna bring it back to the council it is resolution yes theresa
 I'd just like to say I really support this new technology. This is a major expansion of what you're able to actually figure out what's in these new pills and it reduces the potential exposure by our police officers. Thank you for bringing this forward. I think this will be much more efficient and it sounds like it's been around for eight or nine years.
 Less than one-tenth of 1% false positive rate is amazing. Amazingly low rate. So thank you, Chief. Yes, sir. Yes, I'd also like to thank you for this detailed presentation that you made with the videos and everything and having the representative from the company here to answer our questions. You know, it just seems like
 to me that this is something that we really want to have in our community to keep our police officers safe, but also to keep, you know, for the safety of the people that are, you know, that are being stopped or whatever, just to make sure that as best we can to use the technology to the best of our ability
 to maybe shorten the time that people are held or maybe before we know what something actually is and make it safer for officers, I'm really in favor of this. Mayor, I'd echo Teresa and Sarah's comments, and I'd make a motion that we pass the resolution as presented. Excuse me real quick. Councilmember Jones has his hand raised. Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead, DeAndre. Okay.
 I just wanted to, again, say thank you to Chief Reynolds and the presenter. And I'm definitely looking forward to supporting this, especially with the increase in
 and the opiate crisis, I understand that from, I believe from January 1st up until November 30th, there have been over 222 calls as it relates to overdose. So I'm sure at some point our officers have and will continue to come in contact. So I'm going to definitely support this.
 uh this is great and again uh uh chief rails as always thank you so much okay we have a motion did we get a second i'll second that all right any final comments from the council yes sarah i did just want to say thank you um for bringing in detailed information to answer the questions that i had from last um agenda session so thank you okay if there's not any other final comments care would you please call them more
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay let's go number four a resolution to approve the 25-year souls solar surfaces agreement with integrity energy partners LLC
 that it is anticipated to offset 6,538,454 kwh of the city's annual electricity consumption from southwestern electric power company and produce an estimated seven million dollars in savings over the life of the contract uh chris
 Thank you, Mayor. As I mentioned last week, I've been asked to step in as the project director for this project. My depth of knowledge of the solar industry is exponentially better than it was a few weeks ago, but still pretty limited. So, I do have Flint Richter here with Integrity who can answer any questions on behalf of the proposed solar provider and Chris McNamara,
 hear from sustainability. He can answer any in-depth questions. He manages all of our solar projects that we have underway. So I wanted to start with just kind of some context to go through how we got to where we are today. So if I can make this work. All right. So first of all, the
 Starting with the Energy Action Plan, kind of set a lot of these projects in motion. That was in 2018. You see the goals of the Energy Action Plan that were established at the time. The first project that we proceeded with was the wastewater treatment solar projects in
 Two 5 megawatt solar arrays estimated about $6 million in savings over 20 years. Actual savings has been to date about double what we estimated, mainly because of the spike in energy in 2021 from the severe weather, but I think it's an indication of how
 uh these projects uh insulate us a little bit from spikes in energy costs so i think it's an important point that particular project got us to 72 percent clean electricity next is the energy savings performance contract it's a whole slate of facility improvements across all of our facilities
 It also includes some rooftop solar arrays, which are in progress and we expect to complete in early 2024. That has an estimated $3.3 million in savings over the life of the 20-year contract and achieves about a 27 percent energy reduction. About 18 percent is in electricity. That gets us to 80 percent.
 clean electricity. It's also important to note that this project, we had intended to proceed with this contractor for a ground-mounted solar project, but we were not able to negotiate an appropriate price point with the contract. That was Johnson Controls, so we did not proceed with that, and that really brings us to where
 where we are today with this project. So the regulatory hurdle that we have and the deadline that we talked about a little bit, you can see the impacts of that changes the reimbursement rate from a retail rate. So right now, if we generate more power than what we use, then we do get a credit at a retail rate.
 It also caps the size of our arrays in that particular utility territory. Right now we have a 10 million megawatts in the Ozarks territory with our two projects we've completed, so just as an example. And that grandfathering deadline is September 30, 2024. So I wanted to talk a little bit about the procurement process for this.
 contract. We issued an RFQ in July of 2023. We received three proposals. We selected two of those providers for interviews.
 and something that we don't often do, but because of the information that we received and the really kind of very close proposals that we received, we wanted to make sure we had adequate time and spent adequate effort in comparing the two. They were very close in their proposals.
 So ultimately, the selection committee did select Integrity interview partners, and you can see the reasons there. They're much more experienced with SWEPCO. We have many, many meters that will be involved in this, so it's a fairly complicated process.
 process to work with SWEPCO to look at all of the meters and all of the credits that will be involved. Integrity also had a solar array site identified, and we're able to confirm that it has adequate interconnection infrastructure. In other words, SWEPCO's facilities are there that we can easily connect into their grid.
 And then lastly, and I think something that is really important in this instance, is that they are a local firm. This is not just a contract that we have over the next couple of years. This is a 25-year partnership. So the fact that they are local and are invested in this project and will be over the long term, we felt like as a committee that that was very important.
 the city attorney has provided you a memo and expressed some concerns about the the relationship that exists with integrity and peter nearing garden so i think what to me is important to know when you look at all of that information in the policy it states that immediate family members and city employees should not have a substantial financial interest
 in an organization doing business with the city except when it is in the best interest of the city and i feel like the this process and all of our selection processes are designed to select the best contractor that is in the best interest of the city so inherently i believe that policy is met through this process so to talk about the project this is the these are the statistics 3.77 megawatt
 Solar array generates six and a half million kilowatt hours per year with a seven million dollar estimated savings over the 25-year contract, about 160,000 in the first year, and that number will increase as time goes on. It will get us to 90 percent clean electricity and again as a 25-year contract. The initial cost
 is 5.7 cents per kilowatt hour, and that includes a 1% escalation rate. That was really kind of the best rate overall that they gave us the most savings throughout the period of the contract.
 Other estimate I think that's important is 2.5% price escalation rate for SWEPCO. So basically those costs will diverge over time, which results in the additional savings to us. Talk about the timeline. Okay.
 This is the proposed timeline by integrity. The key point there is July 2024. That's the payment of the interconnection cost. That's when all of the work will be done to the point that we will be ready to kind of get past that grandfathering point. So you can see we have a fair amount of cushion under this potential schedule.
 You may ask why SWEPCO would, why they wouldn't just drag their feet and cause us to miss this deadline. They do have published schedules for how long they take to review and there's kind of a two-step process. So if they don't meet those published schedules, we do have relief from the Public Service Commission to ask for an extension of that deadline.
 So lastly, recommendation. There is, I believe, an amended resolution that explicitly recognizes the indirect financial interest of the sustainability director and determines that the contract is in the best interest
 of the city of Fayetteville. So the recommendation is to approve this resolution, approve the contract. And again, just want to reiterate that the selection committee process, I feel very confident that it worked and it selected the best contractor for the city. So I feel very confident in recommending
 integrity for this project and again I am the project director and will continue to be throughout the project that's it any questions what questions do I Scott Chris who was on the selection committee just found out one
 The selection committee included Wade Abernathy, myself, Steve Dodson, Jared Rayburn, who's the airport director, Councilmember Turk, Chris McNamara, Les McGaw, who I believe is a non-voting member but is representing purchasing, and Allison Jumper.
 Okay, thank you. And that information was included in that in the memo from Kidd as well. It's in the packet in there somewhere. Well, we've got quite a few things in the packet. Yes, I understood. I just want to make sure that. Scott. I want to say before I ask my questions, I absolutely support the idea of what we're doing here. I see the importance of it.
 My concern in this situation is sometimes as government, we get that collar hung around our neck that we're good old boys and we take care of each other. And I think that's why it requires transparency. And I want to lay out so that it's on the record exactly what happened so that you're asking me to sign a resolution that says that
 We, as city council, acknowledge the conflict of interest basically, but we are saying the good of the contract outweighs the concern about the conflict of interest. And how can I do that as a city council member if I haven't seen the other proposal? Understanding I typically would not see that because it would come as a committee's recommendation.
 However, this one is different because it's got those layers of conflict of interest. So it concerns me that you're asking me to sign that or sign off on that resolution when I haven't seen that other contract to say the conflict outweighs the, I mean, the good of the contract outweighs the conflict. So I'm not trying to be difficult, but I am trying to make sure that we're transparent with our citizens.
 I believe the company is an excellent company. I believe it's parent company is an excellent company. But I have no allegiance to them. I have allegiance to the citizens. So I think it's important that we put everything on the table so everybody knows exactly what happened. So that's my concern in that in where we are right now. So I guess my question would be, is the second
 meeting that you had, was additional questions the only reason you met? Well, that, from my standpoint, it was. When we met as a committee, there were questions raised and the simplest way I can put it is each proposer had kind of a list of costs and other things, some of which were known, some of which were not.
 So it's really kind of difficult for the committee to fully compare apples to apples. So what we talked about in that meeting was trying to ask more specific questions so that we could compare side by side and really fully understand exactly what the
 the proposers were talking about. Now, that was my perspective at the committee meeting. My understanding after that, and after reviewing all the materials that the city attorney provided, that there was some concern that was not addressed at the committee meeting, the initial selection committee, but there was some concern expressed by purchasing manager and kind of went forward from there.
 So, from my perspective, it was to get that additional information. Possibly from others' perspectives, it was to change the people who were in the room that made the presentation. Okay. So, the conflict of interest started there at the first meeting.
 Yeah, so maybe I go back in the proposal itself. There was that potential conflict was identified. That relationship was identified, which is pretty typical for our proposals. There's a form that you're asked to fill out as a as a proposer.
 That relationship was identified. It also said that Meredith Hendricks, who's the vice president for sustainability for integrity, was not going to be a part of the project.
 So I think the concern began when Meredith showed up at the interview, really to talk about their sustainability efforts and things like that. And I'm happy to let Integrity speak to that as what their motivation was, what they were intending to do, because it's really was kind of their decision to do that. So if you'd like Integrity to answer that, I'm happy to let them.
 Yeah, I think I would because I think that's where the challenge starts. Hello, I'm Flint Richter with Integrity Partners. Thank you for your time and your question, Mr. Berna. Do you want me to go ahead and just address that as stated? Please, I'd like to know because it was my understanding that the company had expressed knowledge that there was a conflict and that she would not be a part of the process.
 And then at the interview, she was present and made a brief presentation. So that's, you know, to me, the first level of concern is why did you make that decision for her to come after saying that she wasn't going to be a part? Right. Great question. Thank you for your time. So, you know, Meredith is a wonderful person and one of our top team members. So we wanted to bring our A-team to this interview.
 and so we included Meredith in the interview. We did not have the project secured, and it is true that Meredith, none of the funds from a solar project go through her division, so you know, she was not involved in the project once awarded, but it was, you know, an honest mistake that we did include her in the interview because she is so good at interviews, has been a long-term Fayetteville resident, cares deeply about the city and sustainability. So, you know,
 when we were called for the second interview to clarify a lot of the fees and interconnection fees and transformer fees that we had included and excluded from our project we were asked that you know meredith not be part of that that interview so we brought another team member from little rock mr parker higgs so i think our distinction was
 you know, interview was different than the project because the project truly, Meredith, does have no role in solar projects. And none of that, those funds go through her division. Well, let me just say I,
 I applaud her background and obviously she's a very, very smart and intelligent lady and or she wouldn't be in the position she's in. And quite frankly, I think y'all put her in a bad spot by including her in that interview. And honestly, you put us in a bad spot. So,
 I think that's all the question I have for you. I just wanted to understand exactly what went into your thought process about including her after saying that you weren't going to include her. Sure. Thank you. What else? Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would simply ask how many total employees do you have and how many divisions in your company? Oh, we are currently right at around 120, 125 employees.
 And we have an energy services division, which does HVSA, LED lights, et cetera. And we have a solar vision and a sustainability division. Thank you. That's all. Anything else? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone public or any council member.
 stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this is in the chamber who do you have on nobody's on zoom mayor okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what discussion would you like to have on mayor i have a question for uh chris brown
 Thanks, Chris. So I think one of the concerns that was expressed by the city attorneys was the sort of the chain of command and leadership and project management and you stated that you would be the project manager. Will Peter and Aaron Garden be involved in any any aspect of this project? He would not be under this hierarchy that we proposed.
 So really you would be leading the helm and working really closely with Chris McNamara and others? That's correct. Okay. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure the city council understood that. I was on that review committee. I think we had some really, really excellent discussions. We had some great applicants, absolutely.
 We did need to have an apples to apples second meeting. There were different strategies between the two applicants. And so I think that that second meeting was very helpful. And I agree with the way Chris described the meetings and how they proceeded.
 So I would like to make a motion to amend the resolution to include what the city attorney recommended on this, the addition to this resolution. And, you know, Mayor, I have handed out a copy of the proposed resolution. Also, it was attached to my memo that I sent to you all last week. And basically what it is, is to make sure that all of the facts that the city council should know about are out there.
 also to put the City Council because it's your decision on what's in the best interest of Fayetteville and if there does appear to be an indirect financial interest by one of our employees that is allowed if the City Council determines it's in the best interest of the city of Fayetteville to go ahead and enter into this contract and so that's what the resolution says that you are doing and
 You are the policy makers, you make the decision on this, but I do think the resolution needs to be amended so it's clear historically that you all looked at this issue and you made your final determination. So that's why I drafted this proposed amendment to the resolution. Okay, so we have a motion to amend to what Kit recommends in the resolution. Second. Okay. Any discussion on that?
 I'm not going to belabor the point, but I'm going to have to vote no on the resolution just because I struggle with, not that I'm opposed to the project, don't get me wrong,
 I don't want to say that I know that this is in the best interest of the citizens with the conflict that's there without being able to adequately review both contracts. Not that it's a bad proposal. They're a great company. Their parent company is a great company.
 uh uh but i will be voting no for the resolutions because of of uncertainty about this situation well first thing we're going to vote on this amendment trace yeah and i would recommend regardless of how you might vote on the final resolution that it be amended to this because it makes it far more legal if the resolution is passed
 Okay, so we're voting on the amendment. Everybody got it? All right. Carriage, please call the roll. I want to make sure that I have the amendment clear. Reading through the documentation that the city attorney sent, is it the amendment?
 that the process to be overseen by the environmental director is not overseen by Peter Nearingarten. Is that the amendment? No, actually, the amendment is to amend the current resolution, and I'll give you a copy of this, adding a new whereas clause, which says faithful environmental director Peter Nearingarten has fully disclosed to the city council his indirect financial interest in
 because his wife is vice president for sustainability of Integrity Energy Partners.
 and Director of Nearing Garden's immediate supervisor, Chief of Staff Susan Norton, approves of this contract and will ensure that it will not adversely affect his regular employment duties. And then in Section 1, there's a slight amendment. It says that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, being aware of the indirect financial interests of Director Nearing Garden in this contract, hereby determines that it is in the best interest of Fayetteville to enter into this contract and authorizes the Mayor to sign it.
 So that's, that would, that is, I'll give you a copy of this resolution. You can have, that is what I understand the motion to mean. But, Kerry, you are right. Peter Nearing Gardens is not supposed to be working on this project. Correct, Chris. Okay. Anything else? All right. Kerry, would you please call the roll? Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? No. This is for the amendment only. Burnham? No. Okay.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Jones? Yes. The amendment passes. Okay. Now we have the amended resolution. Chair? I just have a couple of follow-up questions. I don't know if these are Chris or someone else, but I appreciate the conversation about wanting to have additional clarity because we are doing the public's business.
 And I've never gone through, I haven't been selected as a council member during one of these RFQ processes to experience it myself. So bear with me if I ask a silly question. But in my experience from looking at RFQs of other governmental agencies, typically there's a matrix that's put together and they're scoring.
 So, did, you know, did we go through a certain procedure where based on what was provided and the interviews that were, there was a set scoring matrix that every participant from the committee participated in? Yes, there was a scoring matrix and it was published in the RFP what the selection criteria would be and what those points would be for each. Okay, thank you.
 everyone had completed those matrix was it totaled up in summation so that you could see what the applicant scored across all of those I I don't have that total the only thing we received from purchasing was the basically the the summary of that what the votes were first and second place vote so the the detail of the
 scoring the point system I don't have available.
 But as far as based on the initial application and the subsequent interviews, there was some type of scoring or voting mechanism that led the committee to determine that this was the partner to proceed with. Is that correct? Yes. Yes. Included in the memo from Kit are the voting results. But it simply has first place and second place votes. Okay.
 The scoring system, the detail of that was not provided. Okay. And then at any point during that process, because it sounded like there were two rounds of interviews, there was like an initial and a follow-up. In the initial, the applicant we're looking to award had the conflict present. The second they didn't, did the committee at any time have conversations about the conflict?
 I don't recall having the conversation in the selection committee at all. So do we know whether or not potentially that conflict weighed into any of the scoring or any of this decision making during the committee and Councilmember Turk is present too so I'm sorry to put you on the spot in the event just to just at least again trying to be fully transparent. Yeah I from my perspective
 No. I think if anything, the conflict might have led some of the committee members to vote negatively toward integrity. But that's a gut feel and that's really my opinion. So I can't speak for the other committee members. We never talked about a conflict in either of the meetings. Okay. Thank you. Yes, we did. Sure, you have Mike.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You know, full heartedly, I didn't support the amendment of the resolution. It's a fine resolution. There's nothing wrong with it. I'm a little hypersensitive, having been a municipal employee for 32 years, when your name gets used in documents through no fault of your own. And I think in essence,
 what we had in my amateur opinion was a resolution that says no city employee did anything wrong, so we're going to publish their names in a document to say they didn't do anything wrong. And so to me, that's just a personal professional level of discretion where it legally probably makes sense, but for me,
 Rarely do we publish someone's name in a resolution to say that they've done nothing wrong. It makes me wonder, well, gee, if we don't publish their name, are they doing something wrong the rest of the time? Because we didn't call out their name. So that was the only reason to oppose the resolution. And I felt compelled, obviously, to explain that. I'm going to try to explain my respect and appreciation of Councilmember Berna's concerns
 which I think are perfectly legitimate and appropriate for any of us to have. And I'm gonna talk out of the other side of my mouth, Council Member Burner, as I was trained to do, and that is, as a society, we've come a long way, but not nearly far enough to say that a woman rising to the level of vice president in a company isn't then jeopardy
 in jeopardy of her company losing a contract simply because she's not a janitor, a custodian, or some lower level administrative position, but a vice president. And therefore, there's financial consequences for her employer for having promoted her based on her talent, competence, and ability to produce. And I feel like that we're in that fine gray area where we're saying,
 gee guys this is arkansas three million people you know i went to a party just the other day and found out i went to elementary school with someone's wife that had no idea we went to the same elementary school this is arkansas we're one marriage away from someone saying well gee nab holtz you know we now have a marriage of a city employee under mr brown's department to someone that does
 a lion's share of capital CIP projects in Northwest Arkansas, and are we precluded, therefore, from engaging in business with them? And of course, everyone would say the answer is absolutely not. The employee at the city needs to disclose that, and that's been done in this instance. And so I just want to be mindful that we are not punishing either a city employee or a
 their spouse who's risen through the ranks when the city employees done nothing wrong. And I want to fully acknowledge that no city employee has done anything wrong and they've disclosed what they needed to disclose. But I don't think financially we can afford as a long term government body to preclude people
 when the costs of labor and materials have so escalated in our market, we need every conceivable bidder and respondent to every conceivable project we can beat the bushes and come up with, with a maximum level of competition, because that's what saves...
 the taxpayers of Fayetteville money in the long run. And so keeping this group eligible to compete is important. And I would go to bat for any other engineering firm in Northwest Arkansas that's bidding on work. We want them, we desire their proposals. They will be treated fairly by this organization. And that speaks to Council Member Berna's earnest and appropriate cautions and concerns in this instance.
 And so having had the opportunity to say my piece and to say that no one should be punished for their competence and having risen in an organization and no municipal employee should be in jeopardy because they disclosed everything they were supposed to do. I will, in fact, be supporting this resolution to authorize the mayor to enter into this contract. The cost to Fayetteville residents to not.
 get this solar array is far greater than any risk that I feel for us at this point. And that's the value, $7 million over 25 years
 It's not the $25 million in the federal grant we were just awarded, but $7 million is real money. So I appreciate everyone's patience with me. I appreciate the city attorney helping us to dot I's and cross T's and doing what he does. I appreciate Peter Neergarden. I appreciate integrity and the...
 the other respondent didn't get the contract and i appreciate council member berna asking very appropriate questions i feel better as a resident knowing that you're asking those questions so i thank you for that and with that i've i've said my okay scott i'll make this short but i want to make sure that i don't think i at any point questioned
 The fact that she has rose the ranks of the employment ladder and has been very successful. And because she's a female, I'm going to count that against her because she's married to a city employee. My concern was with the company. They made a misstep and they created this issue. We didn't.
 And I wanted to make sure that we dotted the I's and crossed the T's and made sure we made the public aware of the situation because I felt it was important that we were transparent. But if I conveyed anything that would indicate that I was holding something against her because she was the wife of an employee and that was not my intentions.
 because I applaud anyone that can be successful and I want everybody to be successful. So if I conveyed that, I don't think I did, but if I did convey that in any way, that was not my intentions. So I just simply have concerns about the way this is worded. I think overall it's a good project. I just think we have some issues with transparency that I don't think
 which weren't there. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to respond a little bit to Council Member Whittaker's comments. The reason the city attorney's office was concerned is state law, which says a council member, official, or municipal employee shall not be interested directly or indirectly in the profits of any contract for furnishing supplies, equipments, or services to the municipality unless you all have passed
 ordinance to allow that and then when you go down and look at the ordinance that the City Council has passed they talk about all these things about full disclosure and not making sure it's not going to be detrimental to the person's job we must follow that both the state law and the city law and we can't say I don't I think I like these people and therefore you know I don't think we ought to be worried about that
 You can eventually say that in the best interest of Fayetteville, you're still going to award this contract, but that requires full disclosure. That's what it says in here. You must fully disclose, which means when you're fully disclosing, you're disclosing names, or it's not fully disclosed.
 You're not saying this unknown employee that we're not going to talk about might have had some influence somewhere or some indirect financial interest.
 To fully disclose, we need to fully disclose. And that's why I put Peter Nearinggarten's name in the resolution so there can be no question in the future if somebody ever looks back at this action that it was not fully disclosed. And that's why I amended this resolution to fully disclose so there can be no issue in the future to challenge this action. One last question.
 all right i'm sorry i didn't see your i don't know you go right ahead well um scott i just wanted to say that i think your concerns have been very valid and so i'm glad you brought them up tonight
 I think this has been a big learning experience for everybody. I think people will be a lot more, I guess, on the ball or responsive. I mean, I feel like I should have spoken up and I did not when I was a little bit concerned about this conflict. But we had everybody in the room. But I should have said something. However, I want to say that...
 I think the project is very good. I think Integrity can do a great job with this project and very comfortable with them being awarded this project. We never really spoke about conflicts at either meeting. For what that's worth, that's my perspective. Just wanted to make that clear, but I do think that we'll be much more careful in the future.
 One last question is this may get me back in the yes side, but don't count. But in regards to Kitt's comments, have we disclosed every possible conflict of interest that's associated with this resolution so that we are complying with state law?
 Well, I think Kit could probably answer that. I know of any of no other conflicts other than the one that's that's discussed in the resolution. I think we have. I mean that's how I why I drafted the resolution as it was. You know your own rules say that the employee fully discloses his or her direct or indirect financial interest in any contract or surface agreement to the City Council and
 and such services are approved by city council resolution. The mayor then even has his own policy, and again, he talks about fully disclosing the potential indirect financial conflict or financial interest.
 So I think that we've covered all the bases for state law and your city ordinance your city code and also the mayor's Policy in this resolution and that's why I asked you to amend to this Because I think this one of my main jobs as they will see the attorneys try to protect What you all want to do to make sure that what you do is as legal as I can make it and that's why I drafted the amendment to the resolution and
 and also why I shared the senior assistant city attorney's memo about the issues that we were concerned about. Anything else? Okay. I don't think we have anything else, so I guess we're ready to vote. Chair, would you please call the roll? We haven't had a motion or a second yet. Oh, we haven't had a motion or a second? Motion to pass. Second. We have a motion and a second now.
 right here okay now any final comments council uh care please go over the road moore yes wedeker yes bernard no bench yes turk yes jones yes the resolution passes thank you all
 all right let's go to number five an ordinance to rezone that property describing rezoning petition rzn 2023-027 for approximately 0.80 acres located at 1272 north 59th avenue in ward 4 from ra residential agricultural to rf6 residential multi-family six units per acre kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, most attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RMF 6, Residential Multifamily, 6 units per acre. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. This particular property is in West Fayetteville and as Mayor noted, well within Ward 4. It's about two miles west of Interstate 49 along West Weddington Drive. Getting more specific, it's three lots north of Weddington on the east side of North 59th Street, which gets you dialed into the aerial that you can see here.
 The property is currently developed with a single family home that fronts 59th Avenue and an outbuilding towards the northeast portion of the property. In association with the construction of the Woodbridge subdivision, which you can see here to the north and east, 59th Avenue was required by fire code to be widened out to a minimum width to serve as the alternative emergency access to the subdivision, bringing it to a minimum 20 foot width.
 Relatedly, an element of Woodbridge's street design was a stub out Luna Street to the east property line of the subject property with the intent of accommodating future connectivity in the area. With this background in mind, the request for the City Council tonight is to rezone the property from RA Residential Agricultural to RMF6, residential multifamily, six units per acre.
 When considering the request from a compatibility standpoint, staff did on the balance of considerations find it to be a compatible request. Despite the title of the request or of the proposed zoning district, RMF6, the entitlements are in many ways similar to the RSF4 residential single family four units per zoning or four units breakers zoning district in the subdivision to the north and east.
 Both have fairly similar lot size and lot width requirements. Both have building height limitations of three stories, and both have a very similar density limitation as indicated in the title of four and six respectively. The primary difference between those is also indicated in its title. Whereas the RSF four zone district exclusively allows single family homes, the RMF has a
 Six Zoning District allows a much broader allowance of housing units, including single two, three, four and multifamily housing. All that said, the size of the property under an acre effectively limits it to a generally comparable density to what you see in the subdivision to the north and east.
 When looking at the request from a long-range planning document standpoint, staff's findings were a little bit more mixed. As you can imagine, it reflects the property's location straddling two different worlds in a sense. The subdivision immediately to the east and the largely rural character of the rest of 59th Avenue to the west and south.
 When looking at those long range planning documents, it designates this property as a residential neighborhood area, which indicates an intention for it to be developed with residential housing of a pretty broad diversity or an ideally broad diversity. The RMF 6 zoning district allows that at one of the smallest increments possible, again, allowing single two, three, four and multifamily housing.
 Similarly, conflicting, however, is the infill rating for the property, which only includes five elements that we find to indicate it's an appropriate location. It's the fire response from the location of the station location on RuPaul has access to water and sewer and parks and trails. With that in mind, staff's.
 This is generally the middle tier or outer edge of what staff would feel comfortable supporting on a property at this location and with these elements that contribute to the appropriateness of infill.
 Other issues that were considered is the property's current zoning. The RA zoning district on the site currently makes the site non-conforming. It was annexed into the city in 2006. As with most properties, when they're annexed and available, they get an RA residential agricultural zoning, which has very large land area and lot width requirements.
 With this property's approximately 150 foot lot width and under an acre size, it does not meet any conformance standard for the RA zoning district. Similarly, the single family house on the property is in very close proximity to 59th Avenue, which conflicts with the setbacks of the underlying RA zoning district. The applicant's proposal would address both of those issues and staff feels in an incremental enough manner to be appropriate at this location.
 Additional consideration, which I alluded to earlier, is this is a through lot. It has access to two public streets, 59th Avenue to the west and Luna Street to the east. The potential for future connectivity to the east and west in this location makes it even more ideal in staff size for potential diversity of housing or additional housing types.
 Other considerations, this will reduce the tree canopy requirement if and when the properties develop. Our RA zoning district does have the highest canopy requirement as might be expected of 25% and development under RMF 6 would allow it to be reduced to 20%.
 The final issue I wanted to cover is some of the public comment that staff and the Planning Commission have received on this item. Leading up to the Planning Commission meeting, we did receive an inquiry on the request, but no particular statements of support or opposition. However, at the meeting itself, there was some public comment heard by the Commission. There were a range of concerns.
 with the request. Those included issues of traffic and parking and concerns about the narrowness of 59th Avenue. There were also assertions that this request is incompatible with the rural properties that I noted before to the west and south of the property. There was also concern expressed about potential building heights under the development under this property and the potential for tree clearing.
 With all these issues in mind, at that meeting, the Planning Commission ultimately tabled the request. At that time, it was originally proposed and requested as RI-12, Residential Intermediate 12 Units Per Acre, which the biggest distinction between that and RMF-6, which is what's before the council tonight, is it does not allow multifamily, but it allows twice the density of development on the property.
 Ultimately, at the subsequent meeting on November 27th, the applicant came back and proposed an amended request to RMF 6. The planning commission, majority of the planning commission viewed this favorably and forwarded to city council by a vote of 7 to 1. Those in favor of it thought this was an appropriately moderated request for the location and having not heard any public comment at the subsequent meeting felt this may suggest a better way
 the neighbor acceptance of the proposal uh the dissenting vote uh discussed the low number of infill elements associated with this property and disagree that that the request is consistent with our long-range planning goals and accordingly voted no to the item that said i'm happy to take any questions the council has and mayor reed lynch is available here as the applicant for the item okay would the applicant like to speak for the council you have 10 minutes
 good evening thank you for being here i don't have any anything to add to the request but i'll certainly answer any questions that you might have okay what questions we have in the council
 I do have a question of the applicant. I was curious, you had originally requested the RI-12 and I was curious why you were agreeable to the revised. To be real honest, the first request was just a mistake. I didn't realize exactly what it was and I had someone else fill it out for me. And then by the time I got here, it was too late to change it. So that's why we kind of tabled it to reconsider another zoning. Thank you. I appreciate that. You bet.
 I have a question for Jonathan. Jonathan, what's under the RMF 6? Can you lay out what the maximum options are in terms of development? In broad terms, it allows single, two, three, four and multifamily housing, so the full spectrum of housing types.
 However, on this property, given its size, it's 0.8 acres, the reality is you could only develop it with four units per acre. So multifamily as we classify it in Fayetteville, which is five or more attached units would not be feasible on this lot.
 So that's effectively the density allowance for the property would be four units because of the division of RMF six divided by the 0.8 acres. Some of the bulk and area requirements of the property.
 The RMS six district does allow three stories, which is similar to the RSF four zoning district to the east and north. The RA agricultural zoning district elsewhere has a very unique height allowance, kind of like our industrial districts to acknowledge that there are some unconventional buildings sometimes associated with agricultural uses. So it's not an apples to apples comparison in that regard. Does that answer the question?
 It does. And so really, I mean, it sounds like the big difference is the tree canopy from 25% to 20%. If you're looking at RSF4 versus RMF6 for this particular piece of property, would that be a reasonable interpretation? I think it's a fair description and of course the ability to attach housing units. Sure. Okay. Thank you so much. Anything else?
 I have one more question for staff. You spoke to the potential of the connectivity coming from the previous larger development through to like 59th potentially. With the zoning that we are considering, do both of those still accommodate for that potential connection or we potentially, I guess would that be at a later stage that we would be looking at that?
 that has not been evaluated in detail. I don't think either rezoning has a particular impact on it. I think some of the conversations you hear
 us have at these meetings is about the rough proportionality of a proposal, a development proposal, and any improvements that a city may require. Generally, the more units or more of a development that's proposed, the more that could be expected of a developer in association with that. But there's also, there can be increments of that. It could be that a street with sidewalk on one side today, as opposed to both sides or something along those lines. Sure.
 Anything else? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Everybody has a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. I don't suppose anyone would care to speak in the chamber. Do you have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. All right.
 well i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to move we suspend the rules and move to the second reading second we have a motion to say we'll go to the second rate here which please call the role more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 2023-27 for approximately eight-tenths of an acre, located at 1272 North 59th Avenue in Ward 4, from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RMF 6, Residential Multifamily, six units per acre. Move that we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Warren? Yes. Wienerker? Yes. Arno? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 And an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-27 for approximately eight-tenths of an acre located at 1272 North 59th Avenue in Ward 4 from RA Residential Agricultural to RMF 6 Residential Multifamily, six units per acre. Any final comments from the council? Care which police call the roll? Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay.
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. That concludes our business one. Announcements? Announcements? Announcements?
 Our announcements all revolve around a Merry Christmas and holiday. So the Christmas holidays for City Hall will be Monday and Tuesday. City Hall will be closed. Recycling and trash services will be delayed one day. We put out a media release for all of our residents to know that because the
 Next agenda session would fall on the 26th. We have moved it to the 28th, Thursday. And so that will be a regular agenda setting session Thursday, December 28th. And after that in the new year, the only holiday we have is the Monday. So we'll be back on our regular schedule after that.
 I also wanted to acknowledge and thank the beautiful music we had from our harpist, Linda Barton-Paul. And I wanted to call her name because she did such a beautiful job for us for playing our Christmas carols. And that was organized by arts and culture director Joanna Bell. So I just wanted to acknowledge Linda Barton-Paul. Thank you. Linda Barton- Okay.
 As we leave, I want to wish a very Merry Christmas to the City Council, the staff, the citizens of this city. I want you all to have a very happy, healthy, and safe holiday season. So on behalf of my office, I want to thank you for all the work that you've done, and I look forward to next year. All right. Thank you all. Merry Christmas. We're adjourned.