I would like to call to order the city council meeting for December the 18th, 2018. Senator, would you please call the roll? Batch. LeChair. Present. Smith. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Here. Here.
 Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. I promise you it will be an exciting evening for everyone tonight. Thank you all for coming.
 The first order of business I have tonight under recognitions, a presentation of city council awards for departing council members that I will do at this time. First council member, I would like to bring and present in recognition of your commitment to the citizens of the city of Federal Arkansas 2015 through 2018 with sincere appreciation for your dedicated service as a council member on the Federal City Council.
 I'd like to bring up Councilmember John Latour. I would like to say just a few remarks about John tonight is that I always appreciated John and his proposals that he would present to me at times.
 I also want to appreciate and give thanks to John for his business-friendly approach and his approach to development in the city. I want to thank you for that. I want to thank you for serving on the pay committee with fire and police and did some really excellent work. And, John, I will tell you this. It's been a privilege to serve with you. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to start by thanking you and all the city council and everyone in the support of the city of Fayetteville.
 It's been a very meaningful part of my life to participate in this service to Fayetteville. And I appreciate the opinions of everyone. And I think that's the hallmark of our democratic republic, Matthew Petty, is that we can have a difference of opinion and still respect and be friendly. And that's a beautiful part of Fayetteville. So I really appreciate that. Thank you very much.
 In recognition of your commitment to the citizens of the city of Federal Arkansas 2011 through 2018, in sincere appreciation for your dedicated service as a council member on the Federal City Council, I'd like to bring up Council Member Justin Tennant.
 I'd like to say I always appreciated Justin because he was great on counseling me on the global business future of not only this city but the region to get us at the very cutting edge of software and technology and your support on becoming a very business friendly city.
 because your impact will always be remembered by me. And it's not that it's over. Now we can discuss all we want to in any environment. But anyway, I do appreciate your counsel, Justice. I really appreciate your service. It's been an honor and privilege serving with you. Thank you.
 Well, we have quite an agenda tonight, so I don't want to talk very long. But I want to echo what John Latour just said and thank the council, thank the mayor and city staff members. I'd like to thank my wife Katie, who's here tonight. Believe me, the spouses also serve when it comes to this. And my daughter will tell you that she's looking forward to Tuesday nights at this point because of eight of her 10 years, she hasn't seen me much on those days and some others. So I do appreciate it.
 The city staff works very, very hard. I didn't know a lot about city politics when I got here, but I can tell you that there's usually a reason for almost everything that happens, and the answer usually lies in the middle. And so people who compromise and people that will work with both sides, I think are the most successful, and I appreciate this council. I wish luck to the new council. You've got some challenges ahead as we had, but the city of Fayetteville is amazing and we'll overcome them. So thank you all very much. I appreciate it.
 Well, I will try and get through this one. In recognition of your commitment to the citizens of the city of Federal Arkansas 2007 through 2018, with sincere appreciation for your dedicated services, Council Member of the Federal City Council, Del, would you come up, please? Council Member De La Gray. Thank you.
 I would like to say that Adela is the last council member that the mayor actually served with when he was a council member, which has been a while back. Adela was always a progressive thinker, and you could always count on Adela to always find a solution to every problem. She was great on the finances. Adela helped us very much so when we needed to pass the civil rights ordinance the second time.
 She and the other council members, I know Matthew was there, Sarah Marsh, I believe Mark Kenyon co-sponsored with her. Did I leave anybody out of that group? And you all got it through. And I can't thank you enough for doing that. And I thank you on such measures as our energy action plan and such measures as buying the land at –
 Kessler Mountain and Millsap Mountain, all the years your dedicated service and putting up with me as a council member and as mayor, it's been absolutely wonderful to serve with you. And thank you. It's been an honor and privilege to talk to you.
 and to serve on the A&P Commission. I learned so much about the A&P and exactly what it does, as I have so much on the city, on the city council. I...
 I've enjoyed it so much. I've enjoyed making my list, Mayor, I'll show it to you, of all the things that we as a council have accomplished in the last 12 years. Not all the things, but many of the things.
 And I was just talking to Chief of Staff Don Maher about that. It's been so, it's just amazing. I looked up the University of Arkansas enrollment. It was about 18,000 in 07, and as you know, it was close to 29 last year. So that's just one of the big things that has happened in this wonderful city.
 that I've had such a wonderful privilege to be a part of the government. Thank you. Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is the Volunteer of the Year Award. Presentation at the Federal City Council meeting to announce the Arkansas Recreation and Park Association Awards to the City of Federal and their annual conference held in November and to acknowledge the Volunteer of the Year Award.
 Laura Underwood Connie, okay mayor and City Council in November We were proud winners of bringing back to the city of Fayetteville of six awards at the annual Arkansas Recreation and Park Association meeting we won the natural resource program of the year for our amazing trees in Fayetteville
 The Recreation Administration Program of the Year for our Summer Fun for Kids Camp at YRCC. The Soft Surface Trail of the Year, Kessler Mountain Regional Park. Facility of the Year, Under 20,000. It was the Lake Sequoia Bait Shop Renovation. Festival Event of the Year with our Ladies Duo.
 And then we also won the Volunteer of the Year, in which we're very proud to have them as a resident in our great city, which is Laura Underwood. And I'd like to read just a little bit about her. Laura Underwood joined the Friends of the Yvonne Richardson Community Center Board in 2016. She has made it her mission to improve the community
 communities access to the services and programs provided by the YRCC. Laura has dedicated countless hours serving on the board and focusing on fundraising and spatial improvement projects for the YRCC. Since joining the board, Laura has been instrumental in adding resources to the center that have directly improved the quality of programming offered. She helped acquire 10 computers in the computer lab
 She implemented an annual fund drive that promoted YRCC offerings to 400 stakeholders and raised $25,000 in the span of three months. In addition, Laura has introduced donors to the YRCC, one of which resulted in a $15,000 contribution that allowed for the hiring of extra summer camp staff at the Summer Fund for Kids program.
 She's acquired grant funding to update and maintain the YRCC's website, and each year has excelled at running YRCC's annual fundraising silent auction. Laura's made it a point to stay connected with the YRCC through regularly visiting the center and interacting with the participants in the programs. Thank you.
 One more thing. The City of Fayetteville and the Arkansas Parks and Recreation Association recognizes Laura Underwood for her invaluable volunteerism at the YRCC and how she has demonstrated passion for helping others paired with strong community connections can result in positive outcomes with significant impacts.
 Mayor Jordan and City Council, it is my honor to announce the 2018 Arkansas Parks and Recreation Association Volunteer of the Year, Laura Underwood. Of course, I have a microphone. I want to sing something. Mayor Jordan, Council, this is such an honor. I have to give kudos, though. Thank you.
 This work is so easy because of Tanisha, and she's here. And she's the executive director of that wonderful center. If you have not ever gone to the Yvonne Richardson Community Center,
 You've got to go. And go when the kids are there, which is when they get there after school or during the summer when it's just a live with kids. And then during the day, you could go and play pickleball. You could help with lunches. You could help in the garden. You could help with the cooking classes. You could help with the Girl Scouts.
 Things are happening. STEM education, tutoring, the list goes on and on. And it's just been such a joy to be able to walk into those doors and help. It's an amazing, amazing place. And I hope that you will continue to put your resources there. Many kids see hope from going there.
 I have to thank my husband for letting me say yes to volunteering all those hours and to Connie and John and her staff because it's such a gift to have them, right, running our programs for the parks. So thank you very much. Thank you for the resources that you put into the YRCC, and I really appreciate this. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you all. I just...
 Again, I want to thank the council members for their service, all the things that they've done and all the committees they've served on and all their times at the council meetings again. So I just thank you for all the work that you've done for this city. Let's give them a round of applause one more time. Okay. All right. The next thing we have on the agenda is the nominating committee report.
 Thank you, Mayor. The nominating committee convened on December 12th and December 13th. We sorted through 55 applications. We conducted 42 interviews, and we have the following candidates that we are recommending for appointment. For the Active Transportation Advisory Committee, we recommend Drew Wallace for one community citizen at large term ending 12-31-20.
 Laura Cantor, one community citizen at large term ending 12-31-20. And Josh Moody, one community citizen at large term ending 12-31-20. For the airport board, we have Kayla Bruscas, one business term ending 12-31-23. Charles Wallace for one pilot term ending 12-31-23. And we have a vacancy for one aeronautical unexpired term ending 12-31-20.
 For Animal Services Advisory Board, we have a vacancy for the one licensed veterinary or veterinary professional term. And then we have Whitney Serson for one unexpired citizen at large term ending 6-30-20.
 For Audit Committee, we recommend Chad Reed, one term ending 1230 21. The Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks, Catherine Hipp, one term ending 1231 21 for the Civil Rights Commission. We recommend Samantha Arroyos for one business community term ending 1231 21.
 Kyle Guerin for one owner or manager of real property in term ending 12 31 21 Sierra Delk one citizen at large term ending 12 31 21 for the energy improvement district number one We recommend Joseph Donahue for one term ending 12 31 20 and
 For the Environmental Action Committee, also Joseph Donahue for one local industry term ending 12-31-21. Colin Massey for one community citizen at large term ending 12-31-21. For the Fayetteville Arts Council, Cindy Morley for one working artist unexpired term ending 6-30-19. Robert Stafford for one working artist unexpired term ending 6-30-19. And Jake Herzog for one working artist unexpired term ending 6-30-21.
 For the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, we recommend Will Dockery for one term ending 12-31-21. Keith Tenkleve for one term ending 12-31-21. Nicole Klassen, one term ending 12-31-21. For the Urban Forestry Advisory Board,
 We recommend Alan Osner for one tree service community term ending 1231 20. Audra Rogers for one community citizen at large term ending 1231 20. Glenda Patterson for one community citizen at large term ending 1231 20. And Robert Stafford for one community citizen at large term ending 1231 20.
 for the public facilities board the mayor recommends the following candidates public facilities board hugh ernest one term ending 12 31 23 conrad siemich for one term ending 12 31 21 and lynn cunningham one unexpired term ending 12 31 22. i move that we approve the nominations kyle i'll second that we have a motion in a second to approve the nominations from for the nominating committee any discussion
 Senator, would you please call the roll? Nope. Sorry. Sorry. Batch? Yes. Yes. Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all now before we get in the consent agenda. I have a resolution. I would like to submit to the City Council Yes, we we hand this out so it's a resolution that's before you but you need to suspend the rules so we can place this on the agenda John Spare I move that we suspend the rules and place this item on our agenda We have a motion to second to place this on the agenda Sundry please call the roll
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay i will read the resolution time and kit will read the body of it a resolution to express the city council's commitment and intention to use whatever is necessary to complete the cultural arts corridor project is finally approved by the
 As finally approved by the Federal City Council up to $21,685,000 in funding from the Arts Corridor Improvement Bond issue and to fund whatever is necessary for the replacement parking within reasonable proximity to the Walton Arts Center up to $10 million.
 the arts corridor improvement bonds are approved by the federal voters and to make job training and workforce development top priorities for economic development project bonds Whereas the City Council wants to assure Fayetteville voters that if they approve question 8 of the sales tax bond ballot to fund a cultural arts quarter project and
 The City Council will use whatever funds are determined to be necessary to construct what the City Council approves as the best design and plan for the Cultural Arts corridor up to $21 million $685,000 in bond funds and whereas the City Council further assures the favorable voters that if they approve question 8 of the sales tax bond ballot and
 To fund the Cultural Arts Corridor project, the City Council will use whatever funds are determined to be necessary to furnish or make available new public parking spaces in reasonable proximity to the Walton Arts Center to replace all public parking spaces lost or removed from the Walton Arts Center, also known as the West Avenue parking lot, up to $10 million in bond funds.
 and whereas the City Council expresses its intention to make job training and workforce development its highest priorities for bond funding if the favorable voters approve Question 6 of the Sales Tax Bond Ballot for Economic Development Project bonds.
 Now therefore be resolved by the City Council city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Hereby expresses its commitment and intention to use arts corridor improvement bonds revenue if approved by the Fayetteville voters as follows a To fund the construction of the City Council approved cultural quarter project cultural arts quarter project up to 21 million 685 thousand dollars and B a
 To fund the construction or otherwise make available to the public new public parking in reasonable proximity to the Walton Arts Center to replace all public parking spaces lost removed from the Walton Arts Center parking lot in amount of up to ten million dollars and See to use any bond funds not needed to construct the cultural arts corridor for replacement parking or not needed for replacement parking for the cultural arts corridor construction and
 Section 2 of the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby expresses its commitment and attention to use the economic development project bonds revenue if approved by the Fayetteville voters with highest priorities given for job training and workforce development. Okay, let us begin. Who'd like to be first? What discussion do we have among the council? Justin. Well, I appreciate the time that we put into this. I think it's important that
 that we concentrate on making sure that the voters are comfortable with all the parts of this bond and that that leads to this part that I wanted to make sure that there was some better comfort level from some people that had approached me and it and I think it had been vocal about the the idea of of making sure the city committed to this replacement parking if if it ever happens that we develop the Walton Arts Center lot.
 I don't think anything is guaranteed, but I think people will feel more comfortable that we have made a commitment, both publicly, as the mayor has stated several times, but also if we're not here, the mayor's not here or whatever, we can still look at the people and say, if you vote on this, this is what we're going to do. And I think I would like to talk a little bit about.
 the definition of reasonable reasonable proximity um but i'll let everyone else chime in but i think that's important for us to talk about tonight as well okay i'll discuss a little bit of that later okay um i think peter has presentation when we get into the language of the question box question
 Okay, we will take some public comment. Everybody stay with the resolution, okay? There's going to be a better explanation of close proximity parking later on in Peter's presentation. We have a map we want you to see. Right now we're looking at putting this as the basically $21,685,000 would go to the arts corridor, $10 million would go to replacement parking.
 So in close proximity to the Walton Arts Center. So I want everybody to keep your comments based on that. Everybody gets five minutes. You get one turn at the microphone. Keep your comments to me. Don't engage anybody in the council, anybody in the public. Stay on topic. If you get off topic, I will get you back on topic in a nice sort of way. Now, you can get more time if a council member makes a motion. They get a second by majority vote of the council.
 You can get more time and they will determine how much time that needs to be. I would like everybody's name and address. So who would like to be first? Remember, we're talking. Stay on the topic now. Thank you, Mayor. My name is Lucas Renier, 3191 North Catherine. First of all, Mayor, I would thank all the council for their incredibly hard work and diligence.
 in considering crafting this issue. It's a credit to the city that we've had this much work put into it. I'm here tonight to express my unqualified and pure absolute support for the resolution that is before the council tonight. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Thank you.
 Hello, Mayor. Robert Stafford, 527 South Sherman Avenue, Ward 1. I do support this. I had just more of a question than a comment. I was wondering if the $21 million, if the $10 million was part of that $21 million or if it was separate. Separate. Cool. Thank you very much. There's $21,685 one place and $10 million the other. Okay? Thank you.
 But I would take any partner that would like to partner us. Checks are welcome. Anyone else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Kyle. I think that actually raised a good question. If you find a partner and we don't need the whole $10 million to meet our parking obligations, is that free to be shifted to the? I believe it would be. Okay.
 If you look at C, it says if you don't need all the funds used for one or the other, you can shift it. You also don't have to spend all your funds. These are the amount of funds that are available to be spent. If you need more than $10 million for parking and you have money left over from the corridor, you can use that. Or more money for the corridor and you have money left over from the parking, you can spend it on the corridor. Thanks. I promised I was listening when you were ready. Yes, and that's exactly – I just felt a little more comfortable having $10 million in there in case we have to go with another structure.
 But if somebody wants to partner up the structure, I'm open to that also. So anyway, Justin. And I'm right in saying that we'll put this resolution needs to be done until we put it on schedule.
 so we can have a conversation about it later so we can talk about proximity parking or whatever yeah so this this really needs to be approved and i would like to make a motion to do that so that we could get to the that conversation as well okay adela i would second that we have a motion and second to pass the resolution any final comments from council so i'm going to please call the roll yes yes yes yes march yes
 Yes. Yes. Okay. But before we get there, I have to read the consent agenda, which you've seen the. It looks about as long as that bond. Yeah, it's almost as long as the bond. So everybody take it easy. If you need to get a haircut or something, you'll have time. All right. Hongton said number one approval of the November 20th, 2018 city council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to approve the budget adjustment.
 Any amount of $400 representing donation revenue to the Federal Fire Department for the annual Employee Service Awards event. Number three. A resolution to authorize acceptance of an Arkansas Firewise grant from the Arkansas Forestry Commission. Any amount of $500 for use by the Fire Department to approve a budget adjustment. Number four.
 A resolution to approve a three year lease agreement with the exclusive flight LLC DBA after glow aircraft solutions for the airport hangar and 4158 South School Avenue for renting the amount of $850 per month. Number five.
 A resolution to approve tea hangar lease agreements in 2019 at the current rental rate or as adjusted upward by the airport board for all tea hangars rented at the federal executive airport. Number six, a resolution to approve a two-year rent-free lease agreement with Smokin' A's Barbecue LLC for space in the airport terminal building for the operation of a barbecue restaurant. I'll be—
 Going there. All right number seven a resolution to award bid number 19-01 that authorized purchase of Reflectorized paint markings from Arkansas Fence and Guardrail and verbal outs and for varying unit prices is needed through the end of 2019.
 Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 19-02 and to authorize the purchase of carbon gutter construction from TriStar Contractors LLC as a primary supplier in variable amounts and authorizing the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2019. Number nine.
 a resolution to award bid number 19-03 and to authorize the purchase of truck hauling services from WC and Associates Incorporated as primary supplier and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2019. Number 10.
 A resolution to award bid number 19-04 and to authorize purchase of concrete from Tune Trucking Incorporated, DBA Tune Concrete Company as primary supplier in variable amounts and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2019. Number 11, a resolution to award bid number 19,
 19-05 and authorized purchase of aggregate materials from Hunt Rogers Materials LLC as primary supplier to authorize the use of other bidders based on price availability as needed through the end of 2019 number 12 a resolution award bid number 19-07 to authorize the purchases of hillside gravel from last Rogers Corp
 incorporated in varying amounts and for variable unit price needed through the end of 2019. Number 13, a resolution awarded number 19-08, an authorized purchase of plastic drainage pipe for varying unit prices from various vendors based on individual job design specification and cost evaluation as needed through the end of 2019.
 number 14 a resolution award bid number 19-09 and to authorize the purchase of concrete drainage pipe from serlock industries incorporated primary supplier in variable amounts as needed through the end of 2019. number 15 a resolution award bid number 19-10 and to authorize purchase of screen top soil from les rogers incorporated primary suppliers needed through the end of 2019. number 16 a resolution award bid number 19-11 the authorized purchase of retaining
 Wall blocks for varying unit prices from various vendors based on individual job design specification and cost evaluation is needed through the end of 2019 number 17 resolution award bid number 19 dash 12 and authorized purchase of high-performance Coal mix asphalt from Hudson construction company as need through the end of 2019 number 18 resolution award bid number 18 dash 54 and authorized contract with the
 J.B.Z. Incorporated DBA Ellingson Contracting in the amount of $228,752.58 for the resurfacing of the basketball court and installation of new tennis court lights at Wilson Park and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $21,078.42.
 Number 19, a resolution to approve budget adjustment in a total amount of $1,070 representing donations to Ranger's Pantry, the Senior Giving Tree, and the Hearth Program. Number 20, a resolution to approve the first two-year renewal contract with Startup Junkie Consulting LLC to provide economic development services in the areas of entrepreneurship and innovation in a total amount of $300,000. Number 21, a resolution to approve the first two years
 year renewal contract with the federal chamber of commerce to provide economic development consulting services in the areas of business recruitment retention and expansion in a total amount of three hundred sixty thousand dollars number twenty two a Resolution to authorize the acceptance of a green infrastructure grant funded to the Illinois River watershed Partnership, I understand that has been pulled. Is that correct? I
 number 22 yes that's the one that needs to be pulled all righty number 22 has been pulled I continue on number 23 a resolution pursuant to 39.10 C4 of the Federal City code to authorize the mayor to pay the amount of ten thousand seventy nine dollars to Pathway Baptist Church for a water damage claim arising at 3395 Westmouth Comfort Road number 24 resolution authorized purchase of a
 backup storage device from CDW government LLC in the amount of $116,021.02 pursuant to ProMark GSA scheduled cooperative purchasing contract and to approve project tenancy in the amount of $5,811.05. Number 25, resolution to authorize purchase of information technology products and services from CDW government LLC
 on an as-needed basis pursuant to National Intergovernmental Purchasing Alliance Contract 201-801-1-013, February 28, 2023, and any future renewal periods. Number 26, a resolution to accept the settlement offer from Hustle Holdings, LLC, and authorize purchase of a water sewer easement from Hustle Holdings, LLC, on property located at 1521 West Hustle Road.
 in the amount of $25,000 for the Greenwater Line Improvement Project. Number 27, a resolution to authorize a one-year contract with No Time Technology incorporated for upgrades to the city's electronic employee timekeeping system in the amount of $3,700 for setup costs and estimated discounted monthly fees of $2,064 for the first year plus applicable taxes based on the number of city employees and to approve
 future automatic renewals of the contract with rate increases not to exceed five percent above the standard estimated monthly fee of $2,820 based on the number of city employees
 All right. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read, but remember item 22 needs to be omitted. Do we need to pull it from the agenda? Well, it will actually be at the very next thing. As soon as you pass the consent agenda, then we need to address it and it just needs to be tabled indefinitely. All right. I will entertain a motion. All right. Sarah. Yeah. We're both on here. Oh, okay. All righty. I make a motion that we approve the consent agenda as read.
 right as red yes all right and sarah second have a motion in the second to pass the consent agenda is red and item 22 will be discussed later all right sonny would you please call rome yes yes yes right yes march yes yes yes all right now did you say we're going to discuss 22 now
 Yes, I don't know if we have someone the staff to explain this all right mayor there There are just some problems with the actual waiver and the Licensure of the contractor so this is going to be tabled and definitely brought back in a future date By tabling it indefinitely will fall off of the agenda on 12 31 2018. So when we bring it forward, it'll be the new year anyway Okay, so you want to table for we'd like a motion to table indefinitely indefinitely, okay
 Sarah Movie table it indefinitely All right. Well, there we go. So something would you please call the roll? Yes Yes. Yes Yes. Yes Yes Now we go on to unfinished business number one
 An ordinance calling and setting a date for a special election on the questions of the issuance of city, by the city of sales and use tax refunding bonds and sales and use tax capital improvement bonds for various purposes, levying a replacement special local sales and use tax at the rate of 1% for the purpose of retiring such bonds and prescribing other matters pertaining thereto. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 So moved. Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch. Yes. Latere. Yes. Kent. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kennedy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Thank you so much.
 An ordinance calling and setting a date for a special election on the questions of the issuance by the city of sales and use tax Refunding bonds and sales and use tax capital improvement bonds for various purposes levying a replacement special local sales and use tax at the rate of 1% for the purpose of retiring such bonds and prescribing other matters pertaining thereto Okay, I understand there's an amendment. Is this where we, do you want to discuss the amendment?
 Yeah, probably the first thing we ought to do, as you know, we had a special work session and I have submitted to you some proposed language and we would need to have a motion to amend it to that language and a second get it on the floor. Then if you want to change anything after that, that's what you could do at that point in time. And as you know, I gave it to you also tonight in printed form in the red square. Okay. Adele.
 I move that we pass this in the amended form. Let's just do the amendment. Just move the amendment first, please. I move that we pass the amendment. Justin. Second. I motion second to pass the amendment. Okay, so now let me go ahead and read the amendment so everybody knows what we're talking about. And this would be additional language that goes into the kind of the near the end of question eight to further explain it.
 prior to the removal or loss of 25 or more public parking spaces from the Walton Arts Center parking lot, also known as the West Avenue parking lot, due to any development of or construction on such lot related to the cultural arts corridor.
 The city must ensure the availability of sufficient net new public parking spaces to fully replace all public parking spaces removed, lost, or likely to be removed or lost within the near future from the Walton Arts Center parking lot and not plan to be promptly replaced below, upon, or above the current parking area.
 These replacement parking spaces must be within reasonable proximity to the Walton Arts Center, which would include any public parking deck spaces at the City's School Avenue parking lot or on the currently privately owned land north of Dixon Street, west of West Avenue, east of the railroad tracks and south of Lafayette,
 or on any other parking lot or facility in which all replacement parking spaces are within 1,000 feet of the Walton Arts Center public entrance.
 All right, Peter. Mayor and Council, as was requested at the agenda session workshop you all had last Tuesday, we took a look at the originally proposed amended language that talked about walking distance from the Curtin-Walton Arts Center entrances.
 And I believe the original amended language talked about a distance distance It was 1.5 times the existing walking distance from the current Walton Arts Center entrances to the furthest parking space in the Walton Arts Center parking lot or the West Avenue parking lot across the street we measured that distance at 646 feet And when you multiply 1.5 times that you get a nine hundred and sixty nine feet And so what we have prepared
 In in place of that walking distance measurement is just an actual rate simple radius from the West Avenue entrance to the Walton Arts Center that is 1,000 feet
 in radius from that Walmart center location, you can see what the what that radius looks like on the map that is on the screen. It is the dotted line that is labeled proximity parking. You can see that to the north that extends to roughly the intersection of West Avenue and Lafayette Street.
 To the west it extends to Arkansas Avenue to the east it extends almost to Church Avenue and to the south that extends To Hillcrest Tower it does encompass the three primary locations that we've been looking at and discussing as possible Replacement parking locations which are labeled a B and C on the map. Those are the school Avenue parking lots
 across from the Walton Arts Center offices, the depot parking lot where the train bank is located at the northwest corner of Dixon and West, and then the location where Nadine Baum Studios is currently located. You all will be discussing a little later in your agenda
 a contract with Garber engineers to do a site selection analysis on up to five replacement parking locations. So we have some room and flexibility to identify two more locations within that circle that would be looked at as part of that Garber analysis for that replacement parking. Okay. What questions do we have for Pete? Sure. Peter, and this may be a question too, you
 i wrote down the word prior when you you mentioned prior to any taking up 25 or more spaces that that these would have to be recognized or built what's the clarification there you would certainly start i think you actually have to start the construction or start the acquisition of the parking spaces now you can remove up to 25 uh without doing anything for example if we need them for safety purposes or something
 But once you hit the 25 or the 26 level I should say at that point then the city needs to be Really in the process of getting a replacement. It could also be that it'd be in a public-private partnership So, you know It might be that the public spaces would be actually provided by someone in the in the private area as long as they are actually public parking spaces they can't be dedicated for residents and
 where the public couldn't use them, but as long as they're actually public parking spaces, it could be handled by a private entity also. And that would qualify as net new at that point? Yes, as long as they are net new. In other words, if we build on a parking lot or a current one, even if it's privately owned as a parking lot, those spaces are already part of our parking infrastructure. And so I'm saying net new, meaning that there's 290 spaces on the Walton Arts Center parking lot,
 And that's the number that needs to be probably replaced in one of these other locations. And if you lose parking spaces in the other location by building a deck, then they must be replaced to get to the net new 290 spaces. And I was asked by a couple of property owners around the entertainment district that rent one as a condo, one as a home, and they have –
 they have residential parking spaces included in there. I mean, the people that live there have a space, but they also have a sticker so that they can park in the residential numbered spaces where you have residential parking only in space whatever. So those couldn't be taken by the city and used. His worry was, is the city going to take the residential spaces that my tenants use to park in
 and are you going to turn those into publicly available spaces, then it's going to be harder for me to rent a place down here to people and not provide any parking. I do not think that any of the spaces that currently are in our residential plan where people get permits who are residents there to park there, I don't think that they would be allowed to be counted as new public parking spaces.
 If the city, for some reason, decided to try to end that residential parking plan. Okay. Because they were public parking before, and if they were just returned to public parking, they're really –
 no net increase in parking. And also I think it would probably be pretty unfair to the residents to have our plan that we've had for years and all of a sudden say, well, now we're taking that plan away from you. So I don't view that as a possibility. I was just asked because it's a fair ask of the person that owns that property because they don't live there but they rent it, and part of the reason that the people rent it, they need a place to park their car. So they're worried about that. So the words prior and –
 net new become really important there. So I just want to make sure everybody's comfortable with that. And, and, and I'm more comfortable with it now. So I appreciate it. And Peter, you and I, I think I've talked about it a little bit. This would not include the library deck or the downtown square parking lots, right? That's, that's beyond the 1000 foot. It's kind of hard for the public to see that, but that is correct. The, both, both,
 The so the library deck current library deck would be the blue square south of the the exterior of the perimeter of the circle.
 And then the downtown lots would be the green rectangles there to the south and east of the downtown squares all the way in Right corner quadrant. Okay, so the short answer is yes, both of those parking So these are outside of the 1,000 foot radius Understood. Yeah, and I understand the point behind it. I just I just want to make as many people comfortable as possible with this And so that that answers my question on those things. So thank you very much. I
 Okay, what other questions we have Peter on this? Mm-hmm. Okay. Okay Let's open it up for some public comment everybody kind of knows rules so who'd like to be first they're right clear on the amendment Okay. Yeah, come on Robert Stafford 527 South Sherman Ward 1 Is it possible to bring back up the image? Sure Cool
 i'm wondering is it not possible at all to include any parking in the existing lot where the arts corridor is going to happen in the west street parking lot
 It's the language that actually says that if you replace parking there, then you don't have to replace it anywhere else. Okay. It's only the net loss to that lot. Okay, so there could be parking included in the arts corridor project? It would have to be public parking, so if somebody built a residential project and built parking for their residence, that wouldn't count, but if they have public parking spaces, that would count and would not have to be replaced. Okay.
 Okay, another concern would be we're building an arts corridor. We're looking at maybe tearing down the Baum building, which is an arts facility and an arts building. It seems kind of counterintuitive. I don't plan on tearing that down. What's that? I'm not going to tear that down. Okay. Another thing that maybe concerns me is that when I look at the –
 Is that School Street on the backside? Where the one to the... School Street on the east? Yeah. That may be within a radius, but you can't walk a straight line to the front door on West Street to WAC from there. You have to go around the block. For most of us here, for a lot of us, walking an extra block or two isn't going to hurt us. It's probably going to benefit us.
 A lot of the supporters of Theater Squared and the Walton Arts Center are elderly. My mom's 83. She's in good shape now. God bless. But, you know, who knows what happens. And so a block to some of the supporters of these institutions may be the difference between going to see their favorite show or staying home. And I just want people to consider that when you're considering, you know, putting parking further away.
 from where it is now? That is right, actually, across the street from the Walnut Center, as you know, and it's right next to the... Is there an entrance on that side, though?
 There's an entrance in the front, but that's the way people currently park in the Spring Street deck walk. Okay. That's what I do. I mean, you have to – it's about a half a block around, and then you have to walk into the front. But it's – So it would add about an extra half block maybe? Well, it's probably the closest parking deck, especially where you don't have to cross a big street. Yeah. The only one that could possibly be closer would be the Dixon West one, but then you have to cross either Dixon Street or West Street, which might be more difficult, actually. But –
 That's one of our closest options. Okay. I do think it would be really sad to lose the Bank of Fayetteville train also. That's kind of a landmark. But we're not going to touch the train either. Okay. Train to Depot is fine too. We'll leave that alone too, but we'll start somewhere. Maybe in there. We're working on all that now. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. So if we could leave the map. Lucas Renier, 3191 North Catherine. Okay.
 If I just heard correctly that we're not going to tear down Navy Bomb. I don't plan on doing that. That would be a last resort to do. And we don't plan on purchasing or eminent domaining the train bank. Well, I'll just – we're in negotiations with some property owners around there. We'll just see how that goes. Okay. If those are non-starters, then I would urge the council to vote down this amendment. Do what? If we are –
 When I look at the map and see new parking opportunities and one of which includes the destruction of the Nadine Baum Arts Center Where a number of programs are held You don't plan on knocking that down so that's not gonna be a parking opportunity. It's not an it's not a new parking Okay, so if the buildings in place it's ergo not a new parking opportunity same with the train bank I
 In those cases, none of these are new parking opportunities. I would urge the council to vote down this amendment. It starts where the train ends and it goes to Lafayette. We're in discussions with Greg House. We're in discussions with the... There may be some new parking opportunities there, but it is currently used as a bank. It is owned by farmers and merchants, Bank of Stuttgart or whoever, but it's going to stay there.
 And again subject to those you know if those don't genuinely present new parking opportunities as Represented on this map then I don't think this is I don't I think this map is a non-starter I think it's not a selling point to the public and I would urge the council to vote it down. Okay. Thank you sir I'll step on out there
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. If we don't want Dixon Street to dry up and blow away, under current technologies, we have to have parking. Now, I expect the next new car I buy will drive itself, but that's probably four or five years down the road. And I look forward to the day when I can tell my, on my phone, car, come get me, or car, go home and park in the garage. I'll need you in two hours. And I think that will happen in my lifetime, certainly my children's lifetime.
 Google sometimes, Volvo future cars. You'll be amazed at what you can do in a car these days or what they're projecting you can do. But that's coming technology. That's not today. Today, we still need parking places. And I, for one, do not want to see Dixon Street dry up and blow away. But if people can't get there and have a place to park and feel safe walking from their car to the venue, we're going to see a diminution of the value
 The growth and the robustness of Dixon Street I like sales tax dollars and Dixon Street is a big generator of sales tax dollars. We don't have sales tax dollars We can't pay our firefighters or our police officers what they should be paid. So I'm a big proponent of a robust economic Engine on Dixon Street and for that we need parking. Thank you Who else
 The idea that we will replace any parking out of the WAC lot is something I think that's very important, but the bigger picture here is the bond issue itself.
 And the comfort level that people will have for, in my opinion, the much more important pieces of the bond, which are not arts corridors, but that are fire and police and roads and parks. And I will just say this as a caution to the council, that as you all look next year at some of the details around maybe what this arts corridor will be as the voters vote.
 turn to this, when the voters get in that booth and have a chance to vote on whether or not they want to spend 30 plus million dollars on an arts corridor, there's been a surprising number of people to me that are both unsure or just flat out against it. And the questions have had the conversation has gone usually something like this.
 So this is a $30 million park that you guys want to build on the WAC lot. And I say, no, $30 million comes from this, this, and this many million go to a parking deck. Then they usually say, why do we need a parking deck? And I say, well, because you would take the only parking lot that you really have down there, the last flat surface that the Walnut Art Center uses. And they say, so you have to build a park in order to need the parking deck. So it's a $30 million park. Right.
 And it's tough to argue that sometimes because...
 We've heard conversations up here and in the city that some other parts of the bond are not for the greater good, that some of the pieces, say the baseball fields, are only for a small percentage of the community. Where I would say, I can prove how many people use those if I look at baseball fields, the amount of teams, the amount of kids per team, the amount of tournaments, the amount of days they're there. I can multiply all those out and show you a number.
 I can't show you a number of people that will walk up and down a park on the whack lot. I'm not saying it's a bad idea. I'm just saying there's a lot of people who are asking questions like, what is it going to look like? Council Member Marsh made a great point last Monday or Tuesday in our agenda session that
 It doesn't really seem like we have a complete plan when it comes to what this is going to be now That's not necessary right now, and I think moving this forward to the voters is the most important thing But I'm for moving this forward to the voters don't get me wrong, but I hope that the council will take into consideration that the more
 you put into it and the more, you can call it unclear or you can say whatever you want, making people uncomfortable with this particular piece of the bond will hurt the arts corridor getting past. And in some cases, I've heard people say, look, maybe you need to look at some of these other pieces if this is what you're putting out for me to vote for on an arts corridor. And I'm just telling you what is being heard.
 So I just want to make sure we caution that we make it as clear to the voters as possible by the time they step in that booth so that it's not just a $30 million park that they're voting on. It wasn't that long ago that we put the idea of developing the WAC lot to bed, and then all of a sudden this Walton grant came, and it was like somebody grabbed the baton and ran with it. We finally get to develop it. Sweet. We finally get to do it. Well, I don't know that a majority of people even want us to do it.
 Right now I've got a lot of unclear people looking at me saying, why are we doing that? Well, because everybody likes parks. Okay, why is there a river in it? Well, because we like water. And there's going to be a handful of artists sitting there and paint. I'm not against artists. I'm not against any of that. But you've got to understand that the city sometimes looks at what we do, and even if we're not responsible for it, they blame the city. I don't know who painted the mural across from Sassy's on North College.
 I don't. I don't know if A&P paid for it. I don't know if we paid for it. I should know that. But I can tell you that I've had more than 50 people say, why didn't we paint this way to downtown or keep Fayetteville funky or buy local? Instead, we did a New Mexico landscape with waves and people meditating.
 It didn't fit. Now, beauty is in the eye beholder, and some people may love it. But I'm just saying people look at the city and say, why did you do that? My answer is usually, did you go to any input sessions? Did you voice your opinion? Did you do any of that kind of stuff? The answer is usually no. So that's another heads up for people out there that are listening. That if you wonder why this arts corridor was built this way, it's because everybody that went to the meetings were artists and people that like bikes and not everybody, but a majority.
 So get involved, make sure that you're answering questions and that you're making yourself known, especially as this council over the next few months and weeks creates what this really will be so that you know that $30 million of your money is going to create a park and maybe a parking lot that may or may not be necessary. It's a nice to have.
 but don't forget that the things we must have in this city fire and police parks roads sidewalks they're in this bond too so i think i did a little bit of this damage in bringing this parking to the forefront and i i won't apologize for it because i think it's very important but i don't want this to hijack the entire idea of the bond the idea of the bond is the essential city services and things that we have to have and the economic development side is imperative
 The arts corridor, you know, take it or leave it if you want. But in reality, I think we've done what we need to do here in laying out a commitment to parking. And again, I said this before, the mayor has said all along he'll replace parking that he takes. He's never wavered from that. But I just wanted to make sure that 10 years from now, if we finally decide as a city to go forward with something, that we have something that locks us down.
 So I hope people are comfortable with it, and I hope that you'll look at the other pieces and parts of this bond as absolutely essential because they are, and I'll be definitely pushing for those things as we move forward in the coming weeks and months. So I thank the council for their work ahead because you've got a lot coming your way. Thank you very much. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Adele. Well, I think that economic development is –
 Yes, priority and sales tax. But I see this park, this civic space. I was so impressed. And I told Peter Nearinggarden, I was so impressed with the team who developed the plan
 And they come from a city very similar to ours. And what we have here that we want is so, so, so much more than a park. It's a lovely place, a sense of place.
 which I've heard our Chamber of Commerce president talk about so much, that that's part of what we have to sell of the city of Fayetteville, a sense of place. And so...
 I personally see the park and the small businesses and restaurants and coffee shops and boutiques that will surround it as well as the large building at one end of it, which will bring people to the downtown area. I see it as a huge economic development piece for our city.
 And of course, we do not want to give up the parking. And I think the amendment that our city attorney has worded is, to me, it's clear.
 I think that, you know, we're a diverse community, and there's always going to be folks who have questions, and that's the beauty of our community. And we do want to clarify. I certainly agree with Councilmember Tennant. We need to clarify as much as possible. But I think we also need to sell the beauty of the park
 and what it's going to do for our sense of place in Fayetteville. Okay. Don. Mayor, I want to speak a little bit on behalf of the staff and the grantor, the Walton Family Foundation, who provided unprecedented design funding for a project for the city today.
 to take you back to when you approved it, we don't spend $1.77 million to design parks. That's the first thing I would say. People keep calling it that. This is not a park. This is an economic development driver. If you look at just the improvements that the city made on Block Street,
 And think about the private development that has begun to go in and fill in the spaces and create more housing and more businesses. We're seeing it before our very eyes on Block Street. If you go back to 2007 when Council Member Gray was here, it was a street that didn't hardly have parking on it. The people flew down that didn't have anywhere to stop and do anything. And it began incremental development as a result of a public investment just on street improvement.
 This project is an economic development project. It should generate private investment around the entire corridor because it becomes more valuable to live closer to it. It's a programmable space. It's just like a theater except it's outdoors. And we know what the Walton Arts Center and what we anticipate Theater Squared and what the Fayetteville Public Library does to drive individuals into this area.
 The great thing about this is that the public will weigh in on it, and if they don't see the benefit of it, and they don't see what it will do in terms of driving an experience, something to be additional entertainment, public investment, private investment,
 and partnerships with it, they won't vote for it, and we won't have it, and none of us are going to have to worry about any of this discussion. But I think it's going to be a huge missed opportunity. Crystal Bridges is fostering development in Bentonville. Its square is changing. Its path and venue there is changing because of investments.
 There's one of these downtown outdoor cultural projects that were funded for all the cities up and down the corridors, and ours is the largest. And it's the largest because it's probably the most valuable piece of property in the state, or this entire corridor, from the library to downtown.
 If you think about our downtown, other than businesses coming and going, not a lot has changed about how we have developed and what experiences we have to bring people downtown. And this is our opportunity. It is a civic space, not a park. Go to Claude Warren Park in Dallas and see what kind of private investment has been made as a result of that public investment. Go to City Garden Park, where a private foundation funded a park there
 associated with the All-Star game and what it has done long-term economically for the city in st. Louis we have issues that need to be addressed about where people are going to come in this is not only parking for the Walton Arts Center but parking with the people who are going to come to the cultural arts corridor so and that we can't handle parking needs just by having service parking options in the short term
 And long-term technology may change things when we look on this in 20 years, just like we looked back at the university and see it almost doubling in the period that just Councilmember Gray has been on the council. So we do have one huge job in this, and that is that we have to tell a story different because even if you all are calling it a park,
 We got a lot of work to do because this is way more than a park. It has economic impact. It has private investment. When we do street improvements and do underground utilities and widen sidewalks and improve lighting, we make every lot adjacent to it more buildable at a lower cost that brings the people to surround this, which only drives this value up even higher. And we need revenue opportunities. You can't cut yourself to run a city.
 you have to raise the top line. I've heard Councilmember LaTour say all the time, look at sales. Well that's what we're doing, we're making a sales investment. And so we have to get the public to buy in on it, because ultimately they have to vote for it. And if the Arts Center doesn't see it as a value, right across their front door, one of the groups who should value most and be able to help us with even additional programming opportunities,
 If they don't see it, then it won't pass. If the merchants don't see it, if the residents don't see it, if the library doesn't see it, if our environmentalists don't see it for stormwater and tree preservation, this has appeal across the board in a broad aspect, and it has job opportunities because this is programmable space that will create job opportunities. So this is much more than a park. It's an economic development investment.
 to add an outdoor Crystal Bridges in Fayetteville to anchor culturally our region. And that's why the Walton Family Foundation believed in Fayetteville to have this. And this discussion is not unanticipated. My point being is that when we made this application, we said the most difficult part of this will be talking about parking. And we didn't need a crystal ball to tell us that. And now you're trying to address it to get people to be willing to invest in it. And...
 We do have a lot that is utilized 90% of the time on three days of the week currently without any of this additional investment. So we have to deal with this issue. But I want to really emphasize, and we will do our best to create educational material to educate the citizens, but this is way bigger than a park. This is huge.
 truly a cultural corridor, an outdoor theater, music venues, art venues, gathering places, places for people to go eat lunch down there, opportunities to expand our businesses onto the streets and not just indoors, and to turn us into a more vibrant community. I hope we don't miss that opportunity. All right. Who else wants to address this? Okay. Thank you.
 We have a motion to second to amends. Any other discussion from the council on the amendment? Now, I want to make this clear. I guess we're going to get into then we have to get into the ordinance as a whole. Well, once the amendment is done, then you talk about everything. Okay, but I just want to address this parking issue. This has been going on and I've been dealing with this for several months now. Actually, we've been working on this bond issue for two years.
 Probably a year and a half, two years. But on the parking issue, if you look at the tape from 2015 when we opened up that deck, is Joe Fennell in the house tonight? He's not? He made a statement that we're not going to take the parking away from Dixon Street because everybody's going to want to develop it.
 I made a statement at that meeting at that ribbon cutting that I have maintained for the last three years For every space you take out of that Walton Arts Center parking lot I want a new space in close proximity To the Walton Arts Center. Does anybody remember that tonight? Anybody? Thank you.
 You know, the thing is, folks, I'm not going to go down there and destroy the Walton Arts Center. I'm not going to go down there and destroy businesses. Any mayor that's got any sense is not going to do that. Just not going to do it. Now, we're not going to touch that parking lot at all until we've got replacement parking in the downtown area. That's going to happen. Anyway, as long as I'm here, that's going to happen. You have my word on that. That's not going to change.
 Now, I might build that corridor to the mouth of that parking lot, but we're going to hold it up there until I get replacement parking in there. I don't have – everybody says, well, where are you going to put it? How's it going to be? We're working with private owners down there right now to work on a public-private type partnership down there. I don't have a crystal ball. I don't know how it's all going to work out. I'm going to keep the train and the depot. I'm not going to destroy the name-bomb studios down there.
 But somehow, someway, we're going to get a parking structure or replacement parking from where that train ends to Lafayette. That's why I wanted a 1,000-foot radius where I got some space to get where I need to get. Now, I'm not going to all that trouble just to go down there and start knocking out parking spaces, Walmart Center parking lot. I'm not going to do that. Just not going to do it. Now, is everybody clear on that? I just want – all right. I'm sorry. No, you may not.
 I Think you know this is something that we have an amendment before us. We're not going to touch the parking down there We'll we'll develop the replacement parking That's what this amendment is for where everybody with the Dixon Street business owners feel country Walton are comfortable and Walton Art Center Feels comfortable the Chamber of Commerce. We're not going to go down and wreck Dixon Street I've been here too long to do that. So we will provide the replacement parking now I
 Now, whether you vote for the arts corridor or not, that's your business. You don't think I'm going to keep my word, we're not going to have a replacement parking down there, then you won't vote for the arts corridor. And this council will do the same thing.
 If you believe we're going to do the replacement parking, if you believe in the arts corridor, if you believe in the sense of place, if you believe that it's going to be environmentally friendly, all that stormwater runoff, we're going to address that. Everybody says, well, why are you putting a channel in there? The reason we're putting the channel in there is to be able to address the stormwater runoff. And last but not least, it's going to support the arts. And that includes the Walton Arts Center. That you have my word on. With that, somebody would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. So at this point you have the entire ordinance, the whole entire bond ordinance with all the questions and all that is before you. Okay. Now it is only on the second reading though. It is on the second reading. What discussion do we have among the council on the amended ordinance? Now,
 Once again, we will take some public comment as the ordinance as a whole. Now, Lucas, you can address us if you'd like. So we'll open it up to public comment, same rules apply. Okay. What public comment do we have? I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sorry. I'm sorry. Yes. Hello, Mayor. My name is Dana Bassey, and I currently live at 1649 North Timber Ridge Court.
 but will soon be moving back to my family home at 1525 Heffley. This home and lot is adjacent to a narrow strip of woods, which is part of the Lewis Park property. I would like to address, I think it's Part B, Section 4, Question 5. Well, we're on the arts corridor. Oh, I'm so sorry. We're going to take discussion on that. Yeah, we're on the entire ordinance of it.
 Oh, I'm sorry. Okay, okay, okay. Yeah, come back up. I'm sorry. We're on the entire thing. I thought we were just dealing with. I thought that. Okay. Okay, sorry. It's all right. You had me there. Did I? Yes, we restarted your call. Thanks, because I'm nervous. That threw me a little bit. Okay, so question five. Okay. Of the agenda items tonight.
 I know that this represents many hours of serious and caring discussion by the Parks Recreation Advisory Board. I appreciate very much the way they have listened to the citizens who have repeatedly attended their meetings. I feel they understand that Fayetteville residents want to keep Lewis Park and are helping to make this happen. I also appreciate the City Council members who understand how important it is. And though I'm nervous...
 Standing here in front of you, you have to believe that this is very important to me. I also am aware that I represent many others who are just as concerned about Lewis Park. If this part of the bond issue is approved, and I'm confident it will be, the amount allotted at this time toward the purchase of Lewis Park from the seller, which is the University of Arkansas, would be insufficient to cover the asking price.
 From what I understand, the Fayetteville schools have expressed interest in adding funds to cover the cost. If that occurs, that's great. My concern is that there are a few ifs, and there is a short and rapidly closing window of time remaining to purchase Lewis Park for the Fayetteville citizens.
 I strongly believe that the citizens have made their wishes known about keeping this land open and available, land already open and used and in a perfect spot to be available in that part of town. It is worrying that even with all the hard work by board members, fundraisers, signs, Will Dockery's leadership,
 awareness in the media, et cetera, a scenario could exist whereby the funding would be insufficient for that entire asking price or not come soon enough. My question to you is, would it be possible to have a contingency plan just in case to fund the entire project?
 land all of the projects suggested and by the board are worthy and Many and maybe a few could wait to be funded a bit later to accommodate just in case the funds are insufficient the land is available now and Once it's gone. It's gone. I
 I've been reading the vision plans up here and The 2030 city plan includes that we will assemble an enduring green network the
 2050 guiding principles include naturally beautiful city. And I think Lewis Park would definitely add to both of those. Thank you. Well, I would like to just address one thing on that issue is that we've been in negotiations with the University of Arkansas on negotiations with federal public schools. I think the school board passed a resolution, did they not, to partner with us?
 Yes, sir. So just the process of what we've done is the city has to, in the purchase or sale of land, have our own appraisal. So we have conducted our own appraisal of the property. We have presented that to the University of Arkansas Agricultural Division. Our number appraisal is lower than the appraisal that they had.
 They had spoke with both entities, both the city of Fayetteville and the Fayetteville public school district about a joint purchase if they take an appraisal amount that is lower than their original appraisal. So I think what the parks board's initial discussion was, while there was some discussion about the entire purchase price of, I think they're asking was 4.1 million or 4.2, it's
 They actually talked with us about a joint purchase and the city and the school district do own multiple pieces of land together or buildings some gyms
 some ball fields at various schools. And so that's where the discussion has started. There had not been initially a lot of interest from the University of Arkansas agricultural system to sell it to only one of the entities because both entities had expressed interest in it. The school district because it abuts Asbell and the city because we use it for soccer and parks. So that's why the negotiation was initially done the way that it was done.
 I'm just reiterating what is there but they have also agreed to not post the property for sale until the city addresses the bond issue and determines whether the citizens support funding for it. So we have a lease on the field that with an opportunity to extend
 With a first right of refusal that if they were to get an offer, the city has and the school district have a time period to respond before it could be sold to anyone else. So that's the current situation. I'm sorry I didn't know all of that. Well, you know, we've just been in negotiations. We're trying not to negotiate in public. I see. Well, thank you for the information. Thank you very much.
 Okay, Mayor, I apologize for coming up here three times in one night. You saw me shaking my head, and you invited me to attend the podium. The bond ordinance as drafted is excellent. I will do everything in my power, which ain't much, to support it and advocate for it.
 Press for its approval So far as people are willing to listen to me. I think it's great The only why you saw me shaking my head was my concern is that when people see these magenta I'm looking at the map. It's still up here on the iPad They see these little magenta blocks covering up the Nadine Baum Center and the train bank and etc, etc They're gonna look at that and think notwithstanding Your representation with I hardly believe I do believe I
 um they're going to look at that and think well the city is going to tear down the 18 bomb center and so my concern with that was you know if there could be some sort of greater clarification about the parking issues downtown because you look at this this is going to cause people some heartburn subject to that i absolutely again thank everybody here for the incredible amount of hard work this for the staff for the incredible amount of hard work they've done to make this happen
 And I'll be doing everything I can to help get this elected. Thank you. Thank you very much. Hello, my name is Joy Indicott. I live at 1495 North Stevens Avenue. I'm very pleased to hear some of these new developments in the process of purchasing Lewis Soccer Fields Park. I would like to express...
 The idea that it might be possible to reallocate some of the current funds for parks improvements that we already own to dedicate them more distinctly to the purchase of this park. It is a time sensitive window, whereas parks that we already own, we own them. We can work towards improving them in the future. This is something that is a short short answer. We need to, we need to move on this quickly. Um, this park is,
 I think very centrally located. It is one of those things, I keep hearing you guys say this term, sense of place. I think this is a large section of the city where it's highly densely populated and we just keep adding more apartments to this area. Those apartments behind Harps are massive and they are curb to curb. Adding that many more people in the area pretty much requires that we have a park in this area that people can walk and bike to.
 On top of that, we need more parks, not less. All of our parks are great. This one is also something I feel that we need to value. And we've already invested a great deal of money in the infrastructure and improvement of this land.
 So I would just like to encourage you guys to maybe readdress that. I believe it's question five to allocate completely for the purchase of this park because Fayetteville public school seems to have found a solution to their parking issue, which again, what the rumor was that they wanted to put, they wanted to buy this field to put a baseball park there, which is nice. I prefer baseball to more sports.
 Crowding and housing development. However a baseball field is a single use single sex will be closed down to public access for most of the time. This field exists as a flexible multi use space and I just want to speak on behalf of doing everything you can to find a way to get it as soon as possible. We're working on that. Nobody wants to lose the fields. Thank you. We've been in negotiation with the schools and the university. We.
 I know Will's been working on this for a number of times. That's why we extended the lease. We're trying to stay in negotiations. We're working with the schools. They passed resolutions that they would partner up with us
 And I we got we got to take this bond to the people and they're going to have to decide what they're going to do and then we can go back to the table again. So that's I appreciate all the work that's gone into it so far. I would just like to encourage that we look at long term and big picture if Fayetteville Public Schools schools does not find a solution to help.
 we need to find a way to do it and if we could allocate some of that other spending around and pull you know working on a little here and a little there and find the whole purchase price for us and i'm glad that our new appraisal which i'd love to see uh came in way under theirs because i thought it was overpriced so great thank you for the information i know that i the city attorney and i was talking today just because we have the parks list i mean the council will have the final decision it's like the design of the uh
 the core yes the bond itself must be approved by the voter so there's enough money to do stuff including lewis park yes and it'll be up to the city council really at the priorities on where they spend the money first and that'll be up to the council if the citizens pass the bond well i'm just trying to make it more appealing to the citizens you know so maybe that would be a helpful
 Can't to take you sure you can come back when there's thinking about it Thank you very much Might just also add that that question already does say that The money can be used for land acquisition So it doesn't while we have a list that talks about a price for it. It doesn't limit it to Just that one property or any other property only at that value. I
 Sure. Just since we're talking about that and it's going to keep coming up I suspect, what is our current, in the current plan for the parks bond, refresh my memory on the amount for park allocation? I think it was roughly 25 million. That's the whole park bond. What? 1.9 was in for, it was basically determined based on the school district already passed a resolution for 1.9 million.
 we put in the other half of it is how we got that number initially on the list. We're hearing that the project list is a wish list that can be rearranged as necessary when things happen, but this is how we got our number. This is what we're thinking right now. As of today, unless you all attend some other resolution on that item. All right. Thank you. That was the missing number in my head.
 Can I can remember when we did the parking deck we had six million dollars allocated for that parking deck? And I brought the first design in here and the council said there's no how no way Get yourself another design So I did I mean if I bring the parks list in and some of the council members are are the arts corridor So we don't like the looks of that and then we'll go back and redo I mean the council had finally thought because and the new council coming in they'll be looking at the faces of that and deciding What they want to do
 And just to, I guess, not beat this to death, but initially we were going to let the lease end because the city did not have a funding source for the purchase of it because you had used your last available funds for the purchase of Centennial Park.
 And we began to look for funding partners. We've reached out to multiple people then this bond discussion came forward So it made it live again. We negotiated a lease extension To have first right of refusal on the property if there was an offer that came forward to protect it If let's just say they got an offer on Monday you're gonna have X number of days from Monday to make a decision about whether how you want to proceed and
 whether you want to do it in partnership with the school district or not, what that would look like, where you'd get that funding from. But the current negotiation is they are waiting for the citizens decision on the funding of the parks question file. Okay, what else do we have? Who else would like to address this? Peter. Mr. Mayor, Peter Lane, 401 West Watson Street and president of the Walton Arts Center.
 I just want to commend the city for the cultural arts quarter. It is a bold vision. It is a grand picture of what the city can do with downtown. And I think it's a big step forward. It's very exciting.
 On behalf of Walton Arts Center, we're excited about the possibility of programming there. It dovetails nicely, as Don alluded earlier, with the kinds of programs we want to do, which is programs outside the wall, being able to do things with Artisphere and our children's programs and all the different initiatives that we do.
 And we place our faith and trust in the mayor and his commitment to replace any of the spots in West Avenue with proximity parking. And this has been an issue. When we talked about this project a number of years ago as a concept, that was the commitment that was made to the organization and to all the people who have livelihood on Dixon Street and the Entertainment District.
 We think the amended language is fine. It's, I think, gives comfort to the Walton Arts Center organization and all of our constituents, the hundreds of thousands of people that come downtown and spend tax dollars in the district.
 Bold plan has to have the ability to as Peter keeps telling me it has to bring new people in but it also has to Accommodate the folks who are currently there as well and any vision can do both This has that potential and so we we do like it. I think the amended language goes a long way and I Hope you all will support it enthusiastically because we will do the same and
 If it passes city council, thank you Thank you. All right. What other things that we want to yes, please. Hello mayor. My name is Anita Parisi I live at 36 58 Chatsworth Road in Fayetteville and
 I've spoken here a couple of times and I appreciate you listening. I thank you for hearing what I have to say tonight. I know that an aquatics facility in the parks plan may not happen now, but
 At this juncture, but I hope that the city will continue to educate themselves on aquatics and learn that several things that were mentioned last week at the agenda session were incorrect. Such that Christiansburg is not at all the kind of facility that the group that supports an aquatic facility would look at for those that don't know.
 That facility is home of the H2OKs, which is the Virginia Tech Men and Women's Competitive Swim Team, an NCAA swim team, swim teams for a university that is twice the size of the University of Arkansas. And we well know that that is not something at all that we could support here and is not something at all that we would want. Right.
 and that indeed the type of facility that we have talked about with the Parks and Rec Department in an enterprise plan that was given to us by Councilman Hunsaker, who is renowned as one of the best planning in aquatics facilities, as well as the feasibility
 Excuse me, not the feasibility, but the facilities director at USA Swimming, their enterprise plan of a $12 to $15 million facility indeed would have a $1 million operating cost. It would not be a $1 million subsidy.
 I would hope, as well as the plan presents, that if the facility is operated and managed with aquatics programming, that you could near perhaps a $0 subsidy from the city. So again, that $1 million subsidy mentioned last week I think was incorrect as well. Also, in the education that swim meets, not swim tournaments, we call them swim meets,
 can indeed happen at smaller sites. It does not have to be a world-class facility, as in Christiansburg. For example, Mount Sequoia, last summer, in a four-lane pool that was regulation size, however, we hosted three swim meets that drew on average 350 people to these swim meets, and of which only about 100 were from Fayetteville.
 the other 250 were coming from prairie grove from rogers from springdale and i believe they all ended up pretty much eating here because those meats were in the evening and ended in time such that the parents probably grabbed something to eat and contributed to our sales tax and hmr based here for a smaller facility than a world class one as a final note i hope that perhaps
 some of the 25 million that is currently labeled as funds to support other projects be used perhaps in the interim on an architectural membrane supported by an aluminum structure over the Wilson Park pool. This would provide still for the citizens to not only, as is one of the tenants of the Parks Department, to get fit and healthy and to fight obesity
 During the winter months not just in the summertime during nice days as with our current parks and facilities so I know that maybe you're tired with seeing me here, but I can't stop being passionate about saving people's lives Helping people be healthier and doing an activity that they can do From the time they're two three four months old until the time that they die. Thank you. Thank you
 Who else would like to address this on the bond as a whole? My name's Evelyn Rios. I live at 527 South Sherman.
 I'm also the vice chair of the Fayetteville Housing Authority and I know that it came to there was some discussion at the work session last week that this particular bond can't money can't be used directly for affordable housing but I just wanted to talk about how some members just for the clarification some members of the public
 who may not know this, at our last FHA meeting, Ally Quinlan gave a great presentation. She's working with one of the subcontractors with the group that's being paid by the Walton Family Foundation to come up with the planning for the arts corridor. And one of the interesting things from this proposal was to potentially, Hillcrest Towers is within,
 this thousand foot circle, which is one of our four public housing units. There's a large surface parking lot on the north side of Hillcrest Towers, which has approximately 120 parking spaces. One of the ideas she floated was to turn that parking lot to do excavation basically because it's on a slope. It could be turned into potentially a four-story parking garage with, you know,
 126 spaces per floor, which would come out to about, I gotta do the math on that, but anyway, there'd be plenty of spaces to replace all the replacement parking for residents there now and get you guys halfway to the replacement parking for the West Avenue parking lot.
 One of the ideas perhaps would be to do some sort of long-term lease between the FHA and the city. I don't speak for the whole commission, obviously. It would have to be approved on our side, but this could be a way to support the
 the mission of public housing indirectly and provide funds indirectly for public housing and affordable housing in the city through this bond even though it can't be done directly. Just wanted to put that out there. Of course, that would require FHA and the City Council working together, which is one of the goals that has been talked about in recent months, is working more closely together. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, who else would like to address this? Mr. Mayor, members of the council, I'm Steve Clark. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane. I'm the president of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, and we are your economic developer.
 First, on a point of personal privilege, if I might, on behalf of the Fayetteville Chamber, we would like to thank Councilman Latour, Councilman Tennant, and Councilwoman Gray for your service. It has meant a great deal to our city. We appreciate your commitment. We appreciate your sacrifice, and we appreciate your vision. Thank you so much for serving.
 I was here two weeks ago and I said, Mr. Mayor, to you and to the members of the council, that from the Chamber of Commerce perspective and from my position as your economic developer, we think this is a great bond issue. We think this shows vision. We think this creates opportunity. We do think it helps define our sense of place even more. And we see it as something that the Chamber will definitely support.
 Um, we, I mentioned then, and I want to thank you each, uh, for your work on working on the language about parking, because that is critical for the success of the entertainment district. And that's critical for the success of our city. Um, I was at your work session and I know how hard you did work and I know the thoroughness with which you discussed all of these issues. So I really want to compliment you on that.
 And Mr. Mayor, I was standing beside you when you cut that ribbon over there on the spring deck, and I have a hard hat that you autographed for me about that parking deck and about continuing to develop parking in our entertainment area in our city. So I do remember those comments that you made, and they were important and correct then, and they are important and correct tonight. Thank you.
 I do hope you will support this. I do believe that you will find the voters of our fair city will also support this. But I can tell you if you support this, you will find us arm in arm, shoulder to shoulder, singing the same song and making the same praise for this effort to lead our city better and further and in a more attractive way in the 21st century. Thank you, Steve. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 hi mr my name is carl doji 420 north sang avenue um i wanted to talk about the question five a little bit about the land acquisition a little bit more i hear what you guys are saying as far as um
 Being able to you mentioned that with the funding it doesn't necessarily have to go to land acquisition which is also can be the other way. And for right now a lot of us are a lot of unknowns. We just got some new information about you know the price and working with the school system. But when we go out there as citizens to talk to our friends and talk to other people to vote for these issues it's confusing to be like well we hope that there's going to be a partner in this and.
 We think that getting the full amount on there for Lewis is a lot more clear for people that we are for sure going to make this property be bought. And I think that it will energize people and it will energize us to go out to get convinced other people to then go energize other people to vote for question five and probably even more parts of the bond issue. We all know getting people out to vote is hard. We always want to find better ways to do that.
 I grew up at 420 North saying and across the street and attended as Bell Elementary And played soccer essentially in other sports in that area pretty much my whole life and I've seen
 over the years that Asbel's become a little less easy to use as field space So as far as working with the school I realized that if the University of Arkansas is once to you know, especially interesting plus once both people we can't you know Tell the people are selling land what they can do, but I do worry about the
 sharing something with the school system for the reasons that access can become limited. And I think that other people will also have that reservation. And as far as programmable space, which you guys talked about a little bit before, having an open green space that's not designated for any particular thing allows for so much more diversity in what goes on
 goes on out there. I go out, I used to, I lived in Denver for a couple years and each one of their areas has a nice park that's just green space a lot, feels a lot like Lewis Park. It'd be great to get like a jogging path around there, but Wash Park, which was my neighborhood park, was always full.
 Like in the morning, there's always runners. In the evening, there's always runners. During the day, there's just people out there. And essentially, it's just a bunch of green space with some trees around it. But people on Sundays are out there. Volleyball, you can't find any space because everybody's playing volleyball. We don't really have a lot of space like that that could be done. And that's what Lewis can provide us. But if we build a baseball field out there or something like that, that's only one use. Of course, it can be used a lot.
 If I mean, as you can see out at out of Kessler, I'm sure those baseball fields will be used quite a bit. But by keeping it open is one big green space. We can have it open for a ton of different people. So I do think that putting the full amount.
 into the land acquisition. And then if we end up getting partnership with the school system, that's great. We can move it around to be used somewhere else. But I do think that by putting it there now, it'll help sell the bill, the bond issue, sorry, to the rest of the city.
 and will hopefully let us maybe acquire new land that comes available just like Lewis did. It was great that it did come available. It was a little scary that we were gonna lose it because we didn't have the money. So I think having it there would be great. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Mackin. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Medalla. I second that motion. Okay.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Cady? Yes. Bennett? Yes. An ordinance calling and setting a date for a special election on the questions of the issuance by the city of sales and use tax refunding bonds and sales and use tax capital improvement bonds for various purposes.
 levying a replacement special local sales and use tax at the rate of 1% for the purpose of retiring such bonds and prescribing other matters pertaining thereto. Okie dokie. What final comments do we have, counsel? Justin. I would just say there's many reasons that this city continues to be ranked one of the top cities in the country to live. One of those reasons is what we've done here, and that is to talk, engage with each other,
 listen to one another make the decisions the best way we know how and As we move forward I'm proud to say that I was a part of the last few years And I'm very proud to say a part of this bond issue. I think it can be a success and I think This council will do a great job educating the public as they already did and have done and get people behind this and I really really really want to thank the city staff and Now it's off to the voters
 Okay, any other final comments from the council? Well, we have quite a bit of investment of time I want to thank the city staff. I want to thank the City Council of work sessions you had last Tuesday I want to thank you for your input. I want to thank the chief of staff for his work getting input from the council. I want to thank Peter Nearing Garden, Paul Becker, Kit Williams for all their work Gordon, I want to thank you all for all your work These are never easy
 I always remember something my dad always used to say. I heard this last Saturday at the Jim House celebration of life. The minister said Jim House was one of the good ones. And that's an old saying that I remember very well from the mountain area that I was raised in. My dad always used to say, son, what you always want to be is a good old good. I don't know if those of you that are old Arkansans remember that.
 And what that really means, that's really a word. It's an English word that means good people. It means it's a good person. And he said there's only one thing that you need to remember, that when you have to steel yourself to complete the task that's before you and you'll be one of the good ones, you'll be a good one. So this goes forward. And when you look up the word to steel yourself, it basically means –
 that sometimes the task is hard and it's not easy, but you have to steel yourself on the inside and know that you're gonna complete the task that you've been assigned. We have been assigned, council, the task of passing and promoting this bond to the people of this city. And I will tell you this about the citizens of this city, they always do the right thing around here. Anytime that we have needed to pass something, they have always seen the vision, they've always seen the task,
 and they've always stepped up and done what they needed to do. This bond, I know we've talked a lot about parking, but this bond also has $70 million worth of roads in it and sidewalks around the schools where children can walk safely to school. They don't have to walk in road stitches. This bond program has $6 million worth of trails in it. We have $50 million for public safety.
 where we can do things like an indoor firing range where we can build three fire stations that that protects our city that cuts the response times that saves lives and property I know that we've got three million dollars in economic development and we're going to train people in the jobs that they need to get a decent living wage to properly feed educate and clothe themselves and their children
 We're going to have $3 million more money that we are going to spend in the area of doing renovation to these buildings and supporting our energy action plan that Peter Nearing Garden is working on. And get closer. Right now we're at 76% of 100% of clean energy in this city and our city buildings. This is going to help us get there. It's also going to remodel and renovate those buildings. Thank you.
 We have $25 million in parks. And yes, the parks list can be changed. And yes, all these is coming to the council. And you all decide on the design of the arts corridor. You all will decide on the parks list at the end of the day. You'll decide what roads get built, what trails are put in, and each phase. And we have $31 million.
 for an arts corridor, $21 million. We've already talked about it's going to be for an arts corridor, my friends, and we have beat that horse to death tonight. But, I mean, it is true. It's a sensitive place where people can come and gather. It will support our arts. It will take something that keeps our water clean and the runoff, and it slows the water down and lets it recharge the aquifers in the earth. The time when we need that. We're going to protect Lewisfields.
 Well, we're going to protect loose fields. And we're not going to take the Walton Arts Center parking lot out. Not without replacement parking. I don't think I need to go through that one again. But we must steel ourselves together. This is going to set this city on course for the next 15 to 20 years. And while other cities are passing these, we have got to stay competitive and know that we're still the city of federal Arkansas. And I'll tell you, my friends, we are, I believe, the best of the best.
 We're going to pass this bond and it's going to be a beautiful thing not only for us But for our children and our children's children and with that Sondra would you please call? Yes, yes, yes, yes Thank you all I don't usually allow applause, but I think tonight I'll let you just Thank you all very much. All right moving along to a public hearing now. All right. Let's see. I
 We a resolution to affirm the raise and removal order by the city of by the City Council for the house at 171 East Meadow pursuant to Resolution 48-18 passed by the City Council on February the 6th 2018 mayor I brought this forward because at the time that I did bring it forward the owner had been pressed to try to do some repairs and needed repairs to make his house livable and
 One of the big issues there was foundation and it looked like he hadn't done anything in six months and after six months the actual building permit that he obtained would then be invalid anymore if he hadn't done any substantial work. And as you might guess, just about a week ago a contractor actually did some work out there. Now they fixed part of the foundation, not the part that was the worst,
 But our building safety officer said that he thought it was substantial enough progress that he wanted to renew the building permit and not cancel it. And so at this point in time, I'm going to ask that you table this indefinitely, this resolution indefinitely. We don't need to have a public hearing. We will continue hoping that this person that owns a house, and he lives out of state, but that owns this very small house, will move.
 Either put the money into it so it becomes habitable or allows us to go ahead and remove it. It's a nice lot, and so one way or another, we hope that there's going to be a good house on it sometime. But at this point, I'd ask you to table this indefinitely, please. Okay, I'll retain a motion to table indefinitely. John? I move that we table this resolution indefinitely. Adelaide?
 i second that motion we have a motion that's second to table indefinitely any discussion on that all right sandra would you please call the role yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all now for new business number one a resolution authorized participation by the city of feville in in the arkansas municipal league's municipal defense program i believe
 Adela, you have this one? Yes. Mayor, I'm going to pull this, not because I think it's,
 not something we should do, but we have some information that may change it to where we don't have to be a part of the Municipal League and double insure and so forth. So I will certainly be watching the future council and calling our legal department regularly to make sure that we don't...
 uh let this this die i'm very concerned about it been working on it for lots of months and so i'm hoping that it will be something that we do in our city thank you do you have any new information that you might want to share with the council
 I don't think, I think this should probably just be tabled indefinitely like the one I had before. And I have been in contact with an attorney who is actually already representing us in another class action, the one that involves the internet companies and their failure to pay all of the HMR taxes that they should be paying.
 And so he's agreed to represent us. I will bring a representation letter in the future to you all to see if you want to retain him. Just like in the other case, he would get paid, if at all, by court order from any recovery that we would be receiving, so we wouldn't have to put any money up front. Okay. So, Mayor, I move that we table the resolution. Table indefinitely? Indefinitely, yes. Do we have it?
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to table indefinitely. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, number two resolution recognizing the opioid epidemic in the United States of America and in Arkansas and to engage in litigation as a member of the municipal league defense program against those entities and people responsible for this social crisis is And I will tell
 city council member adela gray we will use a lot of those whereas clauses uh if we then decide to if the city council decides to obtain the services mr thrush and and join that same litigation mayor i do just want to say we want to thank council member gray because we do think it's important that the city of fayetteville not be left out of what is
 over 300 cities in this lawsuit and an opportunity for potential revenue if they are to win. Much like the tobacco settlement money was a very large number and we would certainly want our share in opportunity. So I think when we bring this forward in future discussions, I just wanna say thank you for raising that. And while this might not be the time and there's other opportunities, we do think it's important again, back to that revenue discussion, to not lose out on opportunities that,
 could potentially benefit the cities. Mr. Mayor, I should note that I've also talked to our police chief who is, I think, chair of the Central Emergency Medical Services Group.
 They have not joined anything yet, but he indicated that he was going to talk to his group and also be represented by Mr. Thrush. In a lot of ways, they might have more damages than we do. We have some police and fire that would respond to maybe overdoses. Well, obviously the ambulances do a lot of that too, so they'll also be protected, I think, in the future. Okay. Thank you, though. I do appreciate you.
 bringing this forward and the work that you've done on this. Thank you. Chief of Staff, thank you. I would like to pass a motion that we table this one indefinitely as well. Is that right? Yes. Justin? Second. We have a motion to second the table indefinitely. Any final comments from the council or anything? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. LaPierre? Yes. Smith? Yes. Ryan? Yes. March? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to amend Section 166.159C, Exploration of Building Permit of the Unified Development Code to require the automatic exploration of the building permit 30 days after the City Council has ordered the raise and removal of the structure. Kip? Whereas pursuant to Section 166.15 subsection C, Exploration of Building Permit,
 A building permit normally does not expire until 180 days, even if the work has not begun on the project, or until two years if work has begun but the project has not been substantially completed. And whereas the City staff is concerned about directing its contractor to raise or remove a dilapidated structure if its owner has obtained a building permit to repair and rehabilitate the building, as long as that building permit remains active and viable.
 And whereas the City Attorney, the Building Official, and the Community Resources Director recommend a code amendment to give the Building Official the authority to cancel a building permit for a building ordered by the City Council to be razed and removed, if substantial work in progress on repair and rehabilitation of the building is not accomplished within 30 days of the City Council's order of raze and removal.
 And whereas if the City Council has ordered the raise and removal of dilapidated structure, any building permit issued regarding the dilapidated structure should expire and be cancelled by the building official within 30 days of the City Council's order
 Unless substantial work has begun or been accomplished that the building official determines that all the building issues considered by the City Council when it order the building be raised or moved will be substantially repaired or remediated within a reasonably short period of time.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby enact Section 166.15 , Expiration of Building Permit of the Unified Development Code by enacting a new Subsection 3 as follows. Subsection 3, Expiration of Building Permit after City Council orders raise and removal of dilapidated structure.
 If the City Council has determined that a building is so unsafe, dilapidated, unsanitary, or in such a nuisance that its raise and removal is necessary, and orders such raise and removal pursuant to Section 173.09 of the Unified Development Code, any existing building permit shall automatically expire and be canceled by the building official within 30 days of the City Council's order of raise and removal.
 Unless the building official determines that substantial work and progress has been accomplished, that all of the safety and other problems of the building, justifying its raise and removal, have been or will soon be repaired, remediated, or resolved so that a reasonable extension of the building permit is justified.
 The building official may also issue a new building permit for structures repair and rehabilitation within 30 days of the order of raise or removal.
 But such new building permits shall be authorized only for 30 days, only for a 30-day time limit to accomplish complete repair and renovation of the structure or at least sufficient work and progress so the building official can determine that all of the safety and other problems of the building justifying its raised removal will be promptly repaired, remediated or resolved so that a reasonable extension of the building permit is justified.
 A building official may then extend either the existing or new building permit for a period of time the building official deemed sufficient to complete the repair, rehabilitation, and remediation of the building. I worked on this with our community services personnel and the building safety official because of the case that we just had that we had to table indefinitely. We don't want to raise a building if the owner has a permit to fix it.
 Because he might fix it. That's what we always want. We always would rather have the building repaired and fixed. But there was no way at that point in time to invalidate a building permit until six months had gone by.
 And so at this point in time, we saw the problem based on this particular issue, and I worked with them and Yolanda Fields of Community Services and our building safety officer, Matthew Cabe, both agreed that this was good language. I worked it over with them, and so I recommend it to you so that we can avoid this kind of
 Forever time waiting to get a building raised and removed with just vacant Proposals that don't ever seem to come to work out mayor. I just want to add on to one on think kit for working with Yolanda and her team and Matthew cave and his team. This is a very common problem That we get from citizens who don't understand why it takes the city so long to resolve issues if you look at this whole
 It's been over a year since the city did raise and removal with just these building permit extensions that might do a little bit of work to keep it going. It gets to the end of the permit, might do a little bit more to keep it going. And so we sometimes have bad actors using our current code.
 that doesn't allow us to get the corrections that we need made. So while we tend to defer because we are such a strong property rights state and city, we also want to make sure that other people comply with the building code requirements and the safety of buildings and their access. So this helps us speed up situations where surrounding citizens who are adjacent or in these neighborhoods feel like the city is not doing
 or something aggressive enough to handle the situation. And this gives us the opportunity to address it when someone's just doing minimal improvements and yet not solving the problem. What questions do we have in the council? We haven't had a public comment on this. I'm bringing it back to the council. It's wishes to the council. Del? I move we go to the second reading. John? Second the motion. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. So I'm going to please call the roll.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes and notice from in section 166 point 1 5 C expiration of building permit of the Unified Development Code require the automatic expiration of a building permit 30 days after the City Council has ordered the raise and removal of the structure I move we suspend Rose and go to the third
 I second the motion, Mayor. We have a motion and a – if you could get your name in there, John. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 And nor did it amend section 166.15C, expiration of building permit of the Unified Development Code to require the automatic expiration of a building permit 30 days after the City Council has ordered the raise and removal of the structure. Any final comments from the Council?
 Mayor, I have one comment. We want to thank Yolanda Fields and her team for her persistence on addressing this issue. She constantly has her team get beat up because we may not be moving fast enough while they are doing everything in their power to do it, and this gives them a tool that they've not had. And so thank you, Yolanda, for your work. Yes, I couldn't agree more. All right, any other comments? Saundra, would you please go, Roe? Fetch. Yes. Secure. Yes. Math. Yes. Write. Yes.
 Yes Preliminary site analysis of a downtown parking deck and to approve a budget adjustment I
 Yes. Thank you, Mayor, Council. So the purpose of this site selection analysis with Garver Engineering is to evaluate up to five locations within the entertainment district for the construction of a parking facility to replace the anticipated parking from the Walton Arts Center West Avenue parking lot, resulting from the Civic Plaza construction associated with the Cultural Arts Corridor project.
 This analysis is the first step in determining potential locations for that replacement parking and the number of parking spaces that a given location could accommodate. As part of the parking configuration analysis, the ability to incorporate liner spaces into each parking structure will be evaluated at each location.
 And a summary of Garver's findings will be submitted no later than 45 days from the start date to further guide the final decision-making and where this parking facility can go. Okay, what questions do we have for Justin on this? I guess I have one question. Are they going to look at sites only to hold the entire potential 290 spaces, or are they looking at potentially –
 Once a couple couple decks or something like that sure yeah, everything's on the table at this point so they can consider multiple locations Will they also be looking at the potential for liner buildings? Yes I
 Hi, good evening Teresa Turk 1408 West Cleveland I would just this is you know, we've had a lot of discussions about parking I would really ask the council to not go to a final reading on this issue this week, but to hold off On the second reading the first reading or Well Okay, then I would I would argue that I believe this is premature and
 We really need to see if the voters are going to pass the bond issue specifically to the cultural arts corridor. And I really think that this is $20,000 that could be held off until after we get a decision in April about whether they pass, what is it, question number seven, whichever the cultural arts corridor. Question eight, let's not make it.
 Let's not hurt question seven. Okay, question eight. Sorry. Thank you for correcting me, Kit. I don't have my notes here in front of me. So that's what I would argue, ask for you to do tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Bring it back to the council. Matt. Yes, Mayor. Thank you.
 Well, respectfully, I think this is important to do before the April vote because this is the kind of information that is going to help us sell the bond issue and talk about the bond issue and the feasibility of everything else we talked about tonight.
 You know, $20,000 can seem like a lot to a lot of people in terms of the way we budget. I don't think this technically even needed to come to the council because it's under the threshold for what we allow the mayor and the staff to do. I appreciate that it came, and there's an opportunity to talk about the fact that we're doing this in public, but I do support it. Okay. Thank you, Matthew. Who else? Okay. Okay.
 And so, Adele? Well, I also think it's very important that we get on with this. And so I would motion to pass the resolution. Kyle? Whether this arts corridor passes or not, I think that this information will be valuable for planning parking downtown regardless. So I will second the motion. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? No.
 All right. Somebody would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Legere. Yes. Ray. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Dennis. Yes. And number five, a resolution to approve amendment number 10 to the agreement for operations, maintenance, and management services between the city of Federal Arkansas and CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $6,981,332 for services in 2019. Mark.
 good evening mayor and council mark rogers water and sewer operations manager city administration recommends approval of amendment number 10 to the agreement with ch2m hill engineers which is also known as jacobs engineering beginning january 1st 2019 and ending december 31st 2019 in the amount of six million nine hundred eighty one thousand three hundred thirty two dollars
 In fiscal year 2019, the scope of services provided by CH2M Hill and or Jacobs include, number one, operate and maintain the Noland Westside wastewater treatment plants. Number two, operate and maintain 38 wastewater pump station sites. Number three, administer the city's NPDES discharge, air, stormwater, and other permits. Number four, manage the city's biosolids disposal program.
 Number five manage the city's industrial pretreatment program number six support the SCADA Which is supervisory control and data acquisition system network that? monitor water and wastewater facilities number seven pursue operation economies efficiencies and permit compliance and number eight refurbish one of ten sand filters and
 In December 2009, the Fayetteville City Council passed resolution number 265-09, which approved a proposed five-year contract subject to and contingent upon yearly budget approval by the City of Fayetteville with two successive five-year options to renew. Amendment number 10 represents the fifth and final year of the first five-year renewal.
 For 2019, the electricity costs have been removed from the contract, which is why there's a decrease in the contract price from the 2018 contract amount. Electricity expenses will be paid directly by the city. This has been to the Water and Sewer Committee and was approved to move forward to the council. What was the vote there? Was it NMS or DMS?
 I don't recall I know I don't recall us actually taking a vote on it. I know that we talked about it several times. We were not able to have our last meeting because of the work session. But it is a renewal of the fifth of a five year agreement. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Okay. And everyone seemed amenable in discussions.
 comment on Jacobs. You know, they're a 30 plus year partner with the city, been running our wastewater treatment facilities and each year have proven to be valuable, both in new technologies and things that make us better improve to help us hold our water and sewer rates down for our rate payers.
 They were also very helpful in permitting and regulatory requirements and the resources they bring to the table. And when we went through this RFP process many years ago, we did a very extensive search visiting sites all around the U.S. Various providers, they proved to be the winner at that time and their performance each year has continued to validate that selection process. So we're extremely happy with this partnership and we have a long standing relationship with
 successful relationship thanks to their work. So they also have been very supportive in our movement towards our solar project.
 And while we're removing that electricity component out, we still challenge them, and we will be challenging them. In January and February was an upcoming meeting about how we can be more sustainable as a water and sewer operations, and we'll look forward to that meeting as we move forward with how to be even better at what we do. But the staff is wholeheartedly in support of this renewal. Thank you.
 Any questions from the council? Is there any public comment? I'm going to bring it back to the council. John. I move we pass the resolution. Adele. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. LaTierre. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kennedy. Yes. Smith. Yes. Okay.
 Thank you all. Number six, in order to sway the requirements for bidding during 2019 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the transportation division, but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes. Terry. Whereas the crude oil market continues to experience extreme price volatility,
 whereas this volatility has greatly affected the price of asphalt making normal competitive bidding procedures unworkable impractical and not feasible and whereas the transportation division proposes to solicit and accept bids on a quarterly basis without the need for further approval of the City Council through the calendar year of 2019 now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds that such circumstances constitute an exceptional situation where annual competitive bidding is not feasible or practical, and therefore, through calendar year 2019, lays the requirements of formal competitive bidding for the purchase of asphalt materials and authorizes the Transportation Division to solicit informal bids or quotes on a quarterly basis without the need for further approval of the City Council.
 Okay, Terry. Yes, good evening, Mayor, Council. This is our last bulk material bid. We do this this way due to our bidders are not comfortable with volatile oil prices that they will give us a one-year bid. So what we do is break this down in quarters. It works good for us as oil prices like fell today. They potentially could lead to lower prices if it occurs somewhere near the bidding time. And then we'll go ahead and get the bid done. So I'm going to go ahead and get the bid done. And then I'll go ahead and get the bid done. And then I'll go ahead and get the bid done. And then I'll go ahead and get the bid done. And then I'll go ahead and get the bid done. And then I'll go ahead and get the bid done. And then I'll go ahead and get the bid done. And then I'll go ahead
 So it gives us the opportunity to potentially go down and also affords them some protection if there was a large increase in oil prices. So we just ask for a bid waiver on this so that we continue. We've done this process the same way for probably the last 10 years at least. So that's it in a nutshell. Okay. What questions do we have from the council criteria on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay.
 Okay, I'll bring back to the council yeah, I'm a we pass the resolution The ordinance I was moving to the second reading yes There you go I second that motion mayor motion is second to go to the second reading Okay, so would you please go to wrong you cut him off Yes
 yes ma'am yes yes yes yes yes yes and ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding during 2019 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the transportation division but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes all right and so john move we spend the rules and go third meeting yes second we have a motion in second to go to third and final reading
 Okay. Son, would you please call the roll? Butch. Yes. Burke. Yes. Smith. Yes. Wright. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding during 2019 for the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the Transportation Division, but to require informal quarterly bids or quotes,
 And before you vote, I want to thank Terry Gulley and his division for thinking outside the box several years ago so that we could take advantage of a much better price because if we don't do this, the suppliers are going to have to think what's the price going to be in nine months. And so we're not going to get the low prices we could get for just a quarter. So I think he saved the city many thousands of dollars with this, and I think I just appreciate him thinking outside the box. Okay.
 all right any other comments from the council all right so would you please call the road yes yes
 yes yes okay number seven an ordinance wave requirements form competitive bidding and approval one-year contract motorola solutions incorporated any amount 102 597.12 plus taxes with automatic deals for four additional years for maintenance of the city's motorola simulcast radio system whereas the city's motorola simulcast radio project was completed in 2012
 And whereas Motorola Solutions Incorporated provides factory authorized training, field technical representation services, and other technical support to provide maintenance on the Motorola simulcast system, and has provided these services since 2012.
 And whereas due to the complexity of the system and Motor Roller Solutions Inc's unique knowledge of the technical aspects of the system and how it connects to the Arkansas wireless network, it is necessary for them to continue providing the necessary maintenance for the system. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the City of Fayetteville Arkansas Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a one-year contract with Motorola Solutions Incorporated in the amount of $102,597.12 plus applicable taxes per year with automatic renewals of four additional years for maintenance of the City's Motorola simulcast radio system.
 Okay, Chief. I think Kit about said it all. This is just a continuation of a contract we've had with Motorola for years and years and years. It's not just police radios. It's about somewhere around 700 radios citywide. And like I said, we've had this for years. And obviously Motorola, it's a Motorola system statewide, and Motorola is the only people that can work on that system. So that's why the bid waiver. Okay. What questions do we have for the Chief on this? Are there good? All right. Any public comment on this?
 bring back to the council John yes yes yes yes yes
 In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with Motorola Solutions Incorporated in the amount of $102,597.12 plus applicable taxes with automatic renewals for four additional years for maintenance of the city's Motorola simulcast radio system. And so, Della. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. John. Second the motion, Mayor. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with Motorola Solutions Incorporated in the amount of a hundred two thousand five hundred ninety seven dollars and twelve cents plus Apple taxes with Automatic renewals for four additional years for maintenance of the city's Motorola simulcast radio system Any final comments from council? Okay So under would you please call the roll?
 Batch. Yes. Latour. Yes. Gray. Yes. Kenyon. Sorry, Marsh. Yes. Yes. Janet. Here. He was just testing you, Sarah.
 Okay, thank you all. Number eight. In order to sway the requirements for formal competitive bidding and authorize contract with RJR Enterprises Incorporated in the amount of $28,633.14 for the purchase and installation of repair tiles for playgrounds, Bryce Davis, Sweetbriar, and David Lashley Parks, and to approve the project contingency in the amount of $3,000. Kip.
 Whereas RJR Enterprises Incorporated installed the playground equipment at Bryce Davis, Sweetbuyer, and David Lashley Parks, all of which experienced playground surface failure within a few years of installation. And whereas RJR Enterprises had worked out an arrangement with Soft Surface, the manufacturer of the playground tiles, and proposes to replace or repair the existing tiles utilizing an improved installation procedure at a discounted price.
 and whereas soft surface tiles must be purchased to ensure compatibility with the existing soft surface tiles, and the repair work requires certification by the manufacturer which RJR Enterprises Incorporated has received. Now therefore, be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby determines that the facts shown above establish that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes a contract with RJR Enterprises Inc. in the amount of $28,633.14
 for the purchase and installation of repair tiles for playgrounds at Bryce Davis, Sweetbriar, and David Lashley Parks, and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $3,000. Mayor and Council, this project will repair the playgrounds at Bryce Davis, Sweetbriar, and David Lashley Parks by removing and reinstalling the existing tile, and with the ordinance allowing us to waive competitive bidding, we can use the...
 the installer that installed the playground tile originally with the product manufacturer that has a unique method we can do this project for twenty eight thousand dollars whereas if we totally rebuilt and put new tile down it would be over 150 000 so what questions do we have in the council okay do we have any public comment on this i'm going to bring it back to the council and so
 Yes, Della. I move that we go to the second reading. I have a motion to go to the second reading. Do I have a second? Justin. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Butch. Yes. Yes. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 In order to sway the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a contract with RJR Enterprises Incorporated in the amount of $28,633.14 for the purchase and installation of repair tiles for playgrounds at Bryce Davis, Sweetbriar, and David Lashley Parks, and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,000. And so...
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch. Yes. Lutero. Yes. Smith. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes.
 Adjourn us to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a contract with RJR Enterprises, Inc. in the amount of $28,633.14 for the purchase and installation of repair tiles for playgrounds at Bryce Davis, Sweetbriar, and David Lashley Parks and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,000. Any final comments from the council? Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Batch? Yes. LaGerre? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Yes. Okay, number nine. An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 18-6441 for approximately 36.62 acres located southeast of 54th Avenue and Persimmon Street from RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre to RA residential agricultural.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre, to RA, residential agricultural.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville We're elect to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Own facility solar generating facility
 Fayetteville has a long standing tradition of following its own zoning and development rules, so my staff report is accordingly. It is, I'll just quickly go through it. The proposal is to rezone from RSF 8 to RA.
 and it is completely surrounded on three sides by RA zoning presently, and it's RSF1 across the street to the west. A broader perspective of this site, the proposed solar generating facility will be located in two spots outlined in orange.
 There is a proposal to make a conservation area out of the area outlined in red. And if you've been out to the site, you'll notice mature trees on that parcel. There are no mature trees or any trees of significance on the other two parcels. And the rest of the site plan just shows expansion areas in blue. We're saving the historic farmstead in the pink area.
 And a working farm is preserved on the south end of the site. The adopted plans is designated as civic institutional area, so this is in conformance with it. And the proposed zoning permits the use. The use is public protection and utility facilities. The RA district allows it. The RSF8 doesn't. I don't think there are any big issues.
 It's very compatible with the surrounding uses and zoning as you saw. So planning and commission staff recommend approval and I'd be happy to answer any question and the applicant is in the audience.
 Would the African stand up? Yeah. I'll just add, I think Garner's staff report pretty well covered it. Of course, this rezoning is necessary to execute on the solar agreement.
 That you all approved last month It's a really exciting project for the city of Fayetteville and the solar at the west side Wastewater treatment plant in my mind is particularly exciting The opportunities that it can provide in terms of eco tourism for our city its location near Owl Creek Elementary Which is located just to the east from an educational perspective having the wet prairie
 Um the the relic farm and the solar along with the wastewater facility all in one site in my mind really creates An opportunity for fayville and an investment in an area That can provide just a myriad of different benefits for the city So we're really excited about it. And if you do have any questions, i'm more than glad to answer them for you What questions do we have for peter on this?
 Our guard. I've got one. Yeah, I'm sorry, Todd. So I agree. I'm enthusiastic about this and ready to get it going. But I do notice that we've got a misalignment of persimmon over there. And I think you made a couple of passing references to considerations to fix that. But as the Master Street Plan slide flipped by, I was looking at that. What is the –
 what are we talking about there at the corner i'd be happy to address that thanks when the developer uh asked requested rezoning to rsf aid they wish to instead of building an expensive collector street on the northern boundary they requested a realignment of that collector street
 so they could build it to serve their residential development. So it went through the middle. Our view is that the collector now would best be located on Persimmon.
 So right under the WWTP site plan block there is the next branch of Persimmon that continues out west through several neighborhoods. And I think it occasionally gets chastised for being a drag race. And it's very narrow here. It does need to be reconstructed. Is there – right now the existing part is –
 To the north by several feet there is there room here in the in the corner where the red is cut out to To make those line up in the future. Yes, there is it would it would align approximately in this route Okay, thank you any questions from the council public comment on this John mayor I move that we suspend the rules go second reading second motion second to go the second rate I
 Sonny would you please call the vote? Batch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Stanton? Yes. Gray? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In Ordinance to Rezone that Property, Described and Rezoning Petition RZN 18-6441 for Approximately 36.62 Acres, Located Southeast of 54th Avenue and Persimmons Street from RSF 8 Residential Single Family 8 Units per Acre to RA Residential Agricultural.
 Oh, motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. John. Second the motion, Mayor. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. Yes. Smith. Yes. Ryan. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. And the ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6441 for property 36.62 acres located southeast of 54th Avenue and Persimmon Street from RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre to RA residential agricultural. Okay. Any final comments from the council on this? Nice work. Good project. Of course you know that. Thank you.
 Senator, would you please call the roll? That? Yes. The chair? Yes. Yes. Ray? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number 10. In order to approve vacation 18-6433 properly located at 839 North Gregg Avenue to vacate a portion of the utility's kit. Okay.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of the utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo,
 Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense.
 Yes, Mayor, this easement vacation is west of Greg Avenue, just north of Cleburne. It's actually a 20-foot utility easement. They're requesting a six-foot of it to be vacated to allow for a continuation of the development that is happening to the north. We identified no issues. None of the responding agencies needed this easement.
 planning commission staff recommend approval with standard standard conditions okay do you have any questions regarding on this okay we have any public comment on this can't bring back to the council which the wishes the council second motion second to go to the second please call
 Batch? Yes. Latere? Yes. Smith? Yes. Wright? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. An ordinance approved VAC 18-6433 for property located at 839 North Gregg Avenue to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adela? I second that motion. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. LeChair? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 18-6433 for a property located at 839 North Gregg Avenue to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Any final comments from the council? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all number 11 in order to amend ordinance number 50 15 which
 which enacted residential plan zone district 07-2452, the links to allow multifamily units to be constructed in planning areas 1 and 6, which were previously approved for commercial and townhome uses. As on May 15, 2007, the Fayetteville City Council passed Ordinance 5015, which created RPCD 07-2452, the links –
 and whereas amendments to RPCD 07-2452 were previously approved by Ordinance Numbers 5742 and 5912, and whereas the owner of the links now requests permission to add provisions into RPCD 07-2452 to authorize the construction of multifamily units in Planning Areas 1 and 6 in addition to the commercial and townhome uses previously approved.
 Now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby approves the owner's request to amend Residential Plan Zoning District 07-2452 the links to authorize the construction of multi-family units in Planning Areas 1 and 4 totaling approximately 7.9 acres in addition to the commercial and townhouse uses previously approved. All other terms and conditions remain in full force and effect.
 Okay. Yeah, this planned zoning district is located north of Weddington Drive and east of Ruppel Road. It is nearing build out. It is generally multifamily units surrounded by a golf course. The subject seven acres is located along Ruppel Road.
 The original bird's eye view of the development basically showed some commercial buildings on the southern part of this seven acre parcel and town homes on the residential district immediately north of it. The proposal is to allow in addition to those uses,
 use group 26 which is multi-family construction roughly in the configuration on this draw the elevations conceptual elevations provide for four-sided architecture three three-story buildings the plan zoning district process as for conceptual
 These don't have to exactly be replicated. There's some room. In fact, if all of these buildings were these particular elevations, they wouldn't meet our residential design standards. So they will need to be varied. The adopted plans, it's in the Weddington Quarter Plan.
 growth concept map which actually designates the intersection of weddington and rupal as a possible mixed use center in the future the weddington plan basically shows the parking in the buildings in the configuration that is proposed for the multi-family buildings but the building size and typology varies quite a bit and it's kind of repetitive in the proposal
 The issues debated at the Planning Commission were should this area be retained for commercial development? It's, I guess, about 11 years since this land was for sale and the applicant can address their efforts to develop it commercially and additional access to Rupert Road to break up that long block.
 So the Planning Commission on a split vote recommended approval with the conditions that get read from the original PZD. They also requested additional vehicle access somewhere between onto Rupert Road, break up that long block,
 And I've talked to the applicant's representative today, and they're willing to do that, and they have some ideas about how they could do that without damaging the tree easement that is dedicated. Also, the buildings must be orientated towards the street. The design standards would require that anyway. So with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Mr. Zapp, in here.
 My name is Hugh Jarrett. I'm here with the applicant. That particular piece of property has been sitting there since Mary Jordan was sitting over there. Indeed it was. I think...
 Miss Gray, Mayor Jordan, and Kit and I are about the only ones that were, and Miss Smith, that were here back in the original times. You've said more. Would you finish your project, Hugh? We've been waiting a long time. We've been trying. To Mr. Stahl's point, that property's been for sale the entire time. We've actively tried to market the commercial property, and it just has not worked. The original project,
 Design this is a big project. It's 153 acres total and we had kind of multiple different pods in there We had the original phase which had four-story buildings and two-story buildings that's done Well, we have the downtown core which is a completely different type of building. It has done Well, we had the second phase which is more to the north. That's more recent It has more two and three story buildings. It has bigger buildings. That's done. Well, I
 We came in and did the single-family houses north of Golf Club Drive. Those are doing okay, but those are not what you would call a runaway. This portion of the property is really called for townhomes and then commercial. We've been trying to sell the commercial the entire time we've owned the property, and it just has not worked. Then the townhome product...
 We can't build that really any cheaper than we can the single-family houses. And the rent for that is going to be roughly, it's going to be a $1,400 a month product.
 There is a bunch of $1,400 a month product that has been added to the city of Fayetteville in the last several years. Both of the properties, you know, one by Razorback, the one behind Target, that kind of stuff that's come in is a higher price point than a lot of people can afford. Here, what the elevation, I really wish
 We got into the Weddington plan. The Weddington plan caused the buildings to be oriented toward the road, be more walkable. So we showed a real rough site plan of those buildings along Ruple, and I wish we shouldn't have. That is not how the thing is going to be oriented. We have agreed to do the connection in the middle. There are two tree preservation easements that will be left that will break that up, and then we'll,
 Go even further than the multifamily design standards. We're willing to say that no more than two facades Along Rupel will be the same we're gonna have a different orientation going up Rupel We heard the Planning Commission loud and clear and wanted to address that point the the building elevation that we that we've shown is actually building that we're very very proud of the the the
 sent in the actual floor plans they weren't included but that building that we're working on now is
 will be the flagship of a livable apartment. Every unit will have a balcony. It will have enclosed entryways. It will be able to be pushed right up to the sidewalk that the Weddington Corridor Plan calls for. People can get on the sidewalk, run down to, I know there's restaurants and coffee shops at the intersection of Weddington and Ripple. There's drugstores. It will be a different type program
 product than we have out there. And I think that kind of fits within what we envisioned on the 153 acres having multiple different different types of
 housing inside the whole the whole project and and this will allow us to do that and it'll allow us to charge rents that You know people who live and work in Fayetteville can can afford it will be a affordable attainable price point less than some of the more recent product that we've that is that we've seen so um
 Believe I've dressed the points that have come up if there are any questions whatsoever. I'd be happy to to address them and We're just happy to grow with the city of Fayetteville Just hoping you can detail for us a little more about your efforts to sell the commercial property and I know I
 For the 11 years that it's been there, I've been driving by and never seen a sign on the property. And that may not be the primary way you market commercial, but I think folks in the neighborhood could be forgiven for never realizing that it was available. Well, the primary owner of this property also owns a commercial real estate firm. This property has been, Mr. Lindsay has never ever liked to put a sign on his property.
 any of, when I say Mr. Lindsay, I'm saying Jim. If you look at Jim's property, very rarely will you see an actual for sale sign on it. A lot of commercial developments come through, talk to his brokers, his brokers have a personal relationship and it can move that way. This thing has actively been shown for 11 years. I can personally state to that, there have been,
 The was the chicken and the chicken and pickle camp company there have been assisted living centers There have been dollar generals there have been every type of different use has been shown this property and we have not gotten a bite It's just one of those deals where it is far enough Removed from the commercial corridor that the commercial use just has not worked there the commercial work use worked up on Weddington where the slim chickens is that was originally part of this and
 This this is just removed enough that the commercial use is not it has not been Involved it's just one of those things at some sites. It doesn't doesn't work Yes, it's just the visibility the traffic It's just it's a one-off one-off site and we hadn't been able to sell it but it has actively been
 marketed for 11 years Again we have probably not the fact that the the the the
 Boulevard and the median is there does not help cross traffic the fact that it is one off of where the commercial You know commercial likes to be around other commercial. So it is just a little bit north of the other activity and You know that we are not this does not preclude Commercial use this is just an additional use unit in that area if somebody comes in tomorrow and says hey We would like to buy that corner. I assure you they'll sell it but the
 We in 11 years we hadn't had an offer It would be this would line up for a construction superintendent that has not even started a project yet, so we're talking Unless something changes in the construction world it can all change But this we're talking two to three years before we have a person here Thank You mr. Mayor
 I just want to point out to the council, this is a perfect example of the market working. These people are involved in the marketplace day in and day out. We dabble in it. We sit in our sterile seats up here, and we try to determine the best use for land. I think we should always defer to someone who's in it every day, as long as it's compatible with our zoning grids in the area. And I applaud your efforts to take a risk and come in and develop land. Thank you for investing in our city. Sir, thank you.
 Any other questions for the staff? All right. All right. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. John. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Justin. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sonja, would you please call the roll? Batch. Yes. Latere. Yes. Mann. No. Yes. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Yes.
 I think that is five votes yes, so it takes six votes to suspend the rules to go to the second reading, Mayor. I'll vote yes. In order to amend Ordinance Number 5015, which enacted Residential Plan Zoning District 7-2452, the links, to allow multifamily units to be constructed in Planning Areas 1 and 6, which were previously approved for commercial and townhome uses. Done. Move that they suspend the rules again and go to the third and final reading. Okay.
 Adele I second that motion motion and second ago third Yes, yes, no, yes, yes Yes again, there are five yes votes to no votes yes, yes
 It passes. An ordinance to amend ordinance number 5015, which enacted residential plan zoning district 7-2452, the links to allow multifamily units to be constructed in planning areas 1 and 6, which were previously approved for commercial and townhome uses. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Yes. I can read the writing on the wall on this, but I just want to get my piece on here.
 i suspect most folks who pay attention to me would be surprised that i've got reservations about housing higher density housing generally i think it's what we need and i'd be supportive of it but at some point we have to make room for the things that people need to do as well and i worry that as we pack in housing wall to wall without leaving gaps for other development that we um
 We create the sprawl we talk about. We send people driving back into the middle of town for everything. If we don't have some destinations out in the population centers, we just get more of the traffic we like to complain about all the time. So I wasn't sure whether I was voting for or against the ordinance itself. I wanted a little more time to think about it.
 That's what's on my mind. So I'm gonna sit here and think with a couple of seconds. I got left Yes, yes, no, yes Yes Yes Okay, five to two. All right. Thank you all number 12 and orders vacate an existing tree preservation easement in
 on the federal public library property and replace it with a new tree preservation easement on the federal public library property that is more than twice as large. Whereas in order to expand the Fayetteville public library as approved by the Fayetteville voters an existing tree preservation easement containing about 3,083 square feet
 needs to be vacated and replaced by a new tree preservation easement with that contains about 7566 square feet as another location on the Fayetteville Public Library's property and whereas the city's urban forestry division has worked with the developer to substitute the new tree preservation easement for the old one that needs to be vacated and recommends this tree preservation easement vacation now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and
 that the city council of the city of favela arkansas hereby vacates and abandoned the tree preservation easement of about 3083 square feet shown on exhibit a of the urban forestries agenda memo upon the proper dedication by the fable public library of a replacement tree preservation easement of about 7566 square feet as shown on the exhibit within the agenda packet
 Okay, John. Good evening, Mayor and Council. The design and engineering group representing the Fayetteville Public Library expansion project would like to vacate an existing tree preservation easement located on the southwest corner of the library, or to the southwest of the library. There are two other tree preservation easements on site that will remain. The easement that is being requested to vacate is 3,083 square feet. It contains two significant post oaks,
 two large hackberry trees and two dead trees. To offset the vacation of the current tree preservation easement, a new 15,534 square foot tree preservation easement is being proposed. The item states that the proposed easement is 7,566 square feet. However, that information is incorrect. It is 15,534 square feet.
 And this also includes newly planted trees throughout the site, 30 extra trees that were not required.
 In summary, the request to vacate the 3,083 square feet easement and to replace it with the 15,534 square foot easement and include 30 additional trees on the overall landscape for the new library expansion. Staff is recommending support of the proposed tree preservation easement vacation with the addition of the new larger tree preservation easement. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have.
 What questions do we have for John on this? Good, okay. What public comment do we have on this? Hello, my name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Bradstreet. Mayor, council, this evening I stand before you in my appointed role as a member of the Urban Forestry Advisory Board. In our last meeting on 12-12, we passed this recommendation on to the city council by a vote of six to zero.
 We, the members of the Urban Forestry Advisory Board, are in favor of the library and its expansion. However, the abandonment of tree preservation areas is not favorable, especially since City Code 167 talks about tree preservation as a higher ideal to tree replacement. Mayor Jordan, as an aside, I have gone through all the old previous minutes from when the tree protection ordinance was passed way back in 1993. This is something that has been voiced by councils in debates on what would become ordinances
 3,699, 3,901, 3,936, 4,099, and 5,424. Councils that include you and City Attorney Kit Williams back when you two were council members. We have moved towards tree replacement opposed to tree preservation in many areas of development within the city, both privately and publicly.
 We appreciate that the new tree preservation area is approximately five times as large, but those trees will take 10 years to achieve environmental services and decades to achieve the significance of the trees in the current tree preservation area. We need to make sure we are putting a focus on preserving mature canopy in our city and that future buildings are designed from the beginning to preserve our mature canopy and not as an afterthought.
 If the city abandons tree preservation easements in the future, we should focus on a like for like or a like for better quality of large and mature trees and or rare significant trees and not significant trees for saplings. To reiterate, UFAB is in favor of the library and its expansion, but in the future, we must pay better attention to environmental design concerns, especially tree preservation easements from the beginning all the way through the end of projects. As the people of Fayetteville have shown time and time again, it is very important to them.
 Thinking about this recommendation now and devising solutions for subsequent projects, especially municipal projects, will guarantee that we have mature and significant trees available for our future, our children and our children's children, reduce environmental impacts, and we won't work ourselves into avoidable design cul-de-sacs that are exorbitantly expensive to fix or have decades-long environmental impacts that shouldn't have happened in the first place. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Yes.
 Okay, I'm going to write back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? As you mentioned, I was on the first council that adopted the tree ordinance, and I also have seen many of the changes in the tree ordinance, and it's always been that preservation is the number one priority if you can do it, but sometimes in a reasonable fashion you just really can't do it. You can't make the project work without it.
 And so when that happens, there are four other things that can be done. You can plant mitigation trees on site, like what's going to happen here, create new tree preservation ordinances there. You can even do off-forestation. And then you can pay into the tree plan.
 What they did, what they chose to do here by going on site is the second priority, not the first one. The first would be preserving it if you can, but it is the second priority out of the five. And when you get an area that's four times as large, then that's a pretty substantial increase in the tree preservation area, and I surely don't think it's against the spirit of the tree preservation ordinance. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 This is to offer options for developers to come in and just like it's referring to Preservation is our first priority, but some projects it just won't work. It's just not practical It's not reasonable so we offer the code offers other alternatives to preservation Where you can pay into the trust fund you can plant other trees to mitigate the trees that you're losing This is the flexibility we need
 In shoes, as in law, one size fits all seldom works. Okay? So keep the laws of developers flexible enough for them to make the best decisions they can for their business models. And I applaud the tree ordinance to that extent, that it does offer alternatives to meet the obligations of tree ordinance. So I appreciate that. Thank you. Okay.
 What other? Okay. I will note we need to do an amendment to this ordinance, and I would ask staff that they should review their agenda items when they've been printed out, and we should have probably heard about this no later than the agenda session rather than the city council meeting. But at this point, we have it at the city council meeting, so the title needs to be amended where it says that is more appropriate
 more than twice as large, I'd say more than four times as large up there. And then in the two places where it says 7,506 feet, square feet, excuse me, that should read 15,534 square feet. So 7,566 to 15,534, are those the correct numbers? Correct. Okay, so we need to amend it like that if somebody would make that motion.
 Okay. John. So moved, Mayor. Justin. Second. Motion is second to amend to your recommendations of the tree preservation, correct? Yes. From what was it, the 15,000? Yeah, it went from 7,566 to 15,534, which is more than four times as big as the one that is being sought to be vacated. Okay. All right. Any discussion on that? All right.
 please call the roll yes yes yes yes okay and so Matthew say that though you can do it in a second
 Is that your second? Yes, I second it. All right. I'm just saying go to the second room. Sandra, please call the vote. Batch? Yes. Leter? Yes. Ed? Yes.
 Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Teddy. Yes. Kenneth. Yes. In order to vacate an existing tree preservation easement on the Fayetteville Public Library property and to replace it with a new tree preservation easement on the Fayetteville Public Library property that is more than four times as large. Okay. Adela. Motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Okay. We have a second. Second.
 Second. All right. We have a motion and second. We'll go to the third and final reading. Senators, please call the roll. Batch. Yes. Birch. Yes. Smith. Yes. Brent. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes.
 And ordinance of a Kate and existing tree preservation ordinance easement on the Fayetteville Public Library Property and replace it with a new tree preservation easement on Fayetteville Public Library property that is more than twice four times as large Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes
 All right. Thank you, council, very much. For 13, an ordinance awaits requirements for bidding an authorized contract for educational entertainment and administrative services in 2019 to the Walton Arts Center Council Incorporated in the amount of $250,000. Whereas the Walton Arts Center Council Incorporated was jointly created by the City of Fayetteville and the University of Arkansas to bring cultural arts and entertainment to our citizens.
 And whereas the Walton Arts Center has long provided excellent cultural and fine arts performances and presentations for the university staff and students, and for the citizens of Fayetteville and the surrounding region,
 and whereas the Walton Arts Center on Dixon Street in Fayetteville is uniquely situated and capable of providing unmatched arts education and cultural arts experiences and entertainment to Fayetteville citizens and whereas the City of Fayetteville desires to purchase such educational entertainment services from the Walton Arts Center on Dixon Street due to be delivered at a reduced or no cost to Fayetteville citizens during 2019. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section one
 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby determines that the unique experience capability and expertise of the walton arts center provides superior cultural and fine arts education and entertainment at reduced or no cost to fable citizens and provide space and administrative help for fable citizen artists makes formal competitive bidding not feasible or practical
 and therefore waives requirements for competitive bidding for those services and for an approves an educational entertainment and administrative services contract with the Walton Arts Center incorporated for 2019 in the total amount of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars and authorizes Mayor Jordan execute the contract attached to this ordinance and made a party of I
 Thank you, Mayor. Since 2010, the City Council has allocated $250,000 of parking revenues to the Walton Arts Center for arts education services, discounted space, and administrative services for local arts organizations, and discounted free tickets for art festivals and visual art exhibits. During the 2019 budget discussions, the City Council amended the budget to retitle the earmarked revenue for the Walton Arts Center
 to arts programming funding and directed the mayor to develop an arts grant program and identify additional potential funding sources for these types of arts and educational services going forward.
 Since multiple arts organizations could now or in the future conceivably provide such services, the council wanted to see a competitive process for the distribution of funds and to evaluate if a more appropriate funding source exists rather than continually committing parking revenues to this item.
 So this contract represents the first step of those changes, reflecting the wishes of a majority of the council during those budget discussions to honor its current commitment to fund these services for the last two quarters of the Walton Arts Center's current 2019 fiscal year, which ends June 30, 2019, and the first two quarters of Walton Arts Center fiscal year 2020, which coincides with the city's final.
 fiscal year ending December 31st, 2019.
 Funding this through the end of 2019 also provides Walton Art Center with advance notice to plan for future Operational funding as the city's 2020 budget will be prepared with the intention that future funding for these types of services will be competitively bid Pursuant to the city's procurement policies and funding authorization will continue to be contingent on the existence of sufficient park excess parking revenues or the identification of new funding sources and budget approval of the City Council a
 Okay, what questions do we have? Mayor, I might just add before the council's discussion that we have met personally with the Walton Arts Center Executive Director and informed him of this council change in your last budget session so that in the 2020 year, you would be moving to your grant funding program. We have any questions for, any public comment? Okay, bring it back to the council. Justin. Move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 We have a second. Adela. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the second rate. Sandra would you please call the roll. Thatch. Yes. LeTour. Yes. Smith. Yes. Wright. Yes. Marsh.
 And in order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize a contract for educational, entertainment, and administrative services in 2019 to the Walton Arts Center Council Incorporated in the amount of $2,500,000, $250,000. Sorry. Justin? I move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Matthew? I second the motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Simon, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes
 All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. Lutere? Yes. Smith? Yes. Wright? Yes. Yes. Cady? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number 14, an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and approve contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $108,000 for services to homeless and needy residents in February 2019. Kip?
 Whereas the Board of Directors of Seven Hills has operated a daytime facility to serve numerous homeless and needy Fayetteville residents for over 16 years, relying upon the support of several local churches, charities, and charitable persons, as well as some governmental support for veterans, etc.,
 And whereas the Fayetteville City Council approved a funding request for the 2019 fiscal year to maintain the operations of the Seven Hills Day Center, and although funding for the center by donors has improved, a shortfall still exists that jeopardizes its ability to continue to offer vital services to Fayetteville's homeless residents.
 and whereas if Seven Hills could no longer operate as Walker Family Residential Community Transitional Housing Facility, currently housed citizens might become homeless again and have to live on the streets or in the woods.
 And whereas if Seven Hills could no longer operate its daytime facility, the large number of homeless residents who depend upon this facility for showers and washing, hot food, a warm place to stay during the day, as well as an access to a telephone and other job assistance services could not find such comparable services elsewhere.
 And whereas the facilities and services provided by Seven Hills are required to be continued and should continue to be supported by the city in order to prevent our homeless and needy residents from suffering undue hardship and deprivation.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 Arkansas and Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of one hundred and eight thousand dollars for services to homeless and needy Fayetteville Residents and authorizes mayor Jordan to sign this contract Marin council if you remember almost three years ago Seven Hills came forward discussed with the mayor
 The issue that they did not have proper funding to keep the daycare center open at that point in time, the mayor brought forward to the council and you unanimously agreed to fund the center.
 At this point in time, they still have an operating shortfall. This is a request for $108,000, $9,000 funding a month to keep that daycare center open, and therefore that's the request before you. We discussed this a little bit at budget time, but that's the request. It would be $9,000 a year to assist them in funding a month.
 $9,000 a month. Oh, I'm sorry. Did I say $9,000 a year? $9,000 a month. That's correct. Sorry, it's a long night. Okay. What questions do we have on this council? All right. Any public comment on this? I'm going to bring it back to the council. John. It's almost Christmas time. I'll go ahead and quote. Jesus said, Inasmuch as you've done it to the least of these, my brethren, you've done it unto me.
 I think we should pass this and support those less fortunate in our city. Thank you. With that said, I move that we go to the second reading. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fetch. Yes. LeGere. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Haney. Yes. Yes.
 in order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with seven hills homeless center in the amount of one hundred and eight thousand dollars for services to homeless and needy residents in fayetteville in 2019. we will suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second that motion we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading something would you please call the roll
 Dutch? Yes. LeGere? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. And the ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $108,000 for services to homeless and needy residents in Fayetteville in 2019. Okay, final comments from the council. Other than that, I want to thank the council for doing this.
 Much needed. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Batch? Yes. Cloutier? Yes. Smith? Yes. Wright? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Okay, number 15, a resolution to accept and adopt a new recycling and trash collection rate study. Peter? Peter?
 Mayor and Council on February 6th of this year City Council approved a contract with MSW consultants from Orlando, Florida That contract was to conduct a recycling and trash collections rate study that would comprehensively evaluate our solid waste systems full cost of service and to develop a five-year financial plan and collection and disposal rate recommendations
 John Culbertson from MSW Consultants presented the preliminary recommendations from that study to the Water and Sewer Committee on November 11th And he is now back here tonight to present the final study recommendations to you all and I would invite him to come up here And do that as soon as I can get his presentation loaded for him, which will take me just a second All right, great
 Thank you, Peter. Thank you, Mayor and Council. Pleased to be here. I'm John Culpton. I'm a principal with MSW Consultants, and we'll get this going. Just real quickly, I've been given the expectation to give a fairly comprehensive yet still concise overview of our project methodology and obviously key results. There's quite a bit of ground to cover. I have had a dry run at this with the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee, so I'll be...
 Redoing that I recognize folks who may have heard this already. I'll try to try to keep it as fresh as I can going forward Just real quick introduction MSW consultants we are a management consulting firm specializing in the waste and recycling industry Our clients are predominantly local governments authorities state agencies We are not sort of an across-the-board utility rate consultant
 We really do specialize in the operations and the policies and the governance of municipal salt waste management systems. So this is kind of a comprehensive drill down effort and I'll segue right into some background. I think one of the reasons we understood when we came aboard to start the project
 It has been 20 years since a formal rate study has been conducted in the city of Fayetteville. That's a pretty long time in any industry and most certainly in the waste and recycling industry. So I'm sure that was clearly a driver. And then of course, the second piece of background is that the city in 2017 adopted a solid waste diversion reduction and recycling master plan, which contains some forward looking objectives for the city.
 Um, you know, really key key drivers really a good time to do a fairly forensic and comprehensive review of the city's operations cost structure and the resulting rate structure. And as Peter said, we came on board earlier this year to go through that process in some detail.
 I do have a couple more background slides because I think it does paint a little bit of the story. First of all, this is clearly, the city of Fayetteville is clearly a high growth local government, high growth area. Nowhere is that more apparent than looking at the tonnage of materials flowing through the city-owned and operated transfer station.
 So this graph that you're looking at shows the orange line, the permitted capacity, which you can see has been stair-stepping up as quantities have increased. And that blue line has been following that permitted capacity. And I think that really is reflective of the high growth area. High growth can stress waste and recycling systems because you've got to grow that infrastructure in terms of your facilities as well as your collection vehicles and crews to provide services across your customer bases.
 So that's kind of an operational key point. And I think financially, certainly,
 And I'll get into this going forward. The city starts with a great platform, a very rational rate structure. And the city does have the ability to increase residential rates with sort of cost-of-living adjustments. But if we look at the last five years, for those five years, if you add the total direct operating cost as well as the capital requirements to replace fleet vehicles and do facility upgrades –
 Recently, the solid waste operation has not been able to fully fund itself. So again, key drivers to I think why we were asked to come in and do a thorough drill down into the operating and financial performance of the solid waste function. So I'd like to talk a little bit about methodology. I'll try not to get kind of late here, try to keep this fairly quick. As I said at the outset,
 We are not what I would call sort of a generic utility rate consultant sitting at a desk just looking at financial numbers. We are big believers in taking the time to understand operationally how the city does business, how you provide services, the characteristics of your customer set outs. You know, how are you providing the different residential and commercial services that folks are receiving? And so.
 We have a fair amount of due diligence coming up the curve, some discovery of operations. We also invested some time to bring our operations folks out and get out in the field and take a look at the operational productivity of your collection systems, both residentially and commercially. We think from a ... To truly understand the cost of service, we think it's very critical to really understand the operating parameters of your system, so I did want to convey that
 That is especially important in the solid waste field. There are, you know, sort of conceptually, waste and recycling are pretty straightforward. There are many technologies, many decisions that different local governments make in terms of service frequency, the collection technology being used, and we really want to make sure we have a great operational understanding of that in doing a cost of service and rate analysis. I'm going to jump right into the rate modeling itself. So this slide, I'm not going to read all the words to you, but it's...
 The city of Fayetteville has a very comprehensive slate of services that you provide to the residential and commercial customer base.
 So one of the key steps was just defining and identifying all the services the city provides and who the customers are who are benefiting from those services. And what this slide shows is you're really in two lines of business in the industry parlance. You're vertically integrated because the city's providing the collection services to residential and commercial customers and you provide a lot of different collection services between waste, between recycling,
 Um, between single family residential, multifamily residential, going out to commercial businesses, getting into some pilot collection programs to increase the version as a result of the waste reduction master plan. Lot of collection services going on. And of course, the city also is in the facility operations business with the transfer station recycling center and compost facility. So we actually drill down to the cost of all of those as part of the study, and I'll be conveying our findings here as we go through some of the recommendations.
 I think a critical step, those of you who have probably been through some utility rate studies before, we take a very detailed look at historical and budgeted financial performance. We look at capital improvement programs. We look at vehicle replacement programs. And essentially, we had excellent collaboration with city staff in assembling the financial and operating data we need to do this. And we essentially build a test year full cost, if you will.
 So the slide before you here shows we looked at 2019 as our test year and we got three pieces of the pie which relate back to that previous slide. So you can see that the collection operations are the majority of the cost, you know, over half the cost with facilities a fairly big piece. And then, of course, there's a management administrative component that needs to be recovered with rates. And I do want to I don't want to drill down tons of numbers, but I do want to point out some numbers on this slide.
 So the total gross revenue need is about 13.5 million through recycling programs. The city is generating revenue from sale of materials, so that cuts down your total revenue need. I won't go into some of the challenges with the market, but we think that recycling revenue should continue to be recurring the way recycling is done here. So the total test year revenue need that needs to be recovered.
 From user fees from rates is that twelve point eight million dollar number so that that's kind of the bogey If you're going to be operating at full cost, that's the rate revenue you need. All right, so Again, many services many collection services multiple facilities being operated Really the rest of the slides that I have start stepping through each of the facility operations and each of the collection operations provided and
 and i'll try to concisely hit on highlights to what our analysis found and uh you know what this slide i'm going to cover because we're actually going to step through all of the facility rates as well as the residential and the commercial rates so let me not hit this slide right now because i'll just be repeating myself but i do want to talk a little bit about just an overview of the recommendations that we've made a lot of different ways this can go in this particular project i'm going to talk about the recommendations that we've made and then i'm going to talk about
 We felt it was very helpful and critical to have ongoing collaboration with city staff in looking at the results we were finding and talking about the rates. And so the rate recommendation that we have, I would characterize as a collaboration between us, your consultant, as well as city staff. Overarching comment. The city of Fayetteville has a very rational rate structure in the solid waste system. Believe me, we don't always see that.
 You already have appropriate rate mechanisms for operating facilities with facility tip fees. You have rational user fees to residential commercial customers. And we're going to have some adjustments, but all in all, a very solid platform to start things off.
 And on account of that most of our rate recommendations are just adjusting or rebalancing existing rates However, we do have a little bit of new rate with some of the pilot programs some of the commercial diversion programs for food waste and glass diversion in the commercial sector And we also have revisited the multifamily collection services which I'll talk about which I would say is a little bit more of a reconfiguration another concept that is that is noteworthy
 the city's transfer station obviously exists to benefit the residents and businesses of the city. However, it also benefits businesses and residents and haulers and surrounding areas who bring their material through the city and transfer station. And so again, in collaboration with staff,
 Uh, the thought was, you know, let's look at a tiered rate structure and what will come into that when it comes to use of that facility. Let's keep that facility as a primary resource for the city. Um, and certainly if it can serve outside the city. Great. But but that was an overarching concept we had in the multifamily sector.
 Really looked at bringing all services for refuse and recycling to as many multifamily properties as possible and removing some financial disincentives for recycling. So I'll go over that in a moment.
 And in my mind, if I look across all of the rates, arguably the one that was most out of balance would be the commercial dumpster rates. So the structure is rational, but they're a little low and a little out of balance. And so with that, I'm going to get you, I think you have about seven or eight slides go through each of these different facilities and collection services.
 I'm going to start with the facilities. It is a fantastic resource for a local government to own its own waste disposal facilities. That is definitely a financial asset. It brings value to the community. It's a great anchor facility to have. And what we found, so the current rates, we call them tip fees.
 It's what you charge, you know, you have your scale of the facility, a truck comes across, weighs it out, and then that truck is charged based on the number of tons at a dollar per ton tip fee. And what we found is that the current tip fees are not enough to cover the cost of operating the facility, loading the transfer trailers, and then the city has a contract for disposal with an area landfill. So right off the bat, we are big advocates of you covering your full cost for that service.
 And furthermore, hearkening back to the point about serving city customers versus outside of city customers, essentially the recommendation we have is to bring those tip fees a little bit above full cost because, frankly, it's a great asset, a great contingency to have.
 But then for out of city waste to increase that tip fee somewhat significantly to basically take advantage of some area logistics and economics and frankly, to keep that capacity available for city waste. All told, this ends up being about 11 percent increase for city.
 city generated waste destined for disposal. And it's a fairly sizable percentage increase for the out of city waste. But again, there's a little bit of, could be some market forces going on there. But at the end of the day, preserving that transfer station asset for the city, we think is good policy and the rate recommendations reflect that. All right, what did I do? Here we go. The second facility, your compost facility, which with the waste,
 reduction in diversion master plan, certainly diversion of organics is a big opportunity there. The compost facility doesn't do a huge amount of volume, right? It's still a fairly small facility in terms of volume. The cost and rate recommendation there essentially just looks at bumping up those tip fees kind of on a nominal level, and I think the idea is to keep composting affordable relative to waste disposal.
 And so the recommendations that we have for the compost facility are 5% increase essentially across the board for the different size vehicles using that facility. That would be the type of thing that, you know, three to five years from now, maybe revisit that. But at the current time, that's not a huge driver of your overall financial position is the operation of the compost facility. So with that, let me move into single family residential collection.
 There are a lot of numbers, a lot of rows on this table, and I'd like to just touch on a couple of things. So first of all, the City of Fayetteville already had established what we call pay as you throw rates, sometimes called variable rate pricing, meaning you give your residential customers the ability to pay less for their waste disposal if they have a smaller waste container and make fuller use of the recycling system and other alternatives to disposal.
 We are a big supporter of that system. Study after study has shown it's very effective at getting, giving incentives to residents to use recycling diversion programs. So when we did the full cost analysis, it's a little bit trickier. It's kind of interesting.
 the different cart sizes don't change the full cost tremendously. And so our objective in kind of adjusting these rates was to, first of all, we realized overall residential rates need to go up, but we're trying to minimize rate shocks and we're trying to keep the incentive there for the single family residential sector to use recycling programs and capitalize on the rate structure that you have, the pay as you throw rate structure.
 So at the end of the day the recommendation for the residential single-family sector is essentially a 5% rate increase maintaining the pay-as-you-throw rates and Again, there are a couple other rows on here of interest if we I guess we get questions later. We also looked at Additional bulky picked up pickups. We looked at the extra bag charges without going into great detail we
 We really thought this existing rate structure gave the right messages to residents to use the carts, to allow automation, to recycle. Generally, we've kept the rate structure intact, but we're trying to bump it up to move it towards the full cost.
 Question always comes up in rate studies. You know, how do our rate? How do our rates compare in this particular study? MSW consultants did not do an extensive benchmarking. However, we did communicate with staff and compiled just some local single family residential rate information from other cities. So we looked at Siloam Springs and Springdale and
 Without going into reading every row and every number at the end of the day the takeaway from this is that Fayetteville again offering pay as you throw great policy And if you look at the service levels, so Fayetteville weekly collection of refuse weekly collection of recycling So you're at or above the service frequencies of these other cities that we looked at You know kind of at the top top of the list there and from a pricing standpoint
 Very much in line with other prices and even in some cases lower than surrounding cities So again, we look at benchmark you have to take a little bit of a grain of salt because every system is a little bit different Our takeaway, you know from a consultant standpoint is that the city of Fayetteville's rates are Reasonable and in line with the services you're offering and within the surrounding area So I just want to share that all right shifting over to multifamily collection this is I think this is a customer class and
 where, as we discussed with staff, how services are provided now and what's the right direction for multifamily. I think this is a place that we really drilled down on because at the current time, the rates were essentially a disincentive to recycle because there was a rate for refuse collection, and then there was an incremental charge if you also wanted recycling. Well, that's a disincentive to recycle, so that was the first thing that we were aware of.
 Second of all, is that the cost to provide service differs whether you're a larger apartment, maybe with a central container, or whether you're a garden apartment where maybe there's more of a curbside type collection. So we looked at the different costs to the different types of multifamily property characteristics that the city serves. And I think what was the outcome of all this is let's set a single all inclusive rate for the multifamily sector that covers refuse and recycling.
 And then let's expand access to recycling collection in multifamily properties. And so the recommendation that we're bringing to you today for multifamily is to not change the multifamily rate at all, to eliminate the additional charge for multifamily properties that want certain type of recycling and to increase access to recycling to multifamilies.
 I would I guess I would characterize this as relatively one of the more aggressive recommendations to take that waste reduction and master plan objectives and bring that to the multifamily customer class while trying to keep the rates unchanged and reasonable for the multifamily sector. All right, I'm going to shift over to commercial dumpster collection, commercial collection of the trucks that go around with big forks on the front that lift the larger containers. And there are a bunch of numbers on this table.
 Don't look at the numbers. If I had a pointer, I would point to it. The two key takeaways. So first of all,
 These are rate matrices. So just real quickly, these tables show different sizes of containers, two yard, four yard, six yard, eight yard container going down the rows. And then the number of days per week the city has to deploy a collection vehicle to go to that customer to pick up that container. So this would be a commercial rate. These are standard commercial rate matrices. Again, the city's rates structure is very rational because you have an existing rate matrix here.
 The takeaway, you know, having not adjusted this for 20 years, what we found is that across the board, these rates are low to the commercial sector. Um, philosophically, I think we would generally support and advise that you should charge a full cost to your commercial customers for providing that service.
 And I think the other important thing is the rates were out of balance. So the smaller container sizes have significantly lower rates than they should because at the end of the day, it costs the same amount to send a truck out to lift a little two-yard container as it does to lift a big eight-yard container.
 So part of our cost of service model identified and corrects for that that change. And so essentially we have a an updated commercial rate matrix. Overall, the average across the board is about is about 15.8%. There are some substantially larger percentage increases for commercial customers who have the smaller containers. And there are some very, very small increases for customers that have the larger containers. But at the end of the day, again, our objective is to move city rates
 Towards the full cost so that there's not you know subsidization going on between different customers Obviously minimizing rate shock as well. So this was the balance that we arrived at on the commercial sector All right, so waste diversion recycling master plan Envisions enhanced recycling the commercial sector. This is kind of an interesting issue If you think about it it costs the same for a truck to go to a location and pick up a dumpster full of trash as it does for that truck To pick up a dumpster full of recycling
 Now, it may cost to dispose of the trash. You may earn revenue on the recycling, but the collection component of that cost is the biggest driver. So a fair amount of discussion with staff and in talking about how to formulate rates for commercial recycling. At the end of the day, we try to strike a balance to keep commercial recycling going.
 Lower than commercial trash collection while still having a charge just to acknowledge and recognize that it is an incremental cost to go out and provide that recycling service. And so what you'll see is that The commercial recycling dumpster rates are set at a percentage of the same size dumpster would be charged for trash collection different cities go different directions on that we have some clients who
 Give all commercial recycling for free and subsidize it. We think that gets kind of messy. That gets kind of hard to know what's really going on. We don't have too many cities that are charging the full cost of recycling for the reason that it does provide somewhat of a financial disincentive to charge for costs. So I would characterize this recommendation as a commonly arrived upon balance to make commercial recycling.
 something that businesses could legitimately use to divert some of their waste and not break the bank in doing so. And so we built this into the overall commercial rate structure. I will point out also, we brought in, with a pilot test, there's a glass rate. Again, it is set a little bit low, but again, the idea is to make that accessible to start moving towards some of the diversion targets that the city has previously adopted. Closing in, I appreciate your patience so far.
 One of the last collection services I want to touch on is Dropbox Collection. You can see the picture on the bottom. Those are the large 20, 30, 40 gallon containers that require a truck to drive out and essentially hoist that container on the back of the truck. If you think about that, the cost to provide that service, it's the cost to drive the truck to the location and load the container and drive it to the transfer station.
 Plus the tip fee on the waste contained in the container or if it's cardboard Maybe you're earning revenue on the container. So What we found really pretty minimal changes the historical rate structure had slight differences depending on the container size and
 In practice, there is no there's no cost difference whether you're picking up a 20 to 30 or 40 yard container. It's the same truck, same driver. So essentially, our recommendation is to simplify the drop box rate structure with a uniform cost per pull and also to equilibrate the disposal fee to our recommended tip fee.
 At the transfer station and again, I think this makes that service more consistent more equitable and frankly Very reflective of the full cost to provide the service. All right, so we have gone through a bunch of details I'd like to come back to some of the big picture takeaways based on this outcome the outcome of our rate analysis when we look at the full cost of
 uh revenue need uh and essentially what we find is at the current rate there would be about a 12 uh shortfall the good news uh again I think hearkening to the rational rate structure um the conservative management that the city has undertaken with its solid waste system we don't need to raise rates 12 in order to make this system work the rate recommendations when I tie all those together I know I pitch up with a lot of details all the different services the different
 But the overall rate increase that we're recommending, instead of coming to 12%, we're coming at about 9.1% on that.
 And the good news is because the city maintains operating reserves and its solid waste fund, and those reserves can cover some of that gap. We also have a caveat that I'll talk about in just a moment. There is a need to revisit the CPI rate increases going forward just to keep the system healthy, to account for your growth, to account for legitimate increases in equipment, perhaps local wage increases and that sort of thing.
 And I think the other the other situation that is obviously ongoing is implementation of the waste diversion master plan As those initiatives get underway and expand obviously those need to be funded And so this study was done Trying to get everything up to date from 20 years of no full-cost study and also position the city for continued successful implementation of its waste diversion master plan alright, just to drill down a little bit on that number and
 So you may recall that pie chart I showed you at the beginning. I said hey Rate revenues need to be about twelve point eight million this table shows in the recommended rate revenue column a nine percent nine point one percent rate increase gets you up to about Twelve point five million and that is going to make you healthy going forward about a nine point one percent system increase I
 You can see, and I'll just mention this because there may be questions, you can see that certainly the percentage change does differ from the different services, the different customer classes. And again, we really tried to look at each of those individually and not just be coming to you with blanket recommendations. We really tried to think through, you know, what needs to happen for each of these.
 Just some numbers, I think, maybe to keep this in perspective. On the one hand, you're hearing, oh my gosh, 9.1% overall rate increase. So let's look at single family. Essentially, the rate increase we're talking about is about 74 cents per household per month. We're obviously not looking to break the bank for anybody.
 On the multifamily, we're not changing the refuse rate at all, and we're actually taking away the incremental recycling charge. So that should be a benefit to multifamily rate payers. There will be no additional impact on them. On the commercial trash and recycling, the average is about $11 a month rate impact. Now, I will tell you that is going to vary. If you have very small containers, you're going to have a higher impact than that.
 But again, we wanted to give you some dollars per month in terms of how these rates really impact, because I think that helps keep some of these percentages a little bit more in perspective. Just got a couple more slides left. So let's look at projected operating reserves. So we are maintaining, I believe it is a 90-day operating reserve was our target. The top graph, the status quo graph.
 essentially shows if there were no rate increases, what would happen to the operating reserve. And you can see a couple of years, those start to go negative. So with the recommended rates, again, one of our key targets is to make sure the city's overall system
 maintains its financial health, the services are sustainable, you're prepared for growth of your customer base, you're prepared for the new pilot programs and enhanced programs for the waste diversion plan. And that, you know, we think the rates that we brought to you achieve that goal and maintain, frankly, a very soundly managed system with a rational rate structure. And in that regard, you know, we think we will meet the goals
 Couple of comments on future rate considerations because I'm sure this industry will continue evolving. There will continue to be, you know, increases in expenses, increases in wages. There may be who knows what changes may come across the board at the moment. The current ordinance allows for.
 CPI rate increases to the residential rates. I think one of the recommendations we would have is to consider See allowing CPI increases to all of the rates if necessary because that's going to help you keep those in balance going forward We don't think you will need another rate increase for at least two years Two to three you might start looking again. This this was a five-year rate plan that we looked at and
 We actually looked at a capital purchases out 10 years just to be responsible to get to come back with a five year view of things. But two to three years out, it could be possible that a CPA rate rate increase CPI rate increase would just continue to maintain that system health.
 And, you know, again, the industry is changing, the technology technology is changing. There have been some big impacts in the recycling market that has impacted recycling, not just here, but across the country, certainly four to five years. I would say that is the standard duration of a typical solid waste utility rate study. So, again, just getting out a little bit ahead, but something to keep in mind.
 That pretty much does it. The next steps would certainly be, certainly having to answer any questions folks may have, and depending on how things go, to look at making the ordinance amendments to implement the new rates. And certainly, every customer's gonna have a little adjustment with the exception of multifamily, so there will need to be appropriate outreach, and 90-day delayed implementation. And if I understand it correctly,
 Staff has some follow on in terms of these next steps. But that said, I would be more than happy. I feel like I've laid a lot on you. There's a lot of detail in here. Took a lot of work to get down to where we had a good understanding of the cost. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. What questions do we have, council? And for what it's worth, there's a fairly dense report that would have been attached to the packet that should be available to whoever wants to look at it as well. So appreciate your attention. Okay, John.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Tell me your name again. John Culbertson. Thank you, John. My first question will be for Paul Becker, our CFO. Paul, in 2017, the last full year of operations for our trash and recycling, what were the results of operation? Just off the top of your head. Did we make money or lose money? 2017, we were under an operations – I'm trying to think of the shortfall –
 Going off the top of my head, I think it was a couple hundred thousand dollars, John. Again, that's coming off the top of my head. And right now, we're almost at the end of 2018. Do you have an idea where we are a year to date?
 We'll end up with a shortfall. We'll probably end up this year with another $200,000 to $300,000 shortfall, depending on when I close out the books, depending on whether or not we complete capital. As far as 2019, we talked about 2019. 2019, we're budgeted right now for a shortfall in excess of $600,000. This study, if we looked at this and based it on that study,
 that study we should get sufficient revenue if we change the ordinance to increase rates to break even at least at that point in time. Thank you, Paul. John, I have a constituent who wants me to ask you four or five questions and I think several of us on the council received this email.
 This is my last meeting, so I have nothing to lose. Here we go. She reminds me that I am still her council member tonight. So I have some duty to ask these questions. How does the proposed rate structure encourage residents of multiplexes to generate less garbage? So the multifamily sector...
 because of its use of centrally located receptacles for both waste and recyclables, is not as easy to have a generation, a waste generation incentive. The focus we took did not go towards how do we give an incentive to reduce waste
 waste generation it did go towards how can the city expand access to recycling which should with uh commensurate outreach and education should reduce disposal and shift materials to recycling by expanding that access so i would say it's a little bit of an indirect way of addressing that question that we brought forth in the recommendations
 I want to add real quick that the other component to that is removing the financial disincentive that currently exists within commercial recycling, right? Excuse me, multifamily recycling. Currently, multifamily complexes that want to participate in recycling have to pay 97 cents per unit extra to participate in recycling.
 and the proposed rate structure would eliminate that additional 97 cent per unit charge, so there would be no financial disincentive to participate in the recycling program. Thank you, Peter. Thank you, John. Question number two, how does the MSW proposed rate structure equalize garbage generation responsibility between homeowners and owners of multiplexes? This is for John. Okay.
 the uh the overall rate structure uh if you look at the services provided to single-family residents which include refuse collection recycling collection yard waste collection bulky waste collection and you look at the rates
 They're up here. And if you look at the multifamily sector, what services they get, refuse collection, bulky collection, recycling collection, not not yard waste, but the rates are lower. And I think one of our objectives in this rate structure is to have rates that are reflective of the services being provided. And that's why the multifamily rates overall are lower than the single family rates. So I think we tried to we've tried to get at setting the rates reasonably to cover the services being provided.
 I don't know if that directly solves the full question, but that has been our objective. Thank you, John. Peter, this may be more of a direct question for you. Does the planning department require developers to build in some sort of sorting options so that the residents can sort their recyclables as is done in apartment complexes in large cities like New York?
 September of this year, City Council passed a series of ordinances to amend the development code that required space for recycling for commercial office and mixed-use developments. I'm not aware of anything in the residential multifamily sector that requires space.
 for recycling, but I certainly think that if that's a priority for the council, that's something we can work with development services to take a look at and see if there's a way to incorporate that into the current development code. Okay. My constituent is very concerned about pseudo recycling. I think this is things that we, the citizens put into our recycle bins that end up in the landfill anyway. So this question is kind of aimed at that. MSW presentation at the Water and Sewer Committee meeting.
 obviously single stream is still in consideration this constituent is not in favor of single stream recycling and so the question is aimed at that can you please name the model single stream recycling facility about which any of the city staff would support so there's nothing there's there's nothing in this current rate proposal that
 in any way implies or directs the city to work towards single stream all of the Expansion of recycling services are utilizing the city's existing Curbsort program we would be expanding the curbsort program to multifamily complexes that are 24 units and less and
 And we would also be expanding the current battleship recycling, which are the large containers that have the separated compartments for the different commodities of recyclables. And so expanding access in terms of placement of those units at multifamily complexes in addition to cardboard recycling, paper recycling, glass recycling, and food waste composting. So there's nothing in the plan.
 that that that directs us to work towards single stream and I'm not aware of any model facility that any of our staff have been researching with regard to single stream and
 I'm gonna go a step further. I'm gonna go a step further on that this council passed a waste and recycling master plan that explicitly excludes single stream as an option for the city to pursue the mayor has directed staff to not Research that to not implement it to not have it in any way and that is the direction that I give the staff My decision will be most gratified. Thank you. I
 We continue to not be focused on single stream recycling. In my mind, the book is still open on single stream recycling. My constituents are much more agitated about single stream recycling than I am. Some people tell me single stream recycling does involve more waste, a higher degree of waste, but it makes recycling so easy. You have more people and you have a net gain in recycling.
 And I tend to believe that more than the other so to be clear on that however though And the staff works on the direction of the policy of the council and the current policy of the council Is that that is not included in our master plan or operational plan? So until the majority of this council changes what has been previously adopted. We are not pursuing it My decision would be most gratified. Thank you One final question John. What did you charge us for the study? I?
 I want to say it was just shy of $50,000 all told. And if anybody remembers better, $47,000. Thank you. Okay. What other questions do we have? I'm surprised John didn't ask this, but I'm going to. There's a lot of services in there. Some of them are above cost. Some of them are under. Can you just summarize real quickly what are the –
 the things that we are incentivizing with a subsidy that presumably we're saying we want people to do more of? Yeah, I think that's a fair question. And just real simply, the answer is the subsidies are primarily focused on making recycling affordable.
 whether it's the glass pilot, whether it's commercial organics, whether it is giving residents an incentive to use the recycling program and reduce their trash service. I think that's an overall component that flows throughout the rate structure.
 Uh, but you know, I think the flip side there was there when we started, if you look at the current rates there, they were off. So there's some subsidy. I think the other thing that we're trying to correct for, uh, that I think we've moved towards with this rate recommendation is getting every customer class kind of moving towards their full cost. So within the commercial sector.
 the commercial refuse might be subsidizing commercial recycling, but we want to sort of have the commercial sector contained and the residential sector. The folks generating a lot of trash might be subsidizing a little bit. The folks who they're, you know, really recycling a lot with smaller containers. But we're trying to keep all that cost contained in the residential sector. So I think there's really kind of a balancing act in doing this. And that's really what we sought to obtain is move towards customer class full cost, you know, kind of being contained within each customer class, but still making recycling affordable.
 Does that does that hit the answer the question I think it was getting there. I just wanted to list we're smaller trash cans commercial recycling so Gosh, I'd almost have to go back through the slides to hit you know to hit all of them There's just a whole bunch of little ones all mixed through Let's just hit some of the big ones residential sector well first of all
 Our recommended rate for tip fees at the transfer station are a little above the full cost and frankly that lets the city Operate the compost facility and it grow into that it lets you operate the recycling facility and grow So it gives you a good base. So there's a little bit of of Contribution from tip fees that flows through the whole operation. I think that think that's a big one It's not very much but just because there's a lot of tons there So it's a big piece of the pie
 On the residential sector, residents who generate lots and lots of waste and need a really big refuse container are going to subsidize folks that are using a smaller refuse container and hopefully recycling more. Maybe they're smaller households. I mean, frankly, there's a benefit. For example, if you have an elderly couple that doesn't generate a lot of waste, they have an opportunity to economize on the rates they're being charged. So I think there's some benefit there.
 On the multifamily side, I think we remove disincentives. I think we're trying to – the city is trying to increase access to recycling and equilibrate services. So on the multifamily sector, it's a uniform rate, and now services can expand in that sector. On the commercial side, the businesses with large dumpsters will continue to slightly subsidize and in some cases subsidize the smaller – the customers with smaller containers more.
 We have cut into that, and by increasing all the rates across the board on the commercial refuse sector, that allows the city to keep the commercial recycling rates of what we think is affordable based on existing commercial recycling rates. And we have some history, so we know that there are customers using those rates now. So we try to maintain that affordability. So there's some subsidization happening on the commercial side for that affordability. There really isn't anything...
 The Dropbox service is pretty much at full cost. We pretty much hit that right on. It's about as commercial full cost as you can get. I hope I'm not forgetting any. I think that's most. If there's any that you're thinking of that I didn't touch on, let me know, but I think that's all I can think of. Last one. Why does a residential 96-gallon bin cost less than a commercial 96-gallon bin? So if you look at –
 If you look at routing, residential high density routing, you're going down a neighborhood and every 90 feet, 100 feet, you're stopping. Typically, small businesses that have that cart service
 you're deviating from the route. The whole solid waste collection business, it's a time business. It's how fast can you go collect those stops. And we came out, we observed collections and consistent in Fayetteville, as we've seen in other cities that will also provide the small business service. As soon as that truck has to go off route and drive longer drive time, that's increasing the cost to serve those customers.
 We think that is a common it's basically common to have that we think it's justified by the incremental operating costs because you've got more drive time to go serve those customers. So commercial is closer together and easier to serve and that's much cheaper. No residential residential is is more high density. I thought I read that the residential was the more expensive one. Let me double check. OK. If there's a slide I could jump back to. No I'm reading it in our in our residential slide.
 22 03 commercial 1983 I guess I'd have to look at that so nothing I would add Kyle is that the residential rate includes Composting as well. So the commercial rate does not qualify for weekly compost pickup The residential rate also includes the one time a year bulky waste pickup and then participation in the bulky four times a year
 or eight times a year actually um ward cleanups right so it's just additional services there's additional services that are in the residential rate that are not in the commercial rate yeah thank you obviously it's getting a little late for my east coast brain because i was thinking strictly apples to apples refuse to refuse but on the rate level that's exactly that's exactly right the residential rate is covering refuse recycling yard waste bulky pickups that commercial refuse rate is just covering lifting the refuse cart
 So sorry I didn't get that.
 Any other questions? I don't have any questions, but just a comment that we also think that this out-of-city discussion is important because when we're providing water service and sewer service out of the city, we do 1.5 times our rate, so we actually collect a higher fee when we're operating outside the city because it's capacity being taken. And so the whole movement towards the out-of-city tip fees is to be in line with what we do in other utilities as well.
 Okay. What public comment do we have? I'm bringing it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Any comments? Anybody with me? I thought it was a pretty good presentation. I thought it was, too. Okay. I was hoping we would have a little discussion on Adele. Okay.
 Was just gonna pass resolution, but if you want to talk about it, we can I'm excited about it. I think it's great It's long overdue. That's for sure Nothing we like better than rate studies Sure, I'm just second that resolution. Okay, we have a motion in section to pass the resolution any final comments from the council
 Okay, Sandra, would you please call her up? Budge? Yes. Lutera? No. Yes. Yes. Marsh? Yes. Haney? Yes. Hanna? Yes. Okay, thank you all. That was a very good presentation, really good.
 Okay, number 16 ordinance to amend 50 point 40 rates and serve for services of the federal city code to align the city's recycling and trash collection rates with the recent rate study Whereas the recycling and trash collection rates W consultants made several recommendations based on cost of service analysis and the goals of the city's 2017 solid waste reduction diversion and recycling master plan which
 which are reflected in the staff recommended amendments to the rates for recycling and trash collection services below. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal Section 50.40, Rates for Services, and enact a new Section 50.40 as follows.
 50.40 rates for services subsection a fee increases The recycling and trash user fee shall be adjusted annually based upon the consumer price index as published by the US Department of Labor unless specifically weighed by City Council resolution subsection B residential single-family and duplex service
 Recycling and trash shall be collected from residential, single-family, and duplex customers one time each week for the following rates. Container volume 32, $10.16. Container volume 64, $15.52. And container volume 96, $22.03. That's all monthly rates. Subsection 1, there shall be no charge for the collection of residential yard waste.
 Residential single-family duplex service customers shall receive bulk collection at no charge one time per year. Subsection 3, if residential single-family duplex customer wishes to exchange to a larger residential garbage cart size, the customer shall be assessed a $25 trip fee. No fee shall be assessed for customers wishing to exchange to a smaller cart. Subsection 4, the charge for an extra bag or an overfill...
 Over full cart shall be $6.72. Subsection C, residential multifamily service. Trash shall be collected from residential multifamily customers one time each week at a rate of $9.72 per dwelling unit per month unless the owner of a multifamily complex requests greater volume or frequency of service than a minimum required service as determined by the recycling and trash collection manager.
 When requests for greater volume or frequency of service by an owner are made, rates shall be determined by the prevailing commercial service rate divided by the number of dwelling units. Multifamily trash service shall include recycling subject to availability as determined by the recycling and trash collections director. Subsection D, commercial service. Trash shall be collected from commercial customers as shown below. The monthly commercial rate shall be?
 for commercial user fee schedule the commercial container size of 95 gallon cart is 19.83 cents per pickup two cubic yards 47.50 per pickup four cubic yard 88.45 cents per pickup six cubic yards 115 dollars per pickup and eight cubic yards 144 dollars per pickup
 Subsection 2, commercial 95-gallon carts shall be picked up once per week, Monday through Thursday. Larger commercial containers shall be serviced at a minimum of once per week and a maximum of six times per week, Monday through Saturday, except authorized holidays for city employees and unavoidable inclement weather.
 Section 3, the rate for providing extra collection of any 95-gallon cart shall be twice the monthly collection rate based on the number of collections per week as established by Section 50.40B1. The rate for providing extra collection for any commercial front load dumpster shall be one-half the monthly per cubic yard rate for each dumpster size. Section 4, the rate for providing cardboard and recycling service shall be 25%.
 the equivalent commercial container trash service Section 5 container rental rental is a flat fee per month And container rental dumpster lease fee schedule for the container size of two cubic yards monthly rate of 1353 four cubic yards 1547 six cubic yards $18 and eight cubic yards $21 and 25 cents
 Subsection E, use of composting facility. Businesses, including commercial landscapers and tree trimmers, and non-residents that bring brush to the city's composting facility for disposal, will be charged as follows.
 For the size of a compact pickup trucks, $5.25. Full-size pickup trucks, $8.40. Trailers up to 14 feet long, $10.50. Trailers greater than 14 feet long, $15.75. And I guess that's the changes.
 Mayor and Council, as was discussed on the previous agenda item and resolution that you all just passed, MSW Consultants was contracted with the city to provide a comprehensive recycling and trash collections rate study and evaluate our rates and provide rate recommendations. You all just heard an extensive report on those rate recommendations.
 implementation and passage of this ordinance would enact those rate changes and Would allow the recycling and trash collections division to more fully implement the 2017 recycling master plan specifically the changes would allow the recycling and trash collections division to provide all-inclusive trash and recycling services for multifamily and small commercial complexes and
 As was mentioned previously, these complexes had to pay extra for recycling services. It would expand our curbside recycling program to apartment complexes that are 24 units and less.
 It would discount commercial cardboard and paper recycling it would transition our commercial food waste Composting pilot project to a full-fledged service It would transition our commercial glass pilot to full service and would increase transfer station tip fees to encourage diversion And out of as was mentioned out of out of city transfer station rates would be higher than in city transfer station rates. I
 as the city attorney described the ordinance changes are in Chapter 50 point four of the public works section of city code Those actual changes are in an exhibit in your packet. I
 And the city attorney just read all those changes run through them real quickly. They are essentially to relocate the language on the consumer price index And how that would be applied Previously the consumer price index rate was only applied to residential customers the change in ordinance would apply that to all customer classes and
 The changes adjust the single-family residential trash and recycling rates. That's a 5% increase, and it was mentioned in the presentation that's an average of a 74-cent increase per household. It would adjust the residential extra trip and extra bag charges to align with the recycling rates.
 and trash rate study recommendations it would adjust the Codified multifamily rate to match the current rate would add language that allows for all-inclusive Trash and recycling services for multifamily and small complexes as was mentioned this removes the financial disincentive that currently exists those Customers to participate in our recycling program it would adjust the commercial trash and recycling
 Rates to align with the rate study recommendations as was mentioned in the report that is a fifteen point eight percent increase For the commercial classes on average that is eleven dollars per month per customer It would add language that allows us to discount commercial recycling rates and it adds language adjusting the commercial dumpster lease rates to align with the rate study recommendations and
 As was mentioned in the presentation, the overall impact of the recommended rate changes and these ordinance changes is a 9.1% increase in the recycling and trash collection rates. Okay. What questions do we have for Peter? I know this went through the water and sewer. Is everybody okay with it?
 I have a question for our consultant. Okay. If I could. On the use of composting facility, I noticed before it was all just even dollars, 5, 8, 10, and 15. I know you want to increase it. I thought maybe it might be easier for, to collect and make change if you just left the pickup trucks at 5 and 8 and increased the trailers to 11 and 16.
 So they're not having to make change of 25 cents or 40 cents and stuff like that. I don't know what Jeff Cole thinks about that, but I don't know how they normally pay down there. Well, there's different methods. We take point of sale credit cards. So change is not that particular problem. You don't mind making that change to make dollars and 40 cents? Yeah, it was a blanket change for that service, all told.
 spread across the customer classes based on vehicle size. As long as there's not an administrative problem that can change then there's no problem. Adele. I just wanted to say that I'm especially glad to see that we're including multifamily more and working to especially, I want us to continue to work hard at the university and I'm glad for that. Thank you.
 We absolutely agree with that comment, Council Member Gray. We're excited about the expansion of the multifamily recycling. In fact, our plans are to bring on two new routes next year to provide multifamily recycling specifically focused on those units, those multifamily units that are 24 units and less. Thank you. Great. With a curb sort program. Yes. Correct. Curb sort program.
 I'm doing a curb soar program. Okay. Peter. Oh, John, I believe you have a question. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. That's why I asked Paul Becker the question, how much money did we lose in 2017? That's our last fiscal year that we've completed. He said a couple hundred thousand. How much are we going to lose this year? Probably $200,000 or $300,000. But we're increasing the total revenue by over a million. I mean, that just didn't seem like a very good deal to me for our citizens. And that's why I voted no on that previous resolution.
 It's just the numbers aren't balancing out. And I realized, well, I'm a businessman, okay? I want a good deal. I'm paying $1 million to make up $200,000 or $300,000. I should be paying $200,000 or $300,000 instead of $1 million. So it didn't seem like a good price. But now in this proposal, you're going to automatically increase my rate each year by the consumer price index unless the council acts.
 That looks like an automatic rate increase to me. I mean, I have credit card companies all the time who want me to get on their automatic pay plan. And I don't want to give anybody access to my checking account just automatically. Like, call me and I'll pay you. Or send me a bill and I'll pay you. But this is automatic. And I don't know how most people pay their trash bill, but in my case it just gets drafted out of my account. So it's an automatic rate increase. That concerns me. How would you answer that?
 Actually, I'd love to take that. I think that's a good question. I'd love to. I'd love to elaborate a little bit on our development of full cost projections. And forgive me, I think I didn't mention this as I was going through my presentation. The city has, I think, a very conservative way of managing its solid waste utility. You're purchasing vehicles. So you need vehicles like everything you're purchasing vehicles with cash.
 We've maintained that conservatism going forward. I didn't put a graph in the proposal, but there is one in the full report We actually looked out at a 10-year vehicle replacement plan In other words, we know how much vehicles cost we know they're useful life how long they're gonna last We also as Peter mentioned we have built in some new routes to service Multifamily recycling some of the pilot programs becoming permanent. So there's a growth in your system. That's occurring and
 on you know as well so between additional capital purchases growth in the system
 All of those schedules are built into and go into the full cost. And essentially, the modeling that we did has the city continuing to not only fund direct operating expense, but also to fund those new programs as well as equipment purchases, as well as some capital improvement plans. And there's some transfer station infrastructure upgrades that, again, we've built into the plan to be paid for in cash. And so all of those factor in over a 10-year time period.
 Forgive me. I have an exhibit. I probably should have shown you that exact I think it's informative to see there's some pretty big vehicle replacement hits that start coming up out in years five six and seven So that you know, we took a five-year view for the rate study But in order to do that responsibly you got to look at a ten-year vehicle replacement and capital improvement plan So those schedules are in the report the second thing I'll just add real quickly to
 Turn this over with regards to this the CPI increase The idea we actually don't think you will need any CPI increase for two years. Maybe three and
 We did think it was appropriate to allow a CPI increase, not just limited to the residential sector, which is how the ordinance reads now, but to allow a CPI increase across the other commercial sector as well as facility tip fees, because there's a contract for disposal that escalates every year. So the idea for that ordinance change was to give flexibility. There's no obligation to raise rates by a CPI increase, but at the moment it was limited to only applying to the residential sector.
 I might just add that I think that's part of the problem we have with rate disparity between residential and commercial because we've had CPI index increases on the residential side and so it's why we can do much smaller percentages of increase even after a 20-year study in 1992 because we had that built in. On the commercial side, they truly have not, we have not changed our ordinances because of that requirement since 1999, I believe.
 And that is why we also are seeing a larger increase in their particular segment, because otherwise we end up subsidizing it through other rate areas. I'm not objecting to the CPI indexing of fees. I just don't want it to be automatic. Make us vote on it. If we're going to increase the fees that we're charging our citizens, we should have a public vote on that. Instead of just making it automatic, we have to public vote to not increase it.
 I guess my point to you would be is that for many years, even the mayor's first six years in office, I believe we brought forward the item to waive those automatic increases until recently when we got behind the rate. Thank you.
 And so I am confident in the elected officials who are being accountable to citizens on what they pay on a monthly basis. There's nothing automatic in that. We look at them each budget year when you talk about this. And just as we're evaluating how much you go into your reserves, the other item is that, you know, when we talk about only being behind $200 or $300, we also set money behind every year for capital. When we have projects like...
 We're going to build concrete pads to do composting and it's a 600,000 item. We don't cover that with one year's revenue. It's a multi-year item. And so part of this rate structure is to accrue for those future capital items.
 I want to make a couple of comments John when I talked about this year and us folding in six hundred thousand dollars loss those were those were in operating costs not capital costs. I didn't include capital costs. One of the things that they addressed were trying to smooth capital over a period of time. We're doing it. We're doing a number of things.
 Increased capital expenditures over time or using that period to accumulate some up and down and we're also using Reserves all to fund that so to look at a one-year period is very difficult Don't forget that this year based on the new plan the operating costs are much larger than they had in the last couple of years That's why the losses are are bigger now that when we increase the new plan We added new people
 You added new routes. We did a number of things that increased those operating costs quite a bit. So that's why when we're looking at these numbers, they've expanded this year and into next year quite a bit. I would hope that any new route we add, just like any business enterprise, this is an enterprise fund, we would not charge less than our cost for that route. Each new route should pay for itself or our pricing is off.
 I think that's what this study is showing you, is that the current rates aren't covering that cost, which is why we're having this discussion. Maybe, but we're still collecting more. And, you know, maybe it's all in capital improvements. But in a business setting, we charge depreciation. So we're counting the cost of those assets in the current operating rate. That's the matching principle of accounting. If you're not charging off your capital expenditures each operating period, you're not counting all your costs.
 So then your financial statement is not reflecting the true cost of providing the service. Well, we've got a couple of things in play. Number one, when you ask what our losses are, et cetera, we are, in fact, including depreciation rather than capital. That's how we account for on a financial basis in our audit. However, when we look to the budget side, we've got to have those to budget them. So we have to kind of look at both of them, which is a little different, John.
 Thank you. I'm done. Okay, any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public input on this.
 Teresa Turk 1408 was Cleveland. Um, you know, it's late as we all know you guys have been here a long time I would just ask that this be allowed to go the second reading It's going to involve the public Being charged more money if it's adopted tonight I think everybody probably needs to have an adequate time to kind of look at this rate study. And so That's what I would ask you all to do. Thank you comments
 Okay, I'm going to bring it to the council. What does the council wish? Sarah? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Sarah? I second that. Okay. I have a motion to second go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Lejeune? No. No. Yes. Yes. Teddy? Yes. Kenneth? Yes.
 That's five votes for and two against to suspend the rules you need six votes Okay, at least remaining on the first reading In order to vacate portions of utility utility easements in phases one and two of the Oak Brook subdivision Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes
 And whereas a prior replant of the Oak Brook subdivision was intended in part to vacate certain utility easements, but the specific procedure for vacating utilities was set forth in Section 171.06 of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code was not followed, and the vacations were never approved by the City Council. And whereas pursuant to Section 171.06E of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code, a request to vacate a public easement need not be presented to the Planning Commission,
 before being submitted to the City Council, as long as the City Council makes certain findings by a vote of at least two-thirds of its membership in the Mayor, that means six affirmative votes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the city council the six of the city of favor arcs are hereby fined pursuant to section 171.06 e1 of the fable unified development code that the public utility easements shown in the surveys attached collectively as exhibit a and described in exhibit b do not contain any utilities within the areas to be vacated section two that the city council city of favor actually hereby finds pursuant to section 171.06 e2
 of the faithful unified development code that special circumstances exist which require prompt consideration of the vacation request and justify bypassing the planning commission section three
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates the portions of utility easements as described and shown in Exhibits A and B attached to this ordinance, and Section 4, a copy of this ordinance newly certified by the City Clerk, along with the surveys and legal description attached to Exhibit A and B, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Okay. Garner. Very quickly, you vacated the easement on Saturday night two weeks ago.
 Tonight is a request for additional easement on Friday night. And additional easement is what basically has the easement you dealt with. Two weeks ago. I'm sorry. I believe the applicant's representative can speak to that.
 That's correct. These are exhibits that Kit mentioned in the ordinance. Yes. I'm Derek Thomas with Bates & Associates. I think most of you were here two weeks ago for part one of our utilities on vacation on Starry Night. That was passed unanimous. This is basically part two.
 cleaning up the replant that was approved by planning commission many years ago and that now officially need to be approved by city council to get the easements totally vacated okay what discussion do we have what questions we have from council on this
 So I have a question for the city attorney, I think. Earlier today, or tonight, when we passed a similar vacation over on Greg Street, there was a standard condition that we see in all of these that
 It's approval subject to the condition that relocation or damage of utilities be at the expense of the developer And that's not in these does that need to be especially since our section one has this determining There's no utilities without talking to the utility companies first Well if there no utilities in there, which you must find then there's nothing to be hurt Or nothing to be moved
 I think most of these easements are underneath structures. Is that right? That is correct, yes. So you have to determine there's no utilities in here before you can grant this. So if you think that any of these utilities are within this area, you cannot grant this. So you're making a finding that there are no utilities in these easements and therefore there's nothing that could be damaged.
 And that's why I think it was not placed in this ordinance. So the point being, Kyle, is that you're taking the applicant's interpretation that there are no utilities because there is not a utility funding of that in this particular item. It just seems that we can say there's nothing there and there's.
 99.99% sure there's nothing there, but just in the off chance that we missed something here. It just felt like that was something that we cover normally that was missing here. Any other questions? No response. Yes, sir. Let me give you a little bit of history.
 Back in the 2000s, the 90s and 2000s or whatever, under contemporary development, there was a standard practice of putting a side lot line easement on every other lot. And Oak Brook was no different. So the engineering company at the time did that. And so these easements were never even used. And so, again, as I said the last time we were here, and I will say it again, we have not bypassed anything.
 We have gone through the Planning Commission, Tech Plat, all the utility companies have signed off on the new plats saying that we're okay with this too. I am so sure of it that I'll tell you tonight, if there's anything in them, I'll pluck them out myself and move them at my own cost. That's how confident I am. Now, there's nothing in these easements. Yep, thank you. Okay, any other questions from the council? John? I move we suspend the rules and go to second reading. Well, let me take some public comment first. Okay.
 but good job john do we have any public comment on this issue okay i'm going to bring it back to the council now john now i'll move we go second reading just second we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading son would you please call the row yes yes yes yes yes yes and your order to vacate portions of utility easements in phases one and two of the oak brook subdivision just
 Move we spin the rules go third and final reading John second motion mayor. We have a motion second to go to the third and final Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, and your nests vacate portions of utility easements in phases one and two of the Oak Brook subdivision Sun which please call the roll
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, a couple of announcements. City offices will be closed on Monday, December the 24th, and Tuesday, December the 25th for the Christmas Eve and Christmas Day holidays, as well as the following Tuesday, January the 1st, for the New Year holidays.
 I want to remind the newly elected council members that agenda session will move to the Thursday of that week of the 24th, since we are closed on Tuesday the 25th.
 So that'll be their first agenda session public meeting to attend and the council meeting for January Well, the first meeting will be Thursday January the 3rd since we're closed Tuesday January the 1st also for all of our residents and citizens who receive a
 recycling and trash service for those weeks that we will run as scheduled on Monday, December the 24th.
 Then for the remainder of the week the 25th 26 and 27th Everyone service will be delayed by one day It is a holiday in which the recycling division does not work on the holiday of Christmas Day or on the holiday of New Year's Day So for those two weeks if your normal service is Tuesday, it'll be Wednesday if it's Wednesday It'll be Thursday. And if it's Thursday, it'll be Friday for the next two weeks. I
 Can you send me a reminder notice on that, Don? At Monday services, even on the day the city is closed, the 24th, will occur as normal on both Mondays. I do want to remind the public that uses the transfer station that the transfer station is closed to the public on December 24th, 25th, and January 1st, as well as our drop-off and recycling centers are also closed on those days. Okay. Any other announcements? Yes.
 Yes, John. My final time to speak to you on the city council. This is Christmas time. There were shepherds watching their sheep in the fields, and angels appeared to them. And the first words those angels spoke to those shepherds were the last words I want to speak to you. Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth, and goodwill toward men. Thank you. All right. Thank you, John. Anyone else? Yes.
 I want to recognize somebody tonight that we didn't mention tonight It was instrumental in getting a lot of the bond work done the press releases the FOI's Setting up the public meetings the input sessions and citizen surveys and that's Susan Norton All right. I couldn't hardly find the front door without her. So anyway, I
 Of course, there's Patty, the chief of staff, and all the other 800 and whatever staff that we have here. But anyway, thank you all. I wish you all, everyone, a very wonderful holiday season. We're adjourned.