i would like to call to order the city council meeting for december the 20th 2016 to order sondra would you please call the road here Long. Here. Right. Here. Far. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I have a special presentation tonight for Martin W. Schottmeyer Jr. Martin, would you come forward? I have a presentation. We have a plaque we would like to give you on behalf of the city, but I would like to say that Martin, it's been wonderful to work with you because you have always been very thoughtful, very courteous, and you've always treated people like you'd like to be treated, and that was, to me, is exemplary. So I want to thank you for doing that, and it's an honor for me to give you this plaque and your years of service in recognition of your commitment to the citizens of the city of Federal Arkansas 2013 through 2016 with sincere appreciation for your dedicated services and alderman on the Federal City Council, Martin W. Schottmeyer, Jr. All right, it's for you. Thank you very much. I'd like to thank the citizens of Fayetteville for allowing me the opportunity to serve as an alderman in Ward 3. I want to thank each and every one of you for being so professional and friendly to me during my tenure, and I'm a better person having served, and I appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, the next order of business we have tonight is an agenda additions under city council meeting presentation reports discussion items. Justin, I believe you have a resolution for Seven Hills tonight. You'd like to walk on? I would, Mayor, if the council is okay with this. We – listen to a presentation and a discussion from Seven Hills recently. And as many people know, Seven Hills is, I believe, a very, very important part of our city. And it's very important to have this facility open and running not only as Kit has mentioned a few times that that we have a partnership from a land perspective and and and providing that but also I think we have an obligation to the people who who are less fortunate and Seven Hills has had some There's no question about that, but it looks like now that the right people are in place and the right decisions are being made. And what I wanted to do was just express our support publicly. And it doesn't change what we're necessarily giving them or supporting with them, but coming from a household where my wife is an executive director of a company. Community Foundation, I know that public support, especially when the city stands behind something, can sometimes help in fundraising efforts. It gives people a sense that whatever that particular charitable organization may be is helpful. good enough for the city of Fayetteville to get behind so to speak and so that it must be a place that is doing the right things because up here as the people who hold the purse strings of the city we we make decisions very very seriously on who to support and we do that regularly up here so for us to support uh... the shelter and and this organization i think is very important for them as they go out and fundraise and and get uh... partners community and outside the community to help them so that's why i want to bring this forward for a a public uh... acknowledgement of the city's support uh... of the seven hills mission so that's that's why i want to do that and i want to add uh... would you spend moved to spend the rules places on the agenda since it was not on the agenda before tonight Allen may want to do it first. Justin? I do make that motion, Mayor. Allen? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to put this on the agenda, correct? Yes. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes okay do we have any public comment on this and mr. mayor you ought to probably read the title of the resolution resolution absolutely okay resolution to express the City Council support for seven hills mission to assist the federal homeless population and to request our citizens honor this season of giving with a Generous contribution to seven hills now is there any public comment on this? Yes, please come up. I Mayor, thank you so much. City Council, thank you. I'm so encouraged by the grant that you offered us, but also the alignment between the city and Seven Hills to be able to address this huge social issue. I'm so encouraged. My team is so encouraged, and we really appreciate the vote of confidence by the city. And I'd also like to say thank you to Paul's team and Wade Abernathy and his team. The city has been phenomenal, so thank you so much, and Merry Christmas to everybody. Thank you, Bill. Any other public comment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Is there any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? We need a motion and a second. I apologize. Do we have a motion and a second? Allen. So moved. Justin. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Della, I believe you have... I was just going to say I think this is one of the neatest things that we've done, and I'm just so happy to be a part of it. Thank you so much. Anybody else? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Bennett. Yes. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Pigeon. Yes. Eddie. Okay, I believe, Alan, you have a walk-on as well. Yes, it's the ordinance I just handed out, and I also emailed to everyone this afternoon. So I'm going to walk this on for Kit. He actually has brought this to our attention that there's a law regarding solicitation in the city of Fayetteville that needs to be addressed in order to stay compliant with the law. And I'll let Kit Williams address a little bit of what is in this. Well, this is similar to the last item on your agenda right now where we're changing of the street solicitation ordinance and removing the solicitation part of that because the federal courts have said that of the state. And so this one is similar to that, and I'd ask you to suspend the rules and place it on the very end of new business. So it will follow the other one, and then we can discuss them both together. All right. But we do need a motion and a second to put it on the agenda first. Yeah, suspend the rules and put it on the agenda. Okay. Allen. Make a motion to suspend the rules and place this on the last item of new business. Okay. Justin. I'll second that. Okay. All right. see any discussion on that sandra would you please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes okay we'll hold this to the end of new business do not y'all let me forget to do that also we want to pull item 15 to be amended And we will be doing that before I finish business? That's correct. I didn't read the planning department's memo exactly correctly, so my resolution didn't accurately reflect exactly what they wanted to change in the Master Street Plan. So we have now changed it to be exactly correct. But we can't amend it when it's on consent, so it needs to be removed from consent. and and then we can listen to it and and and amend it to the proper form okay so we need a motion second to pull this item and put it on the well we'll discuss it immediately okay all right or is that no no I got to read the consent and then we discuss you're right mayor we'll discuss it after consent okay everybody got there we have a motion in second correct or do we We ask you can actually, since consent requires unanimous consent, anybody could pull one off. Well, then I will pull it off. Do we need to vote on that? No, you don't have to. All righty then. There. Simple enough. All right. On the consent agenda, number one, approval of the December 6, 2016 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment. Number three. in the amount of $100 representing donation revenue from new seedery to the Federal Fire Department for the annual Employee Service Awards event. Number three. A resolution to authorize acceptance of the 2016 Body Worn Camera Pilot Implementation Program 5050 Matching Grant award in the total amount of $186,496, of which $67,680 will be used by the Federal Police Department with $73,696 to be dispersed to the City of Springdale and $45,120 to Washington County and to approve a budget adjustment. Thank you. Number four, a resolution to authorize acceptance of a non-matching grant from the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program in the amount of $10,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number five, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $63,682, recognizing revenue associated with federal and state law enforcement forfeitures. Number six, a resolution to approve the Eighth Amendment Interlocal Agreement for Jail Services with Washington County, Arkansas, increasing the booking fee from $60 to $62 per prisoner in 2017. Number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $2,515, recognizing donation revenue to the Federal Police Department in support of officer recognition. 8. A resolution to designate the Washington County District Court Federal Department Clerk to be primarily responsible for the collection of fines assessed in this court. 9. A resolution to award bid number 16-50 to authorize contract with Palanto Construction Corporation. Incorporated of Taneytown, Arkansas in the amount of $156,937 for construction of the transportation salt storage facility and to prove a project contingency in the amount of $30,000. Number 10, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $27,167, representing donation revenue to animal services from April through October 2016. Number 11, a resolution to approve a 50-50 cost share agreement with hogwash car wash LLC for construction of a sewer main along a portion of East Hustle Road between South Erica Avenue and South Seven Hills Drive and a total cost of eight thousand two hundred thirty two dollars number twelve a resolution to approve an amendment number five the contract Mitchell Williams selling gates and water PLLC and the amount of twenty thousand dollars for additional legal services related to the White River water quality standards and petition to the Arkansas Pollution Control Ecology Commission to approve a budget adjustment. Number 13, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $5,921, consolidating three project accounts related to the City Hall audiovisual renovation project and approve a change order for accounting purposes. Number 14, a resolution to award bid number 16-63 and to authorize a contract with TNT Incorporated of Van Buren, Arkansas in the amount of $97,560 for construction of an access drive, curb, and gutter and parking improvements at Wilson Park and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $9,756. Number 15 has been pulled. Number 16. A resolution to allow the city attorney, as all other city employees, to have attained their top salary range to receive a one-time service award. I'm going to entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Allen? Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra, would you please call the roll? In it. Okay. Yes. Chantemar. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Finion. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Okay. Now, a resolution to, number 15, a resolution to approve a master street plan amendment to remove a portion of an unnamed, unbuilt proposed collector street from Persimmon Avenue to Holland Drive. Mr. Mayor, I was called to my attention that actually it does not go all the way down to Holland Drive. It goes approximately one-half mile, as shown on Exhibit A of the Planning Department. Only really the title has changed because the body said the same thing. So just we need to have a motion to amend this to the memo, I mean to the resolution that I sent out to you on December 15th. And I have more copies if anybody wants to see them, but it's a pretty minor. Okay. Adela? Adela? I'm ready if we accept that amendment. Sarah? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to accept the amended version. What comments do we have on the amendment? Sarah? I'm sorry. Oh, okay. What public comment do we, Adele, oh, y'all are fooling me here. What public comment do we have on this item, on the amendment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Any final comments before we vote? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Amen. Yes. Dr. Myers. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Perry. Yes. Okay, now we have before you the amended Master Street plan. Who has that from the staff? Eddie Mayer. Okay, this is a request to amend our master street plan relative to a project that's coming through the just recently went through the Planning Commission There's a new subdivision being constructed on the south side of persimmon Drive in West Fayetteville This would amend the master street plan in the area between broils and RuPaul Road Currently there's a collector Street that extends south of persimmon in this area It would cross creek in that area and we feel like that that would not be a another crossing between Ripple and Broyles not warranted in this particular location so we're recommending the master street plan amendment essentially the collector be removed down to approximately half mile as mr. Williams noted on that on the amended resolution we do recommend it remain however to the south of that because we feel future connectivity with the larger 600 acres being developed in this area is necessary and would connect Ruppel and Broyles in a fashion that would serve to move traffic in the area so we're recommending approval as did the Planning Commission. Okay, what questions do we have in City Council for staff on this? Okay, any public comment on this? all right seeing that bring back to the council the emotion a second to pass the resolution adela i may we pass the resolution sir second we have a motion second to pass the resolution any final comments from the council so i'm going to please call the room yes yes yes marsh yes yes eddie yes okay on an unfinished business Number one, a resolution to grant the appeal of Tom Brazell of Legacy Ventures and to approve large-scale development, 16-5488 Macy Drive Town Homes. anything new from the staff on this just a reminder this has been several council meetings tabled several times so this is about six and a half acres that's planned for a multi-family development it is located here off of pine valley subdivision the property in question is this location here it would be accessed through this drive which does only have one egress point out to eventually to shiloh and mount comfort road The item was discussed at the Planning Commission and ultimately was not approved. It was denied. The applicant appealed that decision. It's before you all to approve or agree with the Planning Commission's decision. Staff did recommend approval. We did several analyses on similar subdivisions and also the intersection within this area. We've had the fire marshal visit the site to look at on-street parking and if there were any concerns with the current plan. situation with on street parking there have been stated instances by the public where on street parking is utilized and we hope that it will continue to be utilized because actually acts as a traffic calming measure in this area the streets are relatively wide it was built in a time when we had I think 30 foot wide street sections as our common standard so we believe this would maintaining parking at least on one side would maintain slower speeds in neighborhood I'm staff did recommend approval of the subdivision would not feel like it would compound or create a dangerous traffic condition which is the test that we have for large-scale developments in our Unified Development Code okay Jeremy have any questions for Jeremy on this okay with the applicant lock to address the council Good evening. I think you guys all know me. My name is Tim Bryzell. I'm the developer and applicant on this particular project. I would just like to reiterate what Mr. Pate said. There's been a lot of discussion about this, a lot of it surrounded by the one way in, one way out. We've had all of the emergency responders, all the personnel out there, police chief, fire marshal, staff. Everybody agrees that there is no issue with this particular development and recommends it for approval. That's obviously my position as well. I hope you guys will see it that way. I'm happy to answer any questions, concerns, comments any of you have about this subdivision. do we have any questions mr president yes well i just wanted to say it's more of a comment than anything tim is that out of all the developments that have gone through and ward four and all the developers that i've gotten the privilege of working with and with my constituents you've been so responsive and made yourself so available that i really appreciate that no matter where the vote goes tonight i just wanted to let you know that okay i appreciate it thank you what public comment do we have oh did you have a question i'm sorry i did uh mr president no for jeremy oh i'm sorry did uh if we if if the council um votes to grant the appeal tonight will all the conditions of approval staff recommended be in effect they would so essentially this is the appeal of the planning commission's decision our recommendations would be with the conditions of approval as included in our staff report i know there has been discussion about reducing number of units that is not included in this particular action currently because that's not been formally offered i don't believe by the by the developer so if that is still on the table then that would need to be added as an amended additional condition of approval to reduce the number of units as has been has been discussed in previous meetings but otherwise all other conditions of approval as recommended by staff would go with this project yeah the resolution ends with this approval of subject to the conditions of approval recommended by the Planning Department mr. Brazil then to refresh our memories on what you offer last meeting in terms of reducing the number of units you reduced it from I think at its highest it was 58 units down to 44 Do you accept that as a condition of approval if this is approved tonight? I will add that you might want to amend the resolution to reflect that just at the end of the sentence I just read, including a requirement to build not in excess of 44 units. Does that sound fair, Mr. Brazile? So the amendment would be not to build in excess of 44 units? Yeah, not to build in excess of 44 units. Okay.
 Alan? I'll make the motion to amend the resolution. Okay. Sarah? I'll second that. We have a motion to second. I will take some public comment on the amendment. My name is Robin Byers. I live at the same place I did two weeks ago on Pine Valley Drive. Before you vote on this, I just want you to consider the people who live there. The fire marshal doesn't live there. But the people who live there are people who are in transition. A lot of them, a lot of families, they pick this neighborhood because it's not an apartment neighborhood. It's not a townhouse neighborhood. It's a home neighborhood. And if you... Drive through there, like, on afternoons, there's kids playing basketball in the street. I just feel like, and if you talk to the people who live on Wildwood now, when they're trying to pull out in the morning to get to work, it's already hard to back out onto Wildwood. I can't imagine what it will be like when you add 44 more home residences with maybe, you know, maybe 88 more cars coming down. And if you drive through there, you'll see kids right there on the corner of Glenwood, Glen Meadow, I'm sorry, right there where they're going to be entering and exiting and they're riding their bikes there. They can't do that anymore. It's not that kind of neighborhood anymore. And that's what creates community is neighbors that can play together. We had kids coming to our basketball court that was set out by our tenant. And because of that, I got to know their names. I got to know who their parents were. I mean, that's what creates community. And I just really feel like this might, you know, just destroy... the community that we have in the neighborhood and turn it into something else. And as a, as a homeowner and a landlord, you know, that can affect our value of, you know, our property as well. So I hope you take into consideration the people who actually live there with their kids. This is the best, you know, right now that they can do. This is their, where they live, where they play, where they raise their kids. And we have so much more families living in this neighborhood than when we moved in 17 years ago when there was a lot of college kids renting. And so I really hope that you take that into consideration. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on the amendment? Good evening. My name is Mike Emery. I live in Ward 4, and I lived in Pine Valley on Wildwood up until a month ago when we bought a house and moved on. This location in question is a prime spot for construction. There's no argument with that. However, there is an issue, like they said, with it being a one way in, one way out neighborhood. On street parking is a problem, especially like she was saying along Wildwood. It turns them into some blind corners when you're coming in and out especially. So it's like with the kids playing in there and you're adding 44 more houses worth of traffic, it's just gonna get even worse. Again with the one way in one way out is emergency services say the low water bridge on Shiloh It gets flooded out or house fire or for example the gas fire we had in Farmington over the weekend It would be difficult for emergency services to get in to some of these areas if that were to happen I've read also the the appeal and I disagree with the finding on Mount Comfort and Shiloh intersection being adequate for that extra traffic and That's a lot of traffic that goes through there. I go through there daily and don't see it in the same light as they do. For example, during early morning rush, Mount Comfort is in essence reduced to one lane road. Eastbound Mount Comfort traffic going on to 49 South uses the right lane while 49 North and Porter Road take the left lane. Backups there at that time are already heavy, especially during university classes when they're in session. Additional traffic coming out of Pine Valley at the Shiloh intersection would add to the congestion at the intersection and the I-49 intersections. And access to this proposed development from Mount Comfort would allow more time for that traffic to merge into the lanes they would need to go to and avoid the bottlenecking that we're already seeing up there. Along with all the residences, you've got several businesses in there. Acumen Northwest Arkansas Sign Shop, Acme Janitorial, Terminix, Wild Hearts. GTS KMS keep in mind and you can see them on these on the picture acumen and KMS use Tractor trailers and semis and there are oftentimes Shiloh is blocked when they're unloading and unloading in there So I would urge you all to vote against this plan as proposed I would only support it if there was access on to Mount comfort to allow for this extra traffic coming in I would also like to know if this plan is approved in whatever form and that we get the timing looked at on the lights at Shiloh and Mount Comfort, as well as the I-49 interchange. There's a lot of traffic that comes through there. One just has to look at the intersection of Salem and Mount Comfort every morning to witness the traffic that comes down from Howard-Nickel Road and 112. It's not just the residents who are using this road as an access point. Thank you, Mike. Who else would like to address this on the amendment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Chief Dayringer, could I ask you a question before we get too far into this? I know that you all went out and looked at that. Do you see any issues with getting an emergency vehicle in and out of there? Well, there's no code issues with the development. The fire marshal assured me that the streets were wide enough for us to get in and out of there because they're mostly 30 feet wide, which is actually wider than the – than a lot of other places in the city i'll just put it like that so we're comfortable that we can get around in that development yes sir okay do you all have any other questions for the chief yes al Chief, I had one question I wanted to ask on the record tonight. So in this neighborhood, it's kind of like a honeycomb. You know, it curves, and it's one big circle, a lot of streets connecting in between, and there's a lot of different turning radiuses and cars parked on the streets close to those turning radiuses. Do you think an engine could get through there at one of the turns in the neighborhood close to where the cars are parked on both sides? I think if there was a problem with it, that the fire marshal would have told me that. So, you know, there may be a problem here or there with the turning radius, but nothing we couldn't overcome. Okay. Thank you. Okay. All right. We have the amendment. Council, before you, do we have a motion? We do have a motion to second the FASTA amendment. All right. Any other comments on it? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? yes yes yes yes yes yes okay now we're back to the amended resolution okay as a whole i'm going to take what discussion do we have any questions on this council i'm going to open it up for public comment on the amended resolution y'all got anything anybody have anything else they want to add my name is todd walters i'm also ward 4 resident lived here in for about three years currently there's approximately 164 residences in this area i know some people have one car some people have maximum of four cars you see people parking in their yards to avoid parking you know on the corner and turning it into ultimately a one-lane road but uh you know average two cars per resident you already have 328 cars utilizing the one-way in one-way out access road not only that but it's so frustrating with the trucks coming and going out of vacuuming brands their their corporate offices are there so you have all of their employees coming and going for you know when they get there in the morning lunch breaks and the evening The pictures I've seen, they've all been taken during the day. If you go in there and if the fire marshal will go in there during the night when people are home, they will see that people are parked on both sides of the roads, ultimately turning it into a one-lane street. Now, where Alderman Long was talking about the radiuses, that's going to be an issue when people are parked on both sides of the street, which they are currently allowed to do. So that's really something I think that you guys need to consider. Just because the fire marshal didn't see any issues in the daytime when there aren't a lot of people there, someone needs to maybe look at it in the evening when most people are home. Not only that, I moved there in 2013. And when I moved in in 2013, I started reporting parking violations to the Fayetteville Police Department. A lot of times they would come out, knock on people's doors, have them move, no problem. But a lot of times, you know, the police department's too busy to address minor things like that. So it causes traffic hazards, causes blind intersections, people whipping around a corner where they're blocked by the park traffic on the street and whipping around to another corner that's blind. I mean, if I had the map, you'd see it's an immediate blind corner to a blind corner to get to the area that they're talking about building this subdivision. That's just all I have on that. All right. Again, the semi-trucks in and out, one-lane vehicles when both are parked on the street. Yeah, that's all I got here. Thank you, Tom. Anyone else? Okay, let me ask the staff a question. Did you all go out at any time in the evening and look at the area? The fire marshal went out there at 5.45 p.m. and was there until about 6.30 p.m. measuring the streets. So it was that time of day. Okay, all right. All right, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What comments do we have in the council or we're gonna need a motion and a second to grant the appeal or Alan? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And after thinking about this a lot, and I reached out to someone else, Mike, that lived in the neighborhood. I knew he had lived there, so I emailed him today to get another perspective. And it's kind of what I was looking for, is to build as much consensus or find out that there was none through this process. And what I found is that one way in and one way out in a neighborhood this size and a really eventually will be connected to Mount Comfort, I think, but not until the economic barrier of building that connection is met. I just, I don't, I don't think that we can make this work in this neighborhood at this time. I hope that after the connection to Mount Comfort is made, if it doesn't pass tonight, I hope that Tim, I hope you bring this back, and I will be happy to vote for it at that time. But I won't be able to tonight just because of the safety issues in my mind and from having spent a good deal of time in the neighborhood walking through and seeing cars parked on the street. i just can't vote for it um you know i've been one of those people who at four o'clock in the morning was woken up by the fire department at my house and that's that's something that's very real to me and i have to respect that and um like i said after the connections made to mount comfort please bring it back thank you okay thank you thank you mayor um i've also done a lot of thinking about this and what struck me was something we heard last time um which was that there hadn't been any significant accidents reported in the neighborhood since it had been built, which says to me that the data supports the notion that the streets are very safe for traffic, even if there are some perceived issues with it. Last time I said that I thought that just like Alderman Long started out our conversation today, that I thought the developer had been concerned. magnanimous with his application, particularly with the reduction and agreeing to all the conditions that the staff has put forward. Usually we see a lot more haggling about things like that and we didn't see that kind of bullish attitude in this case. But far more important than that to me is the fact that is what we've heard from our fire department, police department, and from the accident reports. And so I'm going to rely on the historical data to make my judgment about the safety. Okay. Anyone else? Well, we need either a motion and a second. Sarah? I move we approve the resolution. Adele? I second the motion. All right. Any discussion on it? Okay. Summer, would you please call the roll? Bennett? Yes. Stoutmar? Yes. Long? No. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Eddy? Yes. Resolution passed. All right. Number two. In order to amend 33.350, purpose and establishment, and 33.351, composition of Article 23, active transportation advisory committee of the Federal City Code to expand the scope of the of the committee's duties and to recommend that the city council appointee should also serve on the transportation committee and to establish a time for the election of the committee chair i will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading sarah um i would like to amend do i need to amend first or do we need to go to the third and final if we don't go if we don't make a motion and suspend the rules then kit reads the whole thing well she she can actually make a motion to amend if you if you want to do that Okay. During the discussions in our committee, we saw some opportunities to improve the language in section 3. And Kit, have you emailed this to everyone or do you just I have it? oh i'm i'm not sure i have to look back at my records here okay well the amended item number three would read major sidewalk projects trails and the active transportation component of the projects where major changes to existing street cross sections are planned said review will be at the preliminary stage and will include typical cross sections and preliminary horizontal and vertical alignments so i would like that was i i actually did not do that blake did that but i'm sure he emailed everybody out that language So I would like to move that we amend to include, to substitute that number three for the previous one. Okay. Do we have a second on that? Justin? I'll second it. All right. All right. What discussion do we have on the amendment? It's straight up and down, isn't it, really? Yeah. Okay, what public comment do we have on the amendment? See, now I'll bring it back to the council. Any final comments on that? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And now, Mr. Mayor, as you said, the motion to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading would be appropriate. Okay. Sarah? So moved. We have a second. Okay. Please don't make me read this. I'll second that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance amend section 33.350 purpose and establishment and section 33.351 composition of article 23 active transportation advisory committee of the Fayetteville City code to expand the scope of the committee's duties. to recommend that the city council appointee should also serve on the transportation committee and to establish a time for the election of the committee chair. So this is now on its third and final reading as amended tonight. Okay. Sarah. Thank you. Um, our, the active transportation committee, um, is comprised of a group with a lot of expertise in active transportation and that are frequent trail and sidewalk users and we've We've noticed that in trying to fulfill the committee's duties that we have not been as effective as we could be if we were to see projects earlier in the design process. Right now we feel like we've been seeing a lot of projects that are pretty far along, and in order to make changes it would be costly and eat up a lot of staff time, whereas we want to see the projects earlier on and have the opportunity to give constructive feedback on, before there's a lot of design time spent on the project we think that this will yield a much better output for the city as a whole and so that's why we're bringing this forward okay Matthew thank you Alderman Marsh I'm wondering if you could be a little more specific about the projects that have generated this ordinance We just saw the new bike lanes that were added to, I'm trying to think of the road just north of Township. Is that... No. No. Sun Bridge and then you know and that was when it was just about ready to be painted. There was the climbing lane that was added on Cleveland that again you know they showed us right before it was about to be paved and then the sidewalk improvements that were planned for North College and then the ones where they went to South School. We were just kind of getting it at the end of the design process and we felt like you you know, we either have to give it an up or down vote, when in actuality we would rather have the opportunity to give feedback earlier in the project to make that a more successful project. Mark? I've got to say whenever we've had a discussion in the nominating committee and people have come through, we've heard this discussion with people that have reapplied to be back on the committee because they feel like that they have an opportunity to be a voice but they don't have the opportunity to be a voice in a timely manner and so they feel like that really it's a You know, they have the opportunity to look, but they really don't have the opportunity to study the issues in a timely manner. And since we do take our advisory committees very seriously, and we do want everyone to feel like that their participation in an advisory committee such as this is valid and valuable, I'm certainly supportive of this. And this is one of the few committees where we've heard time and again when people come through in their interviews and said, you know, I wish we had more time to look at what was happening. We're rushing through things. We're not informed. And so this gives the opportunity for more information and more discussion in an advisory committee that we're asking citizens to be active on. So that's why I'm supporting this. Okay. Alan. Hi. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I am generally supportive of the Disordinates the one question I do have is in section to a says one voting member of the committee shall be a member of the City Council and and it's recommended that this person also serve on the Transportation Committee. And that gets into a little bit of how the mayor does his appointments. Yes, it does. And so I guess I would like for this ordinance to be considered for its own merits and not interfere in any way in how the mayor makes his committee appointments. So I can support this, but I would like to see that last sentence removed from the ordinance. Yes. Well, you know, we just included that as a recommendation. We feel like we're lacking the continuity between the Active Transportation Committee and the Regular Transportation Committee. And as a consequence, you know, there's a breakdown in communication. And again, we feel like we're getting behind on projects because we are not seeing everything that comes through whereas if there were that liaison between the committee's we feel like we would be more effective and so we've included it as a recommendation because we know that that's not always optimal or possible but where possible we would like that to happen but it's just a recommendation it's not a binding requirement I think that from my experience at least and please tell me if i'm wrong but when the city council officially recommends something generally the administration follows that recommendation when it's in a resolution so i'm going to make a motion to remove the last sentence and be supportive of the ordinance if that amendment passes okay sir matthew um well hang on you made a motion i apologize is there a second Yeah, I'll second the motion, but I don't want to indicate yet that I saw some other questions about the ordinance as a whole. Okay, we have a motion to second. So you would strike, read me the last sentence, would you, Alan? The sentence that says it is recommended that this person also serve on the Transportation Committee. Okay. Just from a, you know, right now we're in the process of putting our committees together, and I make the appointments on those committees, so... the council always just sets up the committees and then I go along with however you ever y'all want to set up your committees and then I point accordingly now if you you know but I don't know how you would you know I try to create a balance of four and we you know if if you vote to add five to the Transportation Committee or either i'm going to have to take somebody off transportation committee and or i'm going to have to scramble everything which creates a little bit of a it can be a little bit of a challenge so right now we're in the middle of these committees and however you all want to set it up i'm good with it i just just let me know what you want to do and away we go otherwise we'll leave it as it is Mayor, I just want to remind the council that actually your other rules and order actually set your committees for transportation. So what this would in fact do is that someone would have to serve a dual role if you did that recommendation, meaning that it wouldn't be a fifth member on transportation because that's set also by ordinance. One of the appointed four would be appointed to the active transportation committee as its member rather than today. It is a fifth member. There's not a duplicate appointment. So that's how the change would be. Yeah, or you've got to reverse it. So I'm just saying that because I don't want there to be an expectation that there would be five. The committee remains at four, and one of the four would be appointed to active transportation. So I either got to take one off the Transportation Committee and put the council member that's on the board. Active transportation or I got to take somebody off Transportation committee and put them on the active transportation and transportation committee because we're working with force But Sarah um and the committee understands that there may need to be some shuffling but really our intent was to have someone advocating for active transportation concerns on the transportation committee someone that is tied to that committee because the reality is is that we don't have two separate transportation systems it's all about transportation and We need the committees talking to each other, not operating in separate bubbles. They need to be coordinating together to optimize the result for our city. and it just seems like there has been a lack of good communication flow just based on the structure of the committee's and we want to see more advocacy for active transportation on the Transportation Committee and we want to have more information about what's happening on the Transportation Committee in the active Transportation Committee to allow us to all do our jobs better and serve the public better. Okay, Alan. So just to clarify, maybe some things have changed because I chaired the active transportation at one time, my first year on the council and I'm on the transportation committee now. But at the time we had the same staff members for active transportation as we do on transportation. Is that not the same? Chris, you weren't on active transportation at the time. I don't believe. I believe it was Terry and Matt. Right. It's essentially the same staff members. I do attend at times. Matt Mihaljevic is the actual staff member, and Terry Gulley usually is there as well. And I guess the other thing to say about this is the recommendations, the way the ordinance is set up, the recommendations flow from the Active Transportation Committee to the Transportation Committee. So staff would take whatever those recommendations are, put them on the agenda for the Transportation Committee, and present those. So it would flow okay from a staff level. It's just the question about the council liaison. Thanks. I guess the way that I look at this and the way that I think we're making it more complicated than... It's not five, it's one of the four that are currently on the committee but also serve on the active transportation committee. And I think that this is a guarantee, again, if we're going to ask citizens, many of them that have expertise and experience to bring advice and advisory committee, it gives them a little bit more of an opportunity to be active. in this by whole I'll development our city we talk about active trash transportation and alternative transportation and transportation at this point is probably the most vital mover interest and development and in economic development as well as in residential and business development and so when I looked at this and I talked About this with with some folks as they came through the nominating committee. They do feel disenfranchised and disconnected And so this seems to make a connection that we currently don't have and I don't think that it's anything That's tough or more complicated. It's if you're going to be One of the four on the Transportation Committee and willing also to be on the active transportation committee, then there's going to be a bridge of communication that currently is not guaranteed that is going to make the... active transportation committee more vital in the conversations that we're having. And we might need to see this in some of our other committees too, something that we have to think about as we move forward, because if we're going to have an engaged community, Fayetteville is certainly an engaged community with a lot of commissions, boards, and advisory committees. And if we're going to ask someone to take their valuable time to be on an advisory committee, then we need to be sure that they have a good time. the correct platform and the correct communication channels in order to be heard and in order to be heard timely. And so that's why I see that this is a valuable step in this very important committee. I don't think it's more complicated. I don't think it's adding additional components. twists to our current setup of our committee structure for city council members is just adding an opportunity for our communication channel over to a citizen advisory committee that when we are recruiting for this committee and we're interviewing and we're asking people for their advice, that we see that their advice is valid and that they have the information that they need so that they... can make a valid contribution to the community that they've decided to be engaged as a member of this committee. So that's why I'm supportive of it is, and I'm supportive as it is written by Alderwoman Marsh. So that's just how I'm looking at this. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to make a comment. This discussion originally came up and I think also sent a message to me as your chief of staff. The first message that I took from it is this committee needs to see items earlier. So what typically happens is we put together the road overlay and sidewalk plan and then we go through the committee structure and so a lot of the work has already been developed through input by you all input by citizens every single project that comes to the city is put down on a list and then we ask you offer priorities and then we kind of piece together with the money to come up with a plan and the money being that alderman petty as the chair of the Transportation Committee this year asked us to look at citizen service, connectivity of gaps, walkability to schools. And so we set our priorities related to that. I think in order for this committee to be even more effective, they need to be a part on the front end of that dialogue because it's an advisory committee. And the thing that we want to be clear to the citizens about is that this is not an approval committee. It's an advisory committee. And that's the one thing that sometimes people feel like that they can stop a project or start a project. Right. that committee alone and what we do is bring that advice to you because you're also going to get advice from the staff in our plan that has been reviewed by with the mayor and then the council makes a decision the transportation committee and then ultimately the city council so i will say to you regardless of what you do with this ordinance and we don't see a problem changing it and we don't see a problem keeping the same whatever you decide at your committees but we are committing to start this earlier and have it be an input point in terms of an advisory aspect as opposed to kind of the final plan review because the council gets it from a final plan review and we've gotten tremendous feedback I don't know I'm sure you all seen emails from citizens like Jerry Bailey and I use him as an example because he's fantastic at sending us sidewalk problems around the city and We encouraged him to apply for this committee because I think getting that input on the front end early would be helpful. So what I wanted to make sure is that when you talk about this, that the scope – It's clear that it remains advisory because I think that there's maybe some members who would like to be in an approval authority, and the only people elected to be approvers are those of you sitting up here. And then so even when we get that advice, you still might at times see something different from staff if they don't agree or we don't have the budget for it. But we're also committed, Alderman Marsh said, to get these to you all a lot earlier regardless of where this conversation goes because i think what happens is everything hits in november december when we're about to bring it to the council and when reality is we should start some of these conversations about design between february and october when we're going to bring the actual plan design through and that's a change we're just going to make internally right and i can do it either way you all want to go i can either move one from transportation to active transportation or one from active transportation to transportation. Okay, Adele. As I'm listening, I'm thinking about the fact that all of our committees are open, and we have lots of folks who attend the transportation committee from time to time. And so it seems to me that, you know, I... that rather than come forward with a complete new ordinance, we could just, maybe the transportation advisory group could just decide that there would always be someone attending the transportation committee, and then they will know exactly what's happening. And I think also in defense of our chair and our committee, I think if that advisory committee had been attending, they would be recognizing that many of the things they want are things that we have fought for. We have realized they're very important, and we fought for them, but we can't always get everything that we want. We have a lot of other things. As our chief of staff has said, we have money, we have... the State Highway Department we have a lot of other things that make an impact on what we do so I would just I would certainly be open to having advisory as many advisory folks who want to attend to attend and then they'll know exactly where we are what we're thinking and what we fought for Sarah. I would just like to point out that every one of us are on a great number of committees already. And the idea that we're going to go to yet an extra committee when we're already working a considerable amount of hours at this job and have other jobs besides that is asking a bit much. And so I think that adding an extra duty to a council member um especially when it's unnecessary when we could just better coordinate the committee allocations it just seems it's just one more thing that we have to do and it's a lot of work already so i guess i'll just leave it there but the other issue is that the few times that i have attended the transportation committee um i you know we get seated in the public not at the table we are allowed to make one comment just like the public are and so there's not a real opportunity to interact and engage in the committee in the same way that a member of the committee would when instead you're just a regular attendee in the audience okay adela Yes, I guess I was misunderstood. I meant one of anyone of the commission members could attend the transportation committee, not necessarily a council member. And that way they could take that information back to the commission. Thank you. Okay. All right. Have I taken public comment on this? Anyone like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Thank you. We're on the third and final reading. Any final comments from the council? We actually have a motion to amend. Sorry. Sorry. Yes, I lose track of things. That's right, Alan. You were striking the last sentence. All right. Any other discussion on the amendment? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? I'm sorry, but this is just a vote to strike the last sentence, not the overall. Right, right, right. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Yes. Okay, that amendment did pass like the first one. Okay. So now we have the amended ordinance. What discussion do we have on that? Matthew. Yes, Mayor. I have a question about how this might work procedurally. the language isn't quite clear to me would this require preliminary review by the committee for all sidewalk projects on street bicycle facilities etc yes all major I believe we include major sidewalk projects trails and active transportation components. So what does that mean major? We did not want to set a threshold, but it's when in talking with staff It was things that we're planning in advance And that they're going to be spending design time on not necessarily just Standard things where they're going to refer to your standard street section but these are things that I and maybe maybe matt can explain this better than i can i'm sure yeah mayor counsel um matt mahalavis trails coordinator um yeah what we had discussed during the meeting was that the a lot of our projects that we do in-house aren't going to have design plans that we would be able to present so we didn't really want to have to go through those steps of coming up with those plans just to show where you know they're going to be smaller sidewalk replacements things like that that just I'm not going to be at that level so that was sort of the threshold to major we felt like it was going to have a design plan that we would have to show how often does the active transportation committee meet monthly we were meeting every other month but we had so much business that our meetings were running three and four hours and so we're now convening monthly okay So Mr. Mihaljevic's answer addressed a little bit of my concerns, but not all the way. i still have uh procedural concerns about how this might slow down down projects but you know as i say this i want to be really careful because um i think it's not just active transportation committee but also frankly the transportation the city council transportation committee and the planning commission have experienced the same frustrations about certain major projects um as the active transportation advisory committee has um so i want to be careful and clear to acknowledge that that frustration is valid. And in my opinion, I think the administration has heard us about that and is taking steps to address that actively as they look forward to how they're doing these things in 2017 and beyond. you know i i tend to agree instinctually with um with with what uh with a point that uh alderman gray made which is that if i could if i could say it in my own words would be um at transportation committee that's where uh the decisions get made um because we're we're the elected representatives and we're tasked with doing that and uh most of our meetings are uh poorly attended And to be fair, most of the business that we're dealing with is highly technical or contractual or so on and so forth. I mean, very bureaucratic. But whenever we're talking about cross sections, I think that's when you'll see not just the committee members but the members of the public who are also in attendance. That's where everybody participates in a more robust discussion. And I think that anybody who studies... what the transportation committee has done especially over the last couple of years would see that In some ways, we've done a very good job of pushing boundaries and comfort levels. Both of the agencies that we collaborate with that aren't the city, whether that's the Highway and Transportation Department or the university, or whether it's our own departments where we're trying to change the standards that we have. And what we've seen as a result of that pushing has been – major updates to our minimum street standards and transportation master plan that's underway that's going to result in even more significant updates and what makes me a little skeptical I guess of this ordinance even though I understand the intent and Again, I want to be really clear about acknowledging the underlying frustration but what makes me skeptical is that a lot of the changes that are we've seen or that we're anticipating coming in the next year aren't on the books yet. And so whenever we look at projects like bike lanes on Sunbridge or a climbing lane on Cleveland, we're seeing the last grouping of projects get built that are for the most part on the old standards or that are ad hoc. And I'm optimistic and I really believe that As we continue to move forward in time, the successes that we've had at the policy level with the committee are going to result in better projects that any member who cares about, any citizen who cares about active transportation is going to be more proud of. So all this is to say I'm not certain how I feel about this right now. I think that my instinct says this is a little bit of a broad brush and that this may have some procedural issues. And I certainly do believe that getting this input at the Transportation Committee would be more effective. I've talked to lots of past members and current members of the Active Transportation Committee. Some people in the past have told me they think that we should do away with the committee, that they'd rather be at transportation with us. I've heard from people, they say, in the past about other committees, and I tend to agree with this, that the makeup should probably be looked at a little bit more closely. Our citizen committees, by and large, should be free to discuss things, sometimes without influence from staff or from aldermen that might be on the committee. I'm not saying that's happening here, but I am saying that there might be a better way procedurally to accomplish what's being sought after right now. Okay. Now, if staff understands that there's a clear line between what they need to bring to ATAC and what they don't, And if they agree that these major projects are going to take so much design time anyway that this doesn't compound the process, then by all means, there's nothing wrong procedurally. But if there's at all confusion about where that line gets drawn, then my instinct says to me we should look at accomplishing this goal in another way. So Mr. Mihaljevic's answer got to that point a little bit, but I still don't feel personally like we have clarity on that specific question from staff. So if we can get that, if staff has clarity on it, you know, I'd love to hear it. If we don't, then we should, in my opinion, continue this conversation about how we can get that kind of clarity. Anybody else? Okay, I suppose we're ready to vote. Can I ask specifically, can I ask, does staff, whether it's trails or engineering or the chief of staff, does staff have clarity on where that line is? I guess just kind of in general, we modeled this ordinance after some of the language in the Transportation Committee ordinance. just to and you know one of the things that i think got taken out was at the discretion of the administration because there were there are times when we feel like we need to bring things to the transportation committee and that you know we do we do use our discretion as we discussed the transportation committee the responsibility on detailed design is the the staff and the administration and not on the city council that you're more of the policy body but sometimes we do need guidance for things and so we make those decisions as to when we need guidance from the committee and or from the public you know in order to create a public forum so we can discuss these types of things So it's it's used that the Transportation Committee has been used as kind of a sounding board and a public forum in many cases In in my mind the active Transportation Committee could be kind of similar to that for more different types of projects active transportation sidewalks trails that sort of thing and I I think in looking at the committee makeup of the Active Transportation Advisory Committee, there are many people on there who have a passion and a knowledge for these types of projects that I think can be beneficial in some cases. It could be situations where we do have to back up a month. It takes us another month to get through a process. And so that is a concern obviously from from a staff standpoint making sure that we can get projects moving forward in a timely manner But I also think it can be beneficial and I don't think I've answered your question But I hope I provided you some information It it really is an opportunity that it can be beneficial to a project in many cases and But again, it can slow things down unnecessarily if we have to bring everything through all of these committees. So I think like what Matt said, there are some very simple projects that are no-brainers. There's no reason to consider the design. It's just a new sidewalk. or a sidewalk replacement, that sort of thing. So those aren't really necessary. So I think that key item, the discretion of the administration, is really something to be considered. Thank you. I want to add on to that because this last year, the sidewalk plan actually worked the way that it probably should have. We started earlier with the Active Transportation Committee. They made their recommendations and did their own. And if you'll recall, you received the entire list of every request that had come in from citizens. You received their advisory list of what should be a priority. And then you received the staff's plan, which in this particular case... lined up fairly well with what the active transportation wanted. There might have been a street or two that was maybe not as high within their plan that was in ours simply because we were matching funding and time where they're looking at just the projects from a design perspective. So I think the key thing is that, again, it's our job as staff to manage if we feel like We say this to committees all the time, we're not going to necessarily hold it up for you to give us a piece of advice. This is when it's going to the council, this is the meeting that's going to be on, and then they choose to act or not act. And if they don't, then we continue to move forward. So we're also hearing you say we don't want any process of the advisory process. process to actually be holding a project captive by saying we need to continue to do this. That has happened in environmental actions. We have moved things forward even though people have wanted to continue to maybe debate them because they were coming to you. It's happened in active transportation. It happens in several of your committees. So, you know, we've We're not necessarily getting into this definition of what's major and what isn't. I mean, what we're hearing is they want to be involved in projects that are considered transportation in nature, which could be trails, it could be sidewalks, it could be road and bike design. And we will be clear about what timetable we bring to the Transportation Committee. And if something... is time sensitive where we can't get it to them early enough, then we'll also commit to make sure they know so they can come to the Transportation Committee to provide that feedback to you if we have to bypass it. The ordinance has been written to really try to incorporate what we hear that you want to have worked. So as staff members, it's our job to manage and make sure it doesn't get captive in an advisory committee. good thank you all right sure um you know the reason that we are doing this ordinance is um if you walk or ride your bike around our town you realize that the state of our active transportation infrastructure is nowhere near where what it needs to be and it's dangerous in places it's impassable for people with disabilities and we have some some major challenges with that and meanwhile our 2030 city plan goal of we will grow a livable transportation network is it's a high priority for our citizens and I think that's what we're hearing in the mobility plan as well and so our committee you know we put our heads together and we said well this is one way that costs the city absolutely nothing that we can try to improve our internal processes so that we deliver a better result to our citizens. And so that's what this is about. It's about all of these experts and active transportation users at the committee level saying how can we be more effective and give better results. And so we say, okay, we would like information about projects earlier so that we're not delaying things and we're not causing changes. We decided to strike the part about being at the discretion of the current administration, because while this current administration has been very cooperative with our needs, who's to say that future administrations will be the same? And so this is, you know, this is laws on the books until it's changed, and so we wanted to make sure that it was clear that if we're going to be making any kind of major improvements, and again, the word major is ambiguous, but I think we have good communication with the staff in order to tell us what's major and what's not. And really we said, you know, we don't want to be holding up the process, we don't want to cause you to have to create drawings that you wouldn't ordinarily create, but we want to be involved in the decision-making process earlier on so that we can give better advice, so that we can improve this process, and so that we can deliver that livable transportation network that our citizens are asking for. And so this was our no-cost solution for that. mark bottom line i want to reiterate what sarah said but without going through it and this is not an attempt to any way hijack anything that's done by the transportation committee this is to give a an opportunity for better communication with a communication channel that is open and recognized to an advisory committee if you see the applicants that we have that come through the nominating committee that are interested and the expertise that they bring, there is no reason that we should not validate that individual, validate their activity by passing this so that we show them the respect and the validity for what they are bringing to the Transportation Committee. It's evident. Again, as we see individuals that apply for this committee, and there's always many more that apply than we can put on the committee, it's evident that there is such a passion for the development of our transportation network in a responsible way with a lot of folks, with a lot of daily users that use it, and a lot of individuals that have expertise professionally. And so I guess when I saw that Sarah did this, I saw that this was a recognition of a need in this specific committee because it is such an important part of the growth of our city as we move forward, and it's such a valuable and valid group of individuals that we have in this committee. So in order to validate the input, I'm going to support this. because I think it does validate the activity that we see on this very important and very vital citizen advisory committee. And there is never any time that when a person comes and applies for these committees that they're told that they have any authority other than that of advice. We always say this is an advisory committee, but also I want to – to validate the fact that we're out actively recruiting and offering opportunities for folks to come by and give some input. So that's why I'm supporting this. Okay, anybody else? All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Janet? No. Chapman? No. Yes. Grimes? No. Yes. Yes. Terry? Yes. Yes. Mayor, that's four affirmative votes. It requires five. You don't choose to vote? No, I'm not going to vote. Okay. Well, with that, then, it requires five affirmative votes in order to pass, so this ordinance failed. Okay. Number three, an ordinance to approve Vacation 16-5582, submitted by Andrea Perney, to vacate the unbuilt Pike Street right of way between Highland and Pappard Avenue. i can go ahead and read it if you don't want to spend the rules uh thank you promotion spend the rules and go to the next reading alan second that we have a motion a second to go to the second reading so would you please call the row yes yes yes yes yes yes yes And ordinance to approve the AC 16-5582 submitted by Andrea Fornay to vacate the unbuilt Pike Street right-of-way between Highland and Pollard Avenue. Okay. And I think the applicant is here. Yes. Anything new from staff? No, sir. Okay. Andrea? I'm Andrea Fornay. This is Mona Jones, my partner in Donor Properties, and we're both Ward 2 members. And we have talked to Sarah. Last time we were here, she hadn't had a chance to go look at it. And then, I don't know if all of you have seen it or been, but we sent aerial photos and photos and then to show you the terrain and what's there. We also got a letter from Tom Heacock. He doesn't really get out much, but he is the guy that owns the property right adjacent to the Pike Street and has been there 42 years, I think. But we just wanted to open up if you guys had any questions after we had sent you your information and wanted to get you any feedback or anything we could follow up with. Do we have any questions? Anybody good? All right. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. Now. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Adele. I second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please go? Yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, and orange approved the AC 16 dash 55 82 submitted by Andrea for nay to vacate the unbuilt Pike Street Right-of-way between Highland and Pollard Avenue, okay Adele All right. Any final comments from the council? Okay, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Under new business, number one, a resolution to award RFP number 16-08 an authorized contract with ACS Playground Adventures Incorporated in the amount of $506,500 for the demolition and removal of old playground equipment and installation of new playground equipment including the David LaBiari, Music Playground at Wilson Park, and to approve Project Tennessee in the amount of $50,650. Kent? Sorry, that's a resolution. It's a resolution, so yeah. Yes. Kent? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Surprise. Bear with me just a second. I've got a number of slides that should help you envision what we're looking at here. This is, we're requesting... parks department is requesting approval for a contract with acs playground adventures in the amount of five hundred and six thousand five hundred dollars and a contingency in the amount of fifty thousand six hundred and fifty dollars for a total project cost of 557 150. This will consolidate the two playgrounds that currently exist at Wilson Park. As you can see from this aerial photo, the area encircled by the red and the area far on the right side are two separate playgrounds. One is for youth 2 to 5 and the other for older kids age 5 to 12. This has been a problem, just the location of these two playgrounds has been a problem for parents who have children within both age groups because they are so far apart from each other. It's hard to control kids among the different areas. These playgrounds here are well over 20 years old. They have certainly withstood a lot of great use. As you know, Wilson Park probably ranks up among the most popular parks in the city. It's one of our older, and it is a flagship park, so this is a critical facility. In addition to the active playground, as the mayor mentioned, there will also be a donation that has been awarded to the city for $30,000 for a musical playground. And that comes from local developer Fadal Bayari. This will be the first musical playground not only in Fayetteville but in the state of Arkansas. It was fortunate that we could combine the musical playground with our other more active playground project because it really lets us dedicate that donation, all of that donation, toward musical instruments. A lot of the other site work will be accomplished through the other playground. And just to give you an idea of what we're talking about, the new play equipment is budgeted at $320,500. That's for the active play units themselves. Again, the musical playground is $30,000. Most of the rest of that money is for demolition, removal, and disposal of music. playgrounds and as well as the impact zone and the concrete pads beneath the playgrounds. I'm not really giving you much of a look here. Let me continue to go through there. This is a rendering of the larger playground from one angle, same playground from another angle, and to the left you see the smaller playground for the younger children. Again, another angle. This shows the plan of that facility. This is the same location of the existing larger playground just on the west side of the shelter, the gazebo that's there now. This gives you a little bit of idea of the flavor of the playground. The materials are – much of the materials in the structure will be fiberglass reinforced concrete and coated steel. It will be very durable, hopefully to withstand at least another 20 years and probably much longer. This is good commercial grade equipment that's designed and will be built to withstand much use. That just gives you an idea of what it looks like. Assuming favorable weather conditions, the playground is expected to be complete by late spring. We've got a 120-day contract period for this. This will be the first new playground installed in Fayetteville since 2010. Any questions from the council? Do we have any questions for Ken on this? I know that. Any public comment on this? Oops, sorry, Matthew. I see you popped up there. It looks great. I can't wait to see it happen. I did have one request. I know we can't ever trust renderings, but I sure hope we can have more than three benches. Thank you.
 Yeah. Definitely needed. Okay. Now is there any public comment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Now I know Council Member Latour was the one that pulled this from consent. He is not here with... do you all want to wait for him to be here or i will leave that up to you all yes alan um i sat on the selection committee and i think this had a very thorough review so i'll make a motion to pass the resolution okay justin i'll second that okie dokie all right any final comments all right soldier which please call the rope yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes all right number two the orders wave requirements formal competitive bidding and to prove one year contract with belford group with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms to provide online recreation program registration billion reservations to residents and visitors at no cost Whereas the Belford Group was awarded a contract pursuant to RFP 9-9 to provide online recreation program registration and pavilion reservations for the Parks and Recreation Department at no cost to the city, And whereas participants are charged convenience fees for online recreation program registration in the amount set forth in the contract, but always have the option of paper and on-site registration without incurring those convenience fees. And whereas because the City of Fayetteville was the first organization to use the services provided by the Belford Group, the City has never been charged for those services. and whereas other online registration and reservation services are available but all require an initial investment and ongoing transaction fees that would have to be paid by the city now therefore it be ordained by the city council the city of favorable arkansas section one that the city council the city of favorable arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a one-year contract with the belford group with an option renewed for up to four additional one-year terms to provide online recreation program registration and pavilion reservations to fayetteville residents and visitors at no cost to the city a copy of the contract is attached here too made a part here up okay Yes. Thank you, Mayor and City Council. My name is John Crowe, the Recreation Superintendent for the Parks and Rec Department. Very thorough stated. I guess I'm just here just to field any questions if anybody has any on this item. Do we have any questions for John? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? So you know, I'll bring it back to the council. Adele. I move that the Senate rule be held in second reading. Second. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? senate yes yes yes yes marsh yes yes yes yes in order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year contract with the belfry group with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms to provide online recreation program registration and pavilion reservations to residents and visitors at no cost to the city just move to spend the rules go third and final reading now Second motion to second to go to the third and final reading Sandra would you please cover up? Yes Yes, yes Yes, yes, yes And orange to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a one-year Contract with Belford group with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms to provide online recreation program registration and pavilion reservations to residents and visitors at no cost to the city a Okay. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Number three. An ordinance waived the requirements for competitive bidding through 2019 and approved a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $41,505.61 for a stormwater education program for 2017. Kit. Whereas the city of Fayetteville, along with 17 other cities in northwest Arkansas, has been operating under the Environmental Protection Agency's federally mandated Phase II stormwater regulations as a municipal separate storm sewer system, And whereas the Northwest Arkansas Planning Commission has determined that a regional approach to certain minimum control measures required for renewal of the municipal separate storm sewer system permits, specifically public education and outreach, public involvement and participation, and the education component of the pollution prevention good housekeeping, is both logical, cost effective, appropriate, and this approach has been approved by the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality. And whereas the Northwest Arkansas Planning Commission has endorsed a proposal from the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service to design and provide a stormwater education program to all municipal separate storm sewer systems in Northwest Arkansas. And whereas the cost of the agreement to the city for each year exceeds $20,000 and would otherwise require competitive bidding unless the requirement is waived. Mm-hmm. Whereas the city's national pollutant discharge elimination system permit expires in 2019 and the stormwater education program will be a requirement each permit year. Now therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fable, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fable, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical... and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding through 2019 and further authorizes the mayor to sign a memorandum of understanding a copy of which is attached here to it made a part hereof between the city and the northwest arkansas regional planning commission in the amount of $41,505.61 for stormwater education programs to be provided in 2017 by the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service to satisfy portions of the Environmental Protection Agency's Phase II stormwater regulations. All right. That said a lot there. This is a contract we've had for many years through the Regional Planning Commission for educational component of our stormwater permit through ADEQ, the U of A. Extension Service provides the actual work on this. We get a much larger return for our $41,000 investment because cities are able to pool their resources and they can they can do a much better job and educate folks much better just kind of an economy of scale situation. We do have funding available in the stormwater quality management and nutrient reduction plan budget for this item and we request approval. I'll answer any questions. okay we have any questions for chris on this okay do we have any public comment on this all right i'm going to bring it back motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading mark i'll second that we have a motion to second to go to the second reading senator would you please call the row it's okay yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding through 2019 and approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of $41,505.61 for our stormwater education program for 2017. Okay. Motion to go to the third and final reading from anyone? Yes, Mark. I move we go to the third and final reading. Dell. Second, Seth. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, and your nests away the requirements of formal competitive bidding through 2019 and approve a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission in the amount of forty one thousand five hundred and five dollars and sixty one cents for stormwater education program for 2017 and okay mark i just want to say from the water sewer committee standpoint this has always been a good relationship and it's necessary for us to remain remain active in this partnership in order to be approved by adq and epa so from the committee point of view we certainly support this okay any other final comments from the council connor would you please call the roll Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. All right. Number four, an ordinance to amend 39.10 water and wastewater damage claims by enacting a new subsection four to be requirements for proper damage claims to be eligible for compensation. Whereas an unusual situation has occurred in which a landowner invested money to protect its property from damage from a suspected leak from a city water line, and whereas when all usual leak detection methods could not find a leak but water still infiltrated the property owner's building, city crews excavated the water main and finally located a leak in the service line close enough to the water main to still be considered the city's responsibility. And whereas after this line was repaired by the city, the water infiltration problem finally was alleviated. And whereas the property owner should be able to file a claim now and potentially receive compensation not only for the actual property damage, but for at least some of the costs that invested in sump pumps and their installation costs to control the water infiltration into its buildings. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 39.10, Water and Wastewater Damage Claims, by enacting a new subsection B4 as shown below. Section 39.10B4, when a possible water leak claim has been promptly called to the attention of water and sewer staff. who initially could not detect or determine the cause of such leak, which then caused the property owner to invest in sump pumps and or other reasonable measures to protect its property. Compensation for such property damage prevention efforts may be paid pursuant to this article if a compensable water leak is later discovered or confirmed by city staff. I presented this just like I presented the original damage claim about four years ago. I think that those claims, both for wastewater damage claims and other claims, I think have proven to be very effective in creating a much better and more equitable way of handling these claims so that one claim wouldn't be denied for no reason and no one granted. So I think we have a good system up there and it's worked well for four years. We ran into one problem with a Mountain Street building, which had had some water problems, and there's a water main near it, and they started suffering water infiltration even during very, very dry periods of the year. It was very difficult to believe that somehow the water table would come up or something would happen. Our crews went out and investigated, but did not find a leak until finally they went back A few months later, when the leak continued and after the landowner had had to invest in two sump pumps and also in installing those sump pumps in low levels of their building and changing the floor so they would collect the water to the sump pumps and basically had spent a considerable amount of money just to try to protect itself from this water. Our crews went out there and with listening devices they went, uh-oh, I think we might hear the leak. And so they dug up the, you know, they cut up the pavement and dug up the ground and sure enough by the water main, not on the water main itself, but with the service line coming out, which was still our line, they found that there was a small leak there. And they very appropriately immediately fixed the leak Covered up the water main and lo and behold the problems that this property owner had been suffering for a few months ended But when the property owner then thought and submitted a letter saying, you know, I should be compensated for this I looked at our ordinance and our claim section and saw that it only allowed compensation for property damage not for protection efforts and reasonable protection efforts And so I thought, and I talked to the mayor about this, and the mayor thought that it was only fair that in a very unusual situation like this we at least give the administration up to $8,000 and the city council up to $20,000 the discretion about whether or not they felt like this was an appropriate claim to pay. And to do that, we had to change the code section a little bit. That's what I've done here. It made it where there wasn't a 30-day. Normally there's a 30-day window that you've got to file a claim. Well, this time when they made their initial complaint, we said it wasn't a problem. So how could they file a claim when it wasn't our water? And so that really wouldn't be fair to say, well, it started happening more than 30 days ago, so too bad for you. So I changed the ordinance, or I proposed a change in the ordinance that in a very rare circumstance will give the city council the authority to provide compensation if you believe it is proper in a case where someone to prevent property damage has invested in property damage prevention property so that it be, I believe it is more fair to do that, and I hope that you will give yourselves that power with this ordinance. And I'm certainly ready to answer any questions that you might have about this. Yeah, what questions do we have for Ken on this? Matt. It all makes sense, but it does beg the question, can you imagine a circumstance where it may be, um, reasonable and fair to award damages that are greater than 20,000 and if so would you Anticipate that we would change the law at that time Well actually that provisions already in there by a supermajority You can actually go higher than that. I we have never done that to my knowledge. I don't remember ever going above 20, but By supermajority you you can do that. It's already in the code. Thank you Okay Do we have any public comment on this? I'm sorry, was there any other questions for the city attorney? Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, and we'll bring it back to the council. everyone here sorry yes no come on if you want to say something it was our law firm building that had the leak and i appreciate doing the legal work to make this a compensable claim as i understand it's a two-step process hopefully the city board adopts this ordinance and then we resubmit or revalidate the claim we made but there's not an administrative procedure now and i appreciate there being one so we can make the claim The city working with us to resolve what was apparently not a problem. And we, because the water kept coming in all day every day, we had to put in interventional French drains and sump pumps because we couldn't detect where outside of the building was generating, therefore couldn't stop it. Later, the city came back and said, well, it really is us. And by that time, we'd already spent quite a bit of money on those drains to keep our basement dry. And when I say basement, it was finished with carpet, wall coverings, ceiling coverings, lights. We had secretarial stations, files, expensive computers. It was fully functional. It was just below level grade that we were getting water. But I appreciate the proposal. Thank you. Thank you. All right. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Thank you. Adele yes, I proposed we go to the second reading Alan second we have a motion second go to the second reading Sandra would you please call the roll? Yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes And your order to amend section 39 point 1 o water and wastewater damage claims by enacting a new subsection for to be requirements for property damage claims to be eligible for compensation I Okay. I'm going to take a motion to go to the third and final reading. Adela. I move we go to the third and final reading. Allen. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Bennett. Yes. Stuttgart. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Yes. And in order to amend Section 39.10, Water and Wastewater Damage Claims, by enacting a new Subsection 4 to B, Requirements for Property Damage Claims, to be eligible for compensation. Okay. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Kimmins. Yes. Chautemar. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kimmins. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Okay, thank you all number five mayor just for the record and for the public watching this that is only for the water and wastewater Claims it is not for all other claims Because those situations can't really occur in this Process okay number five an ordinance repeal 74.04 hitchhiking prohibited and enacting a new 74.04 standing or walking on a state or federal highway prohibited and to amend 74.05 of the federal code to clarify permit requirements for organizations and individuals who wish to walk or stand within a principal arterial roadway kit Whereas section 7404 hitchhiking prohibited is not needed in the Fayetteville code as Arkansas code annotated 27-51-1205 soliciting rides is perfectly adequate and more and worded more clearly. And whereas replacement for section 7404 standing or walking on a state or federal highway prohibited is needed to protect the health welfare and safety of Fayetteville pedestrians and drivers. And whereas the safety measures for drivers and for persons within the roadway required by Section 7405 have long effectively preserve the health, safety, and welfare of Fayetteville citizens and any persons within the roadway entering or standing within an arterial roadway for a charitable organization or otherwise, and whereas these safety measures should be clarified to better conform with recent federal court decisions and should also be applied to any individual who may wish to enter or remain within an arterial roadway for the individual's own purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1... That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 7404, Hitchhiking Prohibited, and enact a new Section 74.04, Standing or Walking on State or Federal Highway Prohibited, as shown below. Section 74, Standing or Walking on a State or Federal Highway Prohibited, Subsection A. Standing within the roadway of a state or federal highway, including within any intersection roadway, within 100 feet of the highway, and within the roadway or shoulder of any on or off ramp of an interstate highway, is prohibited. walking within the roadway of a state or federal highway, within any intersecting roadway within 100 feet of the highway, and within the roadway of any on or off ramp of interstate highway outside a legally established crosswalk or trail crossing is prohibited. Subsection C, police, firefighters, emergency personnel, and other authorized and governmental maintenance workers are exempt from this section while performing official duties. and section two that the city council the city of faber walks are hereby amend section 7405 by repealing the current 7405 and enacting a slightly amended replacement section 7405 standing or walking within the roadway of principal arterials prohibited unless permit granted as shown on exhibit a i brought this forward because attending seminars from the International Municipal Lawyers Association and then also from the Arkansas City Attorneys Association. We have been discussing the evolving law surrounding cities' attempts to regulate panhandling or begging or anything like that and what the courts have been holding on this. And recently, the courts have been saying that begging or panhandling is protected First Amendment speech. Anytime you try to regulate a protected First Amendment speech, it is almost impossible to have a regulation that will pass constitutional muster. Basically, the Supreme Court has placed tests which are just impossible to comply with. You cannot do it. And therefore, even though our former ordinance that had solicitation in the roadways was, seemed to work, we could no longer have that. And so I took that particular ordinance, which is on exhibit B now, or exhibit A rather. And if you look at that, you will never see a reference to soliciting. All it does is prohibit people from walking into the roadway of our principal arterials and principal boulevard arterials, our biggest, most fast and highly trafficked streets uh because and it's for a safety measure we don't obviously it's kind of like jaywalking we don't want people to jaywalk or walk into the uh roadway of these streets and if they walk onto the crosswalk to cross the street that's fine but we don't want them to go out there and just stand in the crosswalks well well i guess cars whiz pass we don't feel like that is probably a safe thing for them to do we have allowed actually uh a permit to do that on occasion. And I think most of you all know that the firefighters have a fill-the-boot situation that they've done for many years. And there's many protective measures that are required for that to protect both them and the citizens. For example, they have to have $2 million of liability insurance. They have to wear protective or reflective vests. There must be a sign between 50 and 200 feet before... They're going to be in the street to warn drivers and that there are going to be people in the roadway And so that has worked for many years I'm not aware of any any accidents any problems with that particular group And I think there's also a second group that does that to a second charitable group that does that so they get Permitted to do it once a year What we've seen in other cities is that individuals Not for charity, but just for themselves will want to go out into streets and endanger themselves for whatever reasons they choose to do. And we feel like that is something that should not be allowed on our most dangerous streets. Now, this does not affect any of our communities. collectors, which there still can be pretty fast driving there, and local streets. And that's because the courts say that you've got to be much more detailed and restrictive on the kind of limits you can put on anything that could be regarded as free speech, even though we don't ever talk about soliciting on this. So that is why I have brought this forward to try to protect us from litigation. I think our earlier one, which talked about soliciting, was probably something the courts would no longer approve. even though a lot of these things have been in existence for a very long time, but the courts now say that they're no longer good. And so I felt like we had to change that and try to keep the best parts of what we had but remove all the reference to any kind of solicitation or speech in order to make it pass constitutional muster. Now, I will say I would like to suggest one change to Exhibit A, As I told you, the charitable group must have $2 million of insurance in order to ensure that they're protected and the motor's protected from any kind of harm that could happen. And so for an individual that I put in there that could still do this, I thought I should drop it down significantly for that. And I originally put $50,000 with, but I think that's too much. I think I would like to see an amendment to $500.00. for that to make it more feasible and not where it would be absolutely impossible for an individual to obtain that kind of insurance. So I would suggest that that be amended, that exhibit be amended, so the amount of insurance for an individual person, not a charity, not a group, be lowered to $500. Okay. And I'm certainly available to answer any questions about this. Do we have any questions for Kit? I'm sure an amendment is coming. Sarah? I was going to move that we amend to Kit's suggested language the $500 limit. Okay. Do we have a second? Matt? Sure, I'll second it. Okay. All right. What discussion do we have on the amendment, counsel? Any public comment on the amendment? Hi, my name is Angela Belford, and I've spent the last few weeks becoming very just uncomfortable Educated on issues concerning homelessness here in Northwest, Arkansas And one of the issues that I never really thought about as someone who has been homed as an adult but was homeless as a child or a teenager 14 is the issue with creating a record in the system and so my question to you would be if I violate this ordinance and if I'm arrested for panhandling then what is the um What is the charge and what is the punishment for that crime? Is that a misdemeanor? Is that a felony? Because one of the issues that faces when you become homeless and you get into the judicial system, then you have a lot harder time to get back into housing, you have a lot harder time to get back into employment, you have a lot harder time to get a lot of places. So I get that we're trying to keep people safe, But I didn't really realize, I didn't really think about until a few weeks ago how this sort of thing seems like a safety issue and then could create barriers for someone to become homed again or employed again. So could you help me understand that? You want me to answer that? Yes. Uh, it neither a misdemeanor nor a felony. It is a violation of a city ordinance. Uh, no imprisonment possible. I don't think the state even keeps any records of violations. because they're only violations of city ordinances, and we're pretty low down on the chain. And it's not for panhandling. It's just getting into the street when you shouldn't be into the street. So potentially someone could also be charged with jaywalking or some other potential state crime, but not for violating this ordinance. But if they're charged with a state crime, jaywalking or some other criminal mischief or something like that, That could be a misdemeanor, and so that could go on their record. But that wouldn't be as a result of this. What's the fee, the fine, for a violation of the city ordinance? It's the standard fine that we have for any ordinance violation, which is up to $500. Okay. Just consider that. Thank you. Okay. Any other public comment? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. We have a motion and a second to amend on the floor. I apologize. Yes, we do. Any other discussion on the amendment? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Sinnott. Yes. Schottmar. Yes. Long. No. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinton. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Okay. Now we have the amended ordinance. Is there any public comment on that? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. The last speaker raised some interesting points that I would like it if we could hold it right here unless this is a time-sensitive issue and just give us a little more time to think about it. I do actually think it would be an issue, unfortunately, because I can tell you that I have learned that our ordinances are being looked at and suits are being prepared to file suits. against us for trying to restrict somebody's freedom of speech by restricting their right to solicit. So I would like this to be actually passed tonight as a little bit of armor for us and keep us from getting sued. If there are changes that you would like to propose in the future that don't involve freedom of speech issues, then I certainly would be willing to entertain them and we could come back and look at it. But I would like both this one and the one that has been walked on after this one to be passed tonight as, so that we don't face litigation before our next city council meeting. I know. What do you think?
 Okay.
 Alan? I'd like to make a motion to move, spin the rules and move to the second reading. Marty? Second. I have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Sorry. Okay. Let me put you back in. Are you kidding? It's not best enough, Marty. All right. I do apologize. It's okay. Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. adela i may we go to the third and final reading justin second we have a motion to second go to the third and final reading sunday would you please call the room yes yes yes yes yes yes An ordinance repeals section 7404 hitchhiking prohibited and enacting a new section 7404 standing or walking on a state or federal highway prohibited and to amend section 7405 of the Fayetteville code to clarify permit requirements for organizations and individuals who wish to walk or stand within a principal arterial roadway. Okay. Any final comments? Sarah. Now that I'm trying to look at this a little differently. How does this affect protesters who want to gather and protest, maybe and shut down traffic as part of their political speech? This ordinance really wouldn't have a true effect on them. There are already other ordinances about streets. Normally you can obtain a permit, a special permit to do that. Streets are a— somewhat of a public forum not a total public forum where you can just take them over anytime you want to and block traffic i have walked in the street myself during the vietnam war and so i can tell you it can be done and i bet this would not change that thank you okay matt yes thank you mayor um just one quick uh caution you know i understand why we're doing this tonight I hope that we'll continue to be lenient with people that are clearly just crossing roadways where there may not be a crosswalk for an extended length up and down the roadway. I can think of a lot of places, places like 71, for instance, where it would be unreasonable to expect somebody to walk 20 minutes out of their way when they could just cross safely if they were cautious. So I hope this won't be misinterpreted that we want to draw a very hard line on situations like that. Okay. And I think that is correct. Obviously there is a state jaywalking statute right now that the police don't go out of the way to enforce in an unsafe situation. I mean unless it is an unsafe situation or normal situation. And so this does not change any of the state law and that state law is still in effect. Okay. Anything else? Senator, would you please call the roll? Senate. Yes. Shop launch. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Union. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Now the last item is a walk-on, an ordinance repeal 97.083 soliciting alms to amend 97.086 vending and peddling in A of the federal code. Whereas recent federal courts have invalidated many state and local restrictions upon begging and soliciting funds as a supposed violation of the First Amendment's freedom of speech, and now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 97083, soliciting alms of the Fayetteville Code, and Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 97.086, vending and peddling, by repealing it in its entirety, subsection A, I mean, repealing it in its entirety and enacting a replacement, subsection A, as shown below, subsection A, general prohibition of selling in city parks, No person or business shall within a city park sell anything. I drafted this actually today after receiving a call about our ordinances, and it was mentioned that we actually had a no soliciting or no begging ordinance in our parks. I looked in our park section, and sure enough, can't ask for alms. We can't do that anymore. In our parks, we're not allowed. They are, again, somewhat of a public forum, not a complete open public forum, but enough of a public forum, I think the courts would tell us, that we cannot restrict panhandling or begging or asking for alms or contributions. And so that particular section simply must be removed. When I was looking at that section, I looked a few sections down to the... vending and peddling in the parks. I think, I hope, that we can still basically ban selling in the park, except for the exceptions that we have in it in subsection B. But I don't know if we can ban offering to sell, because when you offer to sell, it is a verbal free speech issue. So I am trying, by rewriting it like this, I'm just trying to say... that it is not the speech, it is just the business transaction, the exchange of money or valuable stuff for something else. And I think that we can then maybe still have a way to prevent selling over-commercialization of our parks, which we've always tried to do by having this no vending and peddling within the parks. This is my effort to see if that can stay within the constitutional powers that we have. So that's why I presented that. Okay. What question? Mayor. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Maybe this is covered in paragraph B, but I only have the ordinance language, so I can't look that up. Just a walk on. Will this in any way affect the concessionaire permits or food truck permits or anything like that? Everything in B, which is an extensive list, does include the concessionaires and several others. I think the Gully Park people that are there and some of the other exceptions that we already have. So it should not affect that. Thank you. Okay. Can you tell me how will this affect people who are using, say, Craigslist, and they don't want to draw strangers to their home to complete a transaction and instead automate them in public places such as city parks? Would that be banned or free cycle or those other exchange? It's banned right now. If this would ban it, I guarantee you it's already banned. This really limits what we are prohibiting people from doing in the parks. Something like that, I think a good argument could be made. The cell was already made and all they were doing was exchanging at this point in time that the cell was made over the internet. And so I would not think that would be a problem. Can't give you a 100% guaranteed answer, but to me I don't think that will affect anything. And it won't affect anything any more than it's already affected by the current ordinance that I'm trying to change. Thank you. I just wanted to add a comment for Council Member Marsh. The police department does have a Craigslist exchange site that is by our police station in a filmed area that's available to citizens who have that concern as well. And it's probably the safer place to go. Okay. okay yeah how to spin the rules and move to the second reading Marty okay is there any public comment on this okay gonna bring back to the council Sunday please call the roll yes yes yes yes yes yes yes Adnorence repeal section 97.083 soliciting alms and to amend section 9708 6 bending and peddling subsection a of the payable code Just All right, we have motion saying go to the third and final reading Sandra, would you please go the road? Yes Yes Yes, yes In order to repeal section 97.083, soliciting alms, and to amend section 97086, vending and peddling subsection A of the Fayetteville Code. Okay, any final comments from the council on this? Mark? Okay, no problem. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Bennett? Yes. Shotmar? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Okay, thank you all. I have a question for the city attorney. If the waiting party on a council vote decides to reconsider a vote, how long do they have to do that? They can consider it either during the meeting in which the vote occurred or the next meeting before that next meeting is adjourned. Okay. I'm probably going to reconsider the active transportation vote. All right. And I will say this is an unusual situation because, as you know, the mayor chose not to vote. So someone might say, well, is he really on the prevailing side? In my opinion, yes, he is, because if he had chosen to vote and vote yes, then it would have passed. So he chose, as the prevailing side, no. So even though I've never seen that before, this is a new one to me, I do believe he has the right to do that. Yes. As a point of order, and I think we should be careful about this moving forward because it's not this issue, but it could be any issue that comes up in the city. I disagree respectfully with our city attorney that. If someone doesn't vote, I would think that that's more of an abstention. And per the memos that we've received from our city attorney, someone who abstained can't make a motion to reconsider. So I would just caution us against doing that. If it were something else, then it could be a bigger deal. Okay, all right. Let me ask another question then. If I decide to sponsor an ordinance and bring it back, I could do that, correct? You certainly can, but I do think you can do a motion to reconsider. You did not really abstain. And abstention is not just not voting. It's saying, I have a problem. I've got a conflict here. I've got to abstain. I have a conflict of interest one way or the other. I know the applicant or whatever is going on. So I think that in this particular case, the mayor was asked, in fact, he voted no first, and I tried to stop him, and then he said he wasn't going to vote. So I do think it is clear that he was with the prevailing side, and therefore as a member of the prevailing side could bring it back in a motion to reconsider, or you could bring back a new ordinance too, if you please, however you want to do it. Okay. Well, then, to Council Member Long's point, I will bring back something in two weeks then. All right? In the meantime, we'll work out all the details. And Merry Christmas to everyone. All right. Any announcements? Yes, sir. We do have a few announcements, particularly related to the holidays that are upcoming. First of all, city offices will be closed this Friday the 23rd and Monday the 26th to observe Christmas Eve and Christmas Day. The animal shelter will also be closed during that entire time to the public. Obviously, emergency calls can still come into our dispatch, but the shelter will be closed to the public. for solid for trash and recycling collection the schedule will be mostly normal for the week although on Monday it will move back a day so there will not be any a residential collection throughout the city on Monday everything will be picked up the day following we'll catch back up on Friday Lastly, I just want to say happy holidays to all of our Fayetteville citizens and from staff. Thank you to Marty for your service and the relationship that we developed over the last four years. I appreciate that. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. Good work and have wonderful holidays. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas to you all. Good job.