I'll call the city council meeting of December the 20th 2022 to order. Kara, would you please call the roll? Jones. Here. Pinion. Here. Whitaker. Here. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Bunch. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Harvey. Harvey. Here.
 Mayor Jordan. Mayor Jordan Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business that we have tonight is service recognition for Councilmember Kenyon and Councilmember Scoggin.
 Good evening, Council and citizens. Tonight we want to honor and recognize Council Members Mark Kenyon who has served this City Council for 12 years and Sloan Scroggins who has served the City Council for four years. Sloan was in Ward 3 and Mark was in Ward 2.
 For their many years they have spent working hard with dedication to the City of Federal. And I want to personally say thank you to both of you because you have been exceptional council members, Mark, you and Sloan both. And I want to thank you for moving this city ever forward, for helping to make this city a better place to live and work and play.
 So, Sloan, in 2019 to 2022, in recognition of your commitment to the citizens of the City of Federal, with sincere appreciation for your dedicated service as a council member on the Federal City Council. Thank you, my friend.
 Mark, thank you for your service, my friend.
 Now would you all like to say something? Yes. All right. Something you'd like to address? I just want to say thanks to the citizens of Fayetteville for giving the opportunity to representing them. It's been absolutely wonderful.
 uh getting to know Fayetteville so much more and and helping those that are doing well and those that are struggling and I hope to continue doing that maybe not in this form but continue to help those in Fayetteville so thank you. Mayor I've got a few words to say. Mark you have something you'd like to say. Yeah through the miracle of technology I have received this beautiful plaque that's nice no
 I really appreciate your leadership, Mayor. The last 12 years, we've seen a great deal of change in our city. Some of it's due to the population growth that's given us a lot of challenges. The climate change and the velocity and volume of water we've seen is really troubling, but we're working on that.
 And I couldn't mention all the projects that have been completed during the last 12 years, but it's a pretty heavy load if you look at it for our city. And our citizens and those people that elected me, I hope you know how much I appreciated serving in the capacity to bring the city to what it is now. And Fayetteville is home to me and I'm sure that I will be around for a long time. So
 Again, thanks a lot and thank you, Mayor, for your leadership. Thank you, Mark.
 We have the nominating committee reports. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. We were just talking. I know. But I'm here now. Okay. This is our nominating committee report. And we interviewed a lot of people, had some really great interviewees. And here's our recommendations. Let me get my glasses here.
 For Active Transportation Advisory Committee, we recommend for one unexpired citizen at large term ending 3-31-24, Melissa Rowe. We have three citizen at large terms ending 12-31-24. And for those three positions, we recommend Daniel Grime, David Criswell, Claude Terrell,
 Airport board, we have one citizen at large term ending 12-31-27 and we recommend Zane Chenault for that and I apologize he uses a different name but I wrote down Zane.
 We all know Zane should we know who Zane is so I don't know what his first name is honestly. But Animal Services Advisory Board, we have one unexpired citizen at large term ending 630 23 we recommend Paige Summers for that.
 Steve Wolverton for one unexpired business representative term ending 63025. Miranda Anthony, one unexpired licensed veterinarian or veterinary professional term ending 63025. Audit Committee, Charles Leffler, one citizen at large term ending 123125. We had no applicants for the Black Heritage Preservation Commission.
 We had, let's see, for Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board, we recommend Matthew McMillan for one unexpired local small business representative term ending 3-31-25. Elizabeth Stennett for Construction Board of Appeals, one unexpired term ending 3-31-27.
 For Environmental Action Committee, we recommend Alex Maroner, one citizen at large term ending 1231.25. Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, we recommend one citizen at large term ending, we recommend Jonathan Wood for one citizen at large term ending 1228.25.
 12-28-27. Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, we have three positions, citizen at large positions that all expire 12-31-25 and for those we recommend Hugh Kincaid, Sarah Downing and Steve Shealy. For Urban Forestry Advisory Board, we have three citizen at large positions that all end 12-31-24. For those we recommend Lacey Jenin,
 Coy Morris and Tosh Zink and that's our report okay I will entertain a motion a motion and a second to accept the nominating committee's nominations so moved second okay we have a motion a second to accept nominating committee's nominations care which please call them up Jones yes yes yes yes
 Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hertzberg? Hertzberg? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now for the consent agenda. Don't anybody get in any hurry. All right. Number one, approval of the December 6, 2022 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Bobcat E50 excavator from Williams Tractor Incorporated in the amount of $68,908.50, plus any applicable sales, taxes, and freight charges pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract, and to approve a budget adjustment.
 3. A resolution to authorize the purchase of a concrete mixing truck from GW Van Kippel Company for the amount of $333,801 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source-well cooperative purchasing contract, and to approve a budget adjustment.
 number four a resolution to award bid number 23-01 and to authorize the purchase of pavement marking installation from stripe incorporated in variable amounts for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2023.
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 23-01 and to authorize the purchase of curb and gutter construction services from Sweets or Construction Incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2023.
 Number six, a resolution to award bid number 23-03 and authorize the purchase of tree planting services from building exteriors incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2023. Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 23-04 and to authorize the purchase of asphalt paving services from Emory Sapp and Sons Incorporated on an as needed basis through the end of 2023.
 number eight the resolution toward bid number 23-05 and authorized purchase of concrete materials from apac central incorporated as primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price availability as need through the end of 2023
 Number nine, resolution to award bid number 23-06 and authorize the purchase of aggregate materials from Hunt Rogers Materials LLC as primary supplier and to authorize the use of other bidders based on product and availabilities need through the end of 2023. Number 10, a resolution to authorize the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the transportation division on an as needed basis through the end of 2023. Number 11.
 to award bid number 23-08 and authorize the purchase of plastic trains powered from Windwater, Ford, Smith in variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2023. Number 12.
 A RESOLUTION TO AWARD BID NUMBER 23-09 TO AUTHORIZE THE PURCHASE OF CONCRETE, DRAINING PIPES AND STRUCTURES FROM SURLOCK INDUSTRIES OF FEDVAL IN VARIABLE AMOUNTS AND FOR VARYING UNIT PRICES NEEDED THROUGH THE END OF 2023. NUMBER 13, A RESOLUTION TO AWARD BID NUMBER 23-10.
 and authorized the purchase of precast modular block retaining wall units from industrial precast incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices need through the end of 2023. Number 14, a resolution toward bid number 23-11 and authorized the purchase of high performance coal mix asphalt from Emory Sapp & Sons incorporated as needed through the end of 2023.
 Number 15 resolution to award bid number 23-13 and authorized purchase of preformed thermal plastic paint markings from the Vico markings incorporated primary supplier and from his Flint incorporated a secondary supplier and variable amounts and for varying unit prices need through the end of 2023 I
 number 16 a resolution to award bid number 23-14 and authorized purchase of lights fixtures and poles from jns lighting and controls dba premier lighting group in variable amounts for varying unit prices need through the end of 2023. number 17 a resolution to award bid number 23-15 and authorized purchase of truck hauling services
 from true love dirt works llc for need through the end of 2023. number 18 the resolution to approve federal police department policies 22.3 secondary employment 41.2.11 use of departmental vehicles and 46.1.2 critical incidents
 Number 19, a resolution to approve the first amendment to the tower space and ground lease agreement between the city and Smith Two-Way Radio Communications LLC for the radio tower site located at 3300 West Stensmore Trail to provide for the attachment of new equipment, increase the annual cost by $8,400 and extend the length of the agreement by five three-year renewable terms.
 a resolution to approve a memorandum of understanding with the department of public safety and accept a 2022 arkansas department of public safety equipment grant award any amount of 100 000 from the police department to approve budget just number 21 a resolution to approve policy
 AOP-101 general information and introduction of the federal fire department administrative operating procedures. Number 22, a resolution to approve the third and final two-year renewal contract with startup junkie consulting LLC to provide economic development consulting services in the areas of entrepreneurship and innovation in the total amount of $300,000. Number
 23 a resolution to approve change order number nine to the construction managers at risk contract flintco LLC for the police headquarters project any amount of three hundred eighty thousand three hundred eighty one dollars and to approve a budget adjustment this police headquarters bond project number 24 a resolution to approve amendment number nine to the contract and
 with environmental consulting operations incorporated in the amount of $65,500 for wetlands mitigation site monitoring and management in 2023. Number 25, a resolution to authorize contract between the City of Federal Arkansas
 and Federal Youth Center in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Federal 2023 with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms.
 Number 26, a resolution to authorize a contract with the City of Fedville, Arkansas, and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $145,804 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fedville for 2023 with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms. Number 27, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $13,300
 and 37 recognizing donation revenue from citizens and local businesses to parks natural resources and cultural affairs department number 28 resolution to approve a proposal from comfort systems usa incorporated in the amount of 180 944 dollars pursuing to bid 21-72 for
 plumbing repair at wilson park pool to approve project tendency in the amount of forty thousand dollars in approved budget adjustment number 29 resolution to authorize acceptance of curtis h sykes memorial grant program award any amount of two thousand four hundred and fifty seven dollars from the arnold state archives and the black history commission of arkansas for the purchase of the nelson hackett historical marker and to approve budget adjustment
 Number 30, a resolution to approve budget adjustment in the amount of $47,474, representing donation revenue to the Annual Services Division.
 31. A resolution to approve change order number three to the professional architectural services agreement with Demick's architecture in the amount of $32,250 for additional services related to the Wilson Park restroom hub building. 32. A resolution to approve budget adjustment in the total amount of $29,969.00.
 representing community development block grant program income and donations from citizens and local businesses allocating the use fund balance funds.
 Number and number 33 a resolution to approve contract community access television incorporated DBA your media any amount of two hundred and seven thousand three hundred and seven dollars for revision of public access television services and the operation of public access television channel through 2023 I will entertain a motion except since so moved second The motion second to accept the consent agenda as read care, which please call the roll. I
 Jones yes Indian yes we did Kurt yes Scroggins yes yes sir yes yes Harvey yes okay let's go to unfinished business number one resolution that order the raising removal of the lacknade and unsafe structure property owned by Kevin Roy Calhoun located at 3301 South
 Coach Road in the city of Feb, Arkansas, and to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $17,500. This was tabled till tonight. Billy, what do you have? Thank you, Mayor, City Council. Billy Bryant, Senior Code Compliance Officer.
 To follow up from last week's agenda session, I did get Mr. Calhoun's phone number. I reached out to him, and I did make contact with him as of yesterday and today. He did inform me that he sent all of you an email. Did everyone receive the email? Yeah, mine's 4 o'clock. Okay. Okay.
 He couldn't make it tonight due to, that was the story that he wanted to tell you all about the property. As far as on our end, there is no new updates, but I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. Okay, what questions do we have for Billy from the council?
 um mayor i have a question so um billy in the email he said he said you all had had discussed um the requirements uh that he will need to do in order to become compliant and the and um he mentioned that he was going to start taking action on that and i just learned if you could kind of relay your conversation with him to us and and with what confidence you had in that discussion
 Sure. He did ask about the steps to take to get this down. And I informed him about the demo permit, the removing the utilities from the house. And he informed me of the same situation that he explained in the email. He did seem very sincere. I can tell that this has affected him very greatly.
 But to me, he seemed very sincere. And all the information in the email is the information that he shared with me. Any other questions from the council? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council please stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this that's in the chamber on this topic susan who do you have on zoom no one has their hand raised mayor okay so i will bring it back to the council what discussion with council like to have or what action with council like to take
 well I just want to say I appreciated him reaching out to us and updating us on his predicament and status and that he had a discussion with with Billy and so I would move that we table this maybe for 30 days so that we can see that he's actually moving forward and making some progress on on this item
 So your motion is to table for two weeks? 30 days. 30 days, okay. Second. Why don't we do an actual city council meeting, so the second meeting in January. That sounds good. And I do have a request. The clerk has not received a copy of that email. Someone needs to forward that to her so she can put it into the agenda file. I can do that. Okay, so we have a motion to table until the... Before we go on to vote on this,
 I would like to say, I was looking back over the pictures of this house, and Billy, is he saying that he's going to, you've given him the information, and he's going to start the process of demo himself? Is that? I believe he's going to contract it out. Okay. Okay. You know, this is one of the worst looking houses we've had.
 And, you know, I understand his letter was really, you know, really was touching and I understand that, you know, he's sincere, but I don't want to get into a situation where we have tabled something so many times that we don't. It's left there and we think someone's going to do something and they maybe can't follow through on it the way that they would like to. So I'm in favor of tabling it.
 we I need to know in 30 days that something's actually happening that's actually moving forward so you know that permits have been pulled or you know someone's been contracted something like that
 thank you you're welcome anybody else yes just so for everyone to know um so the email that we received said three to four months is what he thought would take for him to get everything taken care of so i think the 30 days is a fair amount of time to just check in and see how it's going and then
 Just so everyone knows we have a like a more clear path of what he believes is how long it's going to take him That that was that I'm sorry. I didn't make myself very clear. That's my intention that in a month something can be started and
 It could be the permit process or something like that. I'm sorry, I'm just trying to get a time here. So if it's the second meeting of January, what's the time on that exactly? That would be, I think that's the... Is that 30 days or more than 30 days? It may be more or less than 30 days. You're okay with the second meeting of January? I'm okay with that. We just started talking, we said 30 days and I kind of lump everything in 30 days or 34
 28 days or so we know it's a second meeting it's a second meeting yes i think the intent of the motion is that so we make we know that he's making progress like we've had with other similar incidences we you know if they're making a good faith effort then i'd love for the citizen to be able to play this out and that's not to take action that's my
 intention to thank you yeah I agree with that I mean they won't be done in four months if they don't get a permit in 60 days I mean because it's kind of a sequence of events so that makes sense for me to check in if we want them to be on the four month kind of plan okay is everybody good all right we have a motion second to table to the second meeting in January
 SHHH. I'M JUST WAITING. OKAY. OKAY. READY, SONYA? OKAY. CAREY, WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE RUMORS? JONES. YES. GINION. YES. WHEATAKER. YES. SCROGGINS. YES. BUNCH. YES. TURK. YES. BURTSBURG. YES.
 Okay, thank you all. Number two, an ordinance to rezone that property is described in rezoning petition RZN 22-048, located at 1657 North Vandiver Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately 0.67 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre. That was...
 left on the second reading I would entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading so moved second we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading Kara would you please call the roll Jones yes Kenyon
 Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Roggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-048, located at 1657 North Vandiver Avenue in Ward 2.
 for approximately 0.67 acres from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre to RMF-24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Jonathan Kerth with Development Services. While I had no new updates on this item at agenda session, we did receive one piece of public comment between agenda session tonight. I sent that out to the council members today, but if you've not had a chance to see it, it was a statement of support from the adjoining property immediately to the west. Otherwise, I have no new information available for any questions, and Robert Rhodes is here as the applicant's representative for this item. Would the applicant like to speak before the council?
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall-Lestal and I'm representing the applicants. And if you recall, two weeks ago I gave a presentation that I saw all of you listening intently and taking copious amounts of notes. So I'm not going to repeat that. I'll just hit a few high points, okay?
 Uh, during that December six council meeting questions arose regarding this project and the fact that it's on band of industry, which is a residential link.
 with open ditches. Keep in mind that any improvements in the streets will be determined at the time of the development, but further, more importantly, keep in mind that this is a corner lot with frontage on Sycamore, which is an improved neighborhood link street. It is the intent of the owners of this property to develop with ingress and egress on Sycamore as well as Vandiver.
 There's also questions regarding the slope of the neighborhood. And as you recall at that last meeting on the 6th, Mr. Kurth indicated the property had flat plateaus.
 Further, we've indicated that the intent of this development is for these townhomes to be no more than three stories high, with the first story being an underground rear entry garage on the high side, thereby taking advantage of the property's topography. In other words, incorporating the slope as engineering and design features. And also, with careful consideration and incorporation of a sustainable drainage plan.
 which of course is required by during the development phase by the city. I would also point out that in the discussion on the 6th, Mr. Kurth indicated there had been some public comment and he just mentioned there had been some more.
 I think we also, the mayor asked if Mr. Kenyon had received any comment. He said no. Mr. Whittaker said that he sought comment and that it was favorable. Hopefully things haven't changed since then. Again, Mr. Kurth indicated that Mr. Parker, is who I think he was talking about, indicated he was in favor of it, and then today I had a telephone call from Rudy Hatcher, who's
 who is a property owner literally right across Vandervetter in the Forest Heights addition. He's actually the one that developed that subdivision. And he indicated that he left a voicemail for Gretchen Harrison. I suspect that hasn't filtered to Mr. Kurth.
 I'm not sure if you can see it, but I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you
 the other comments that have come up have all been favorable so with all that said i would hope that you'll be able to support this and vote it vote it up and i stand ready willing and able to answer any questions and i thank you okay does the council have any questions for the staff or the applicant okay then let's take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who in the chamber would like to address us on this? Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay, and I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. This is on the third and final reading, so what discussion would the Council like to have, or what action would the Council make?
 I think we're ready to vote here. I have some comments, Mayor. I drove by there again. I hope my other colleagues have driven by this location. It's a very steep slope. I have a question for Jonathan. Jonathan, is this the, are there other zoning types that would allow for nine townhouses other than RMF 24? I mean, such as RAU 12?
 are the ri residential intermediate districts allow townhouses up to four attached so if that's the applicants intend to do nine it would not be allowed by right now okay thank you for clarifying that um i'm i'm simply not going to support this um this is in a residential neighborhood everything surrounding it is rmf4
 The steepness, the slope, the terrain, it's 90% or 80% of this is in the hillside, hilltop overlay area. Sure, we absolutely need more housing and we need greater density, but I feel that this property is not, the geography is against it, the topography is against it. So I will not be supporting this. Thank you.
 Okay. Mike, have you all received any public comments? No, Mr. Mayor. I actually had to reach out and email people to ask them and receive no opposition. Mark, have you heard anything? I haven't heard a thing. Okay. All right. What else do we have? Okay. If there's no other comments, Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go on to number three.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 22-045, located west of North Box Avenue in Ward 3 for approximately 1.81 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, 40 units per acre to RZN 22-045.
 R. I. 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre. This was left on the first reading. We'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker?
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kurt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. And in order to rezone that property inscribed in the rezoning petition, RZN 22-45, located west of North Box Avenue in Ward 3, for approximately 1.81 acres, from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RI12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre.
 Thank you, Mayor. I realize there's a little bit of discussion about this item two weeks ago, but given the applicant's request, the table did not make a formal presentation. So with the understanding that most of the council is probably fairly familiar with the issue now, I'll be fairly cursory, but do want to cover some of the overarching issues.
 As a reminder, this property is in East Fayetteville. It's in Ward 3, just northeast of the intersection of Mission and Crossover, or 45 and 265 if you prefer. Thank you.
 The site's located on Box Avenue, which is approximately 1,200 linear foot dead end that extends northward from Mission, just adjacent to the Firestone business there. It's located between McNair to the east and Flynn Creek to the west. It is a fairly level site, at least on the eastern half of it before it begins sloping downward on the western half towards Flynn Creek and its associated floodplain.
 The applicant's request is to rezone from RSF4, residential single family 4 units per acre, to RI12, residential intermediate 12 units per acre. When reviewing the request, planning staff was of two minds. They did certainly acknowledge some of the lacking street infrastructure in the area. Box, again, is a dead-end street. For the majority of its extent, it is fairly undeveloped and open ditch on both sides.
 Staff's findings were balanced or counterbalanced perhaps with consideration for a lot of the land uses in this area, which are pretty varied, including some attached residential to the south, detached residential elsewhere on Box, and a myriad of non-residential and institutional uses within close proximity to the site. On the balance of issues, planning staff or staff did find that the request is compatible from a land use standpoint.
 When it comes to long-range plans, staff finds their quest to be consistent, the properties
 City Neighborhood Area Future Land Use Map designation and its infill rating both suggest that an incremental increase in the amount of allowed uses is appropriate. RI-12 allows the possibility for two, three, and four family dwellings in addition to the single family dwellings allowed in RSF-4 while maintaining a lot of similar lot and building height traits.
 As I noted before, there are a few other issues on the site. Street infrastructure probably being the most prominent of those. Council spoke to this a couple weeks ago and heard about that from the residents. An example of this can be seen here. This is closer to Mission Boulevard with the left-hand side of the street being indicative of what's been developed more recently with the attached homes there and Firestone behind the photographer.
 The right hand side is open ditch and is much more characteristic of what you see on the rest of the boxes you had north. No curb and gutter, fairly narrow and open ditches.
 When it comes to tree canopy, the rezoning request would reduce the minimum required from 25 to 20%. And also there were some comments made by the public with particular concern about effects to the natural environment. This is just a brief exhibit showing you how the FEMA floodplain standards and streamside protection standards overlay each other.
 Because of the significant amount of topography on the west side of the property, floodplain does not significantly encroach onto this site. However, the city's stream site protection standards would extend further into the property, into the tree canopy that's most characteristic of the west portion of it.
 All that said, staff ultimately recommended in favor of the request. The Planning Commission was split in their decision, five to two, but ultimately forwarded it to City Council recommending in favor.
 Those that supported it spoke to the proximity to services and amenities that this site has, as well as it being one of the smallest increments of increase in housing types that could be allowed on the property. Those that were not in favor of the request and even some of those that were in favor expressed hesitancy because of the traffic that exists on Mission, the lack of connectivity because of the dead-end street.
 and a loss of oversight of some of those attached residential building types that the current RSF4 zoning allows. Rather than reprise the public comment you'll have the opportunity to hear it two weeks ago. There's not been anything new heard since then but it's been fairly uniformly in opposition. With all that in mind staff did receive a bill of assurance from the applicant this afternoon that did go out with your updated agenda very shortly ago I realize.
 so i've offered some paper copies for the council to consider there's two main pieces to this proposed bill of assurance from the applicant one the intent is to keep the proposal for ri12 but to limit the uses to only those that are allowed by right
 And that includes single, two, three, and four family dwellings, accessory dwelling units, cluster housing, and short-term rentals. And also the second piece of it is to limit the density to 12 units for the overall property, not 12 units per acre. So what total units for the overall property translates to is 6.6 units per acre.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has and will Kallstrom is available here as the applicants representative. Thank you. What the applicant like speak for the council. Good evening, will Kallstrom here on behalf of the applicant. Jonathan, I want to thank you for getting that bill of assurance out on such short notice. I appreciate that.
 So as Jonathan just said, we're wanting to rezone 1.8 acres from RSF 4 to RI 12. I want to apologize for my absence last time. I was double booked. I had to be at a rezone in Siloam Springs. Hard to be there and here at the same time. Okay.
 So nonetheless, despite not being here, I have gone back and watched the video and I've watched some of you guys' concerns and I've watched the public's concerns. And so the thing that I want to get to first is this bill of assurance. We've offered a bill of assurance that will limit it to the permitted uses under R.I. 12 and will limit it to 12 units overall, which is about 6.6 units per acre.
 This is a reduction by almost half from what is allowed. There were a lot of concerns by the public about the number of homes that can be built and about the traffic. And so I think that this does at least a little bit to address maybe all of those concerns.
 So you look at the neighborhoods that surround this intersection, this kind of node around Crossover and Mission, or Highway 265 and 45. There is CS, NSG, RMF 24, RS 4, and RMF 6, which is actually on Fox Avenue. The majority of housing that is behind the commercial developments, namely the Northwest,
 the southeast is zoned RMF 24 and in fact on the northeast there's a lot of apartments behind that commercial center.
 Again, we're asking for 6.6 units per acre. That is already partially present on Box Avenue with the duplexes to the south, which are zoned RMF6. RI-12 is actually pretty similar to RMF6 in some respects, the lot with minimums in particular and us limiting our density. They're actually very similar to what's already there.
 In terms of a moderate increase in density, we're asking for two extra units an acre than what's there. I think that's about as moderate as you can get. There were a lot of concerns about traffic from the neighbors.
 So I want to make a point that when people are coming out of this neighborhood, commuters are going to be turning right for the most part. They're not going to be headed out of the city to go to work. And I think this was brought up at the meeting. As for school, school traffic, as one member of the public even said, it's actually easier to walk to that school. So I think that them being closer to the school probably reduces traffic. It puts people next to schools, gives them the ability to walk.
 As for cars stacked up in the street, as it turns out, a bunch of cars that stack up in the street around school letting out and letting in, or rather letting out, are parents that are waiting for children to walk from the school to their car. So that's less of a traffic issue and more of a people maybe not following the rules issue. Okay.
 So, this is a walkable neighborhood and I really want to push back on the notion that it isn't. Just looking on Google Maps, there's 17 restaurants around here.
 Not one, but two grocery stores, a convenience store, a drug store, a doctor's office, four banks. There's even a liquor store. There's basically anything you could want around there that you want to walk to. I'm hard-pressed to find something that's missing there. Most of that you only have to cross one street to get to. Fayetteville City Plan 2040 talks a lot about infill.
 This neighborhood is near a big intersection and it's underutilized land and there's a lot of stuff nearby So just said as far as the playbook goes on where to put infill. This is you're looking at it I
 One of the last things I want to talk about is the issue that there is only one way in and out on Box Avenue. It's a dead end street. So as hard as I tried to come up with a clever argument to get around that today, I couldn't. It is a dead end street. But I do want to make a couple points here. Really the only feasible way you can get extra access to Box Avenue is off of Crossover.
 If you are going to build a road off a crossover onto Box Avenue, you're going to have to cross that stream that we talked about earlier. And it's going to be a big, expensive bridge that crosses a creek and goes uphill. I think it's unlikely, but in the event that a developer did have the capital to build that stream,
 they'd be wanting a lot more than 12 units. So I think it's unlikely to happen. And then on top of that, talking about what the neighbors want, I'm gonna say that definitely wouldn't like that. So it is a dead end street. I think it'll stay a dead end street. So the question is whether it's fitting to have more homes on it. I went on Fayetteville's GIS today and I measured the acreage of the lots that have access to Box Avenue.
 It's about 13.8 acres total, and there's 11 homes on it. That's less than one unit an acre, right in the middle of Fayetteville, which is a city of 90,000. That doesn't seem like the highest and best use to me. There is, this is a street that is mostly not built out. There's 11 homes on it. I think that there are space for more. And what we're asking is to put 12 more on it.
 So I think through that I've addressed most of the concerns voiced by the neighbors. I think one of their principal concerns is that 12 units an acre is too much and we've reduced that figure by almost half. So I thank you guys for your time tonight. I'm here if you guys have any questions. Thank you. Does the council have any questions for the applicant or the staff? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration.
 Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak after that. Who in the chamber would like to address us? Yes, please, come on up. Hello, my name is Cole Myers. I live at 2250 North Crossover Road.
 And first, I do want to say that I respect an individual wanting to diversify their property use. Deeply respect that. Some of my concerns have already been shared by this gentleman over here, but I do want to reiterate some of them. One is the increase to public services. So the McNair School that is, as we've said, in walking distance to this property has already been rezoned prior to the start of this school year.
 and has added an external building onto its property. Now, I realize efforts to correct that already, but should these increase of dwellings be there, a rezoning yet again will have to reoccur. And the zoning for these schools is already a block away from the school. So you have individuals living two blocks from this school that have been zoned out of that school, and they now have to go to a different school for their children.
 I myself lit my properties adjacent to that school. And if my three children had to go to a different school being adjacent to that property, it would be very disappointing to say the least.
 Another topic is around my three children is that they do walk to school currently down the Box Avenue Street. Already noted is that large portion of it is not sidewalked. However, the traffic today is little enough that they can walk down the middle of the street or with an adult, obviously. And so the increase of this is.
 can be overcome by infrastructure sidewalks and construction but the time to do that and the danger that provides the children not only mine but also the ones coming from the school to be picked up next to that firestone business I think should be a note of concern the other item is.
 The Flint Creek, I have three branches of that creek that run in the back of my property and it is already littered with pollution from upstream pollution and what have you. So as we increase dwellings upstream, that becomes a big concern for myself. And the last is going to be the zoning of it. So I, again, I respect the bill of assurance to only put 6.6 units per acre.
 As we've already said, there's less than one house per acre on this street. We observe houses being what I would think to be surveyed, potentially for this event to occur for other open lots on this street. And so if we're only going to put 6.68 units per acre, why wasn't it zoned RSF 6? Why did we go to RSF 12? If more acres come open on this small street, are we going to rezone to RSF 12?
 IT SEEMS LIKE OTHERS ARE ZONED RMF 6, EXCUSE ME, AND THAT REZONING THIS PROPERTY AT LEAST TO THAT SHOULD BE THE FIRST CONVERSATION. THAT'S ALL I HAVE. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. WHO ELSE WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THIS? OKAY. NEW SPEAKER I DO HAVE A ZOOM. NEW SPEAKER OKAY. NEW SPEAKER WHO DO YOU HAVE ON ZOOM, SUSAN? NEW SPEAKER JENNIFER AYKIN. NEW SPEAKER OKAY. GO AHEAD.
 Hello and thank you. My name is Jennifer Aiken. I live at 1238 North Box Avenue. And I do have some concerns. One was just addressed.
 as to the zoning of RI-12. If they're only going to put six acres on, or six units on, why not rezone it to RSF-6 instead? As it was mentioned, there are other vacant properties, lots on the street, and this could set a precedent for having those rezoned to a level that would not
 That would not mesh. It could be RI-12 for all of them. And our dead-end street will not be able to accommodate that. Another point I'd like to make is that North Box Avenue, it does not have a cul-de-sac. So anybody visiting the street has to turn around and use people's driveways. It is very difficult.
 And there's no good option to make North Box Avenue a two-way. It is a dead end, and it can't be extended because the Vandergrift school drop-off. The Firestone is also present on the street, and semi-trucks have to come and park in Box Avenue Street, not in the Firestone parking lot, to unload, and there are deliveries several times a week.
 In addition, when anybody drops off a vehicle at the Firestone, there's always two cars. The car being dropped off and the other car who will pick the person up and take them away. And then two cars will always drop off again. As was mentioned, there are parents who use the street for school drop off and pick up. And this all impacts the amount of traffic on the street.
 One thing that was brought up is the walkability of this area. And I would invite each of you to come actually walk from Box Avenue across the street, across Mission, and through the intersection at Crossover and Mission.
 At that intersection, when you use the crosswalk, you have to physically put yourself out in front of cars because they do not see the pedestrians and they do not stop when you are trying to cross that intersection.
 I think that is very valuable to look at at that intersection if more increased traffic is put on Box Avenue that's going to go and migrate through that intersection. Perhaps a walking bridge that would need to be funded to make it actually safe for residents to cross the street over to those businesses.
 One thing I would also like to propose is a new traffic study with this increased traffic on Box Avenue that's going to influence the major intersection of Crossover and Mission. Perhaps a new traffic study would need to be performed on that intersection and also a study to determine the best options for making walking to those businesses safe for pedestrians.
 that's all i have thank you for your time thank you who else no one else on zoom there okay now i'm going to bring it back to the council this is on this is an ordinance it's on the second reading um what discussion are action items with council like tech
 A couple items. I know we mentioned the school district. I really hope the school district and the city start having end of year meetings again and start talking about long range planning. However, I don't think that we should be making long term land use policies based on short term school issues. We should be making the best decisions in the long term.
 On the difference between Riu 12 being limited down to almost six units per acre versus RSF six, I believe the issue with that would be you'd have to spread those lots out kind of equally, which would mean the development would probably be farther away from the road and more likely closer to the stream. Whereas if you do an Riu,
 and limit it to six, all those buildings could be close up to the street and then you could protect the area in the back. Now they don't have to do that but that's definitely a possibility and something that probably wouldn't be available at the RSF 6. And if Jonathan feels differently would you let me know?
 I don't necessarily disagree with anything you said, Council Member Skarga. I think that what I've heard from the applicant is their main interest is in the potential to develop attached residential, which gets to what you're saying. When you attach residential units, you tend to use less land area. And any of the RSF districts only allow attached residential as a conditional use. Thank you.
 Okay, awesome. Thank you. So I think if I were to vote against it, it would be hoped that something more holistic for the whole area was included. But I agree with the applicant, it would be difficult to build a bridge across the creek. I have walked from this street
 Several times I've dropped a car off at the tire shop and then walked home. I've walked from East Oaks to McDonald's and many of the other restaurants in the area. This is an area that you can walk around. So I feel like when I think there's some people that think walkability means you can just walk in the area, but walkability means you can walk to something.
 And this definitely meets that criteria that you can walk to something, you can walk to grocery stores, you can walk to banks, you can walk to entertainment, you can walk to a liquor store, you can walk to a bar. So I feel that this area is walkable. I think the bill of assurance actually puts us more in line with the area. So I'm more likely to vote with the bill of assurance. So but I'll let my other council members speak.
 I have a question for Jonathan. So when we're talking about RI 12 or 6, which was brought up by several people from the neighborhood, how many houses could you actually put if it were zoned for six houses? You can't get six houses on there. I mean, it's just a rough idea because I guess what I'm saying is,
 is people always think, well, you know, if you want six houses, just zone it for six houses, but you can't actually –
 probably by the time you put in your parking and everything else, you will not be able to put six houses on there. Am I wrong in thinking that? No, you're certainly correct that usually the allowed density is usually not what the number of units yielded is. You're right, there are a lot of considerations, utility easements, parking, drainage, things of that nature. I think as a point of clarification also, there is no RSF6 zoning district that the city of Fayetteville has in its ordinances
 It jumps from four to seven. Again, that circles back to potentially the issue with the applicant's client is interested in developing attached residential housing. I think the nearest comparable zoning district that has comparable widths would be RSF8, which then again, they would have to go for a conditional use permit to the planning commission for attached residential, which is limited to duplexes in that zoning district. Does that answer your question?
 it does i guess i guess the point i was trying to make is if it were zoned six if we had a zoning for that then it would we couldn't actually put six on it it would probably take be far fewer than six so that's correct and most zoning districts as the council has probably learned over time there are
 lot area requirements and there's particularly street frontage requirements which is how much frontage or how much the linear width footage of a lot on a public street that's required. That is more often than not the driving factor in how many lots can be created and the number of units that can result. You know, I know this is a congested area here and I have actually, you know, I've
 I'm one person and I use the Firestone dealership and I drop my car off and frequently if I drop my car off, I might walk back home, which is about a mile away. I'll walk up the hill because, you know, I just don't want to make somebody have to come get me and take me home when I can walk. But I will do that. But I know it is congested over there and there's a lot of traffic. And it's not like it's just two normal-sized city streets. It's two...
 You know, it's two state highways that come together there. So it's a little bit different than some other streets that cross. But I also think that a lot of the complaints about the traffic and everything, it's not just Box Avenue that creates traffic. It's everything that is to the east of this that's out in the county and it's out in Madison County. That's where a lot of traffic comes from that would be driving on Highway 45.
 A lot of traffic driving on Highway 265 is coming from Elkins and out in that part of Washington County. So it's not just we look at what happens on Box Avenue and everything around this intersection is just going to be, I don't feel like it's going to be so severely damaged.
 by allowing a few houses there because we have all these other issues that are outside of our control there. But I do think that this is a, you know, a good location to,
 to say, okay, well here's land here, and we could put some houses here, and yeah, it is close to a school, but everybody that buys a house in Fayetteville doesn't have kids that are going to go to elementary school. Or, you know, it could be a young family, it could be a young person starting their job, it could be all sorts of things.
 So I don't know, I'm not quite sold on some of the arguments against this even though I do know for a fact, having walked in this area, that it is crowded. People do run the lights. People drive too fast through there and I know that for a fact. But that's not to say that a few more houses is going to completely ruin that intersection because we have all these things that are outside our control there.
 I appreciate Will's comments. I apologize. I always thought he was a civil engineer. It's only this week that I learned he's a dadgum attorney, Mr. Mayor. I apologize. Shame on me.
 So at that intersection, it's true everything that's been said. It's 27,000 to 29,000 vehicle trips a day going north and south. It's 11,000 to 13,000 vehicle trips going east and west.
 The only issue that I can possibly find is the one way in, one way out. The planning commissioners that didn't support this are very supportive of growth. They're very supportive of additional density. The only concern they had was the sense of, is this the right place to increase density?
 They had previously opposed additional one-way in, one-way out streets that were dead ends and are at least consistent in expressing that concern. And it's the only concern that I can find as well. It doesn't mean that I oppose this project. I find the applicant and their attempt to responsibly address the concerns of the neighborhood to give them a great deal of benefit of doubt.
 And I think Will has admirably attempted to represent his client. He can't change the traffic volumes, none of us can. The numbers that I cited are the lowest numbers that will ever come through that intersection.
 I'm not 100% persuaded that this is the place to increase the density either because of it being a dead end street, which causes me caution. However, I will acknowledge that that density does not in fact increase the traffic volume on the intersection or the street. It's literally decimal dust giving the existing traffic patterns. So a bridge will not be built across that creek
 That would be an exorbitant amount of money. I think it's gonna stay this way. What he has going for him is walkable distance to a school, walkable distance to other commercial ventures. And I'm balancing that with the situation of having to make a right turnout only and how far do you drive to then go to anywhere else that you need to go. So I'm curious about other opinions. Thank you.
 Mayor if the City Council is going to consider the bill assurance and the ordinance needs to be amended To make it subject to the bill of assurance So if you believe that It's possible you want the bill of assurance then there needs to be a motion to amend The resolution of the ordinance to make it subject to the bill of assurance so moved second motion second to add the bill of assurance to the result
 And let me read what it would be at the end of the title. It just says subject to a bill of assurance. At the end of Section 1, it'll say subject to the attached bill of assurance to limit the total number of units to 12 and only the permitted as of right uses in Section 161.11B1, parentheses, RI-12, residential intermediate, 12 units per acre. Okay.
 so that would be what would be added to the ordinance okay everybody got there they're good okay any discussion on the amendment okay care would you please call them up jones yes inyon yes we did her yes scroggins yes bunch yes third yes earthsburg yes harvey yes
 And I would ask Jonathan to make sure you've got a copy of the bill of assurance to the clerk. Yes, I have. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Okay, so now we have the amended rezoning.
 okay so what discussion bill will have if i may ask a question refresh my memory the bill of insurance would run with the land if it was sold just like the new zoning runs with the land is that a true statement that is correct to remove or modify the bill of assurance would require zoning action by the city council thank you in fact a bill of assurance is part of the zoning
 Yes, question. Yes. I see a proposed trail. Have we talked much about that? Like at the end of the box that goes to Vandergrift? Is that right? And I'm seeing at the dead end and it goes, a trail goes to Vandergrift. Do we know any timelines on the trail?
 I don't believe that's in any immediate work plan. I'd have to lean on Mr. Brown with Pollock Works if he knows off the top of his head. Otherwise, I can try to dig that up here shortly. Just not soon, probably. Not real soon. Okay.
 I don't believe so. Just for the benefit of myself and the rest of the council, are you just describing the one that runs east-west that basically T's the northern end of Box? It looks like it'll eventually connect to Crossover and Vandegrift. I'm just wondering if there's other ways for the students and parents to get to school besides going down Box.
 And so the gentleman who spoke about his children that go down box, I guess I was wondering if, I guess, could he answer a question? Yes. Could you pull up, well, I guess I have, can you pull up the map? Do you have a question for the? Yes, I do. I do have a question for you. Could you pull up a map, Jonathan, of how, of the, that,
 Box, Mission, the school. Can you help us understand how your children get to the school and how currently they go south on Box? Correct. So, yeah.
 Currently, I have an agreement with my neighbors and we actually have a trail through the backside of my property hooking up with their driveway. They're at the end of Box Avenue, correct? Yep. And then they walk, I guess that would be south down Box Avenue and then up the sidewalk and then we reverse back on the way home. So, they actually, they currently go to Vandergrift, so we have to walk around McNair to Vandergrift. Okay.
 So they're going to Mission, is that right? Yes. To Mission and then to the school. Correct. Okay. Okay. So, and then where is your house? I'm on 2250, yes, where is Cursor, is there? Correct. At the very end? Yeah, on the crossover side of that property. Gotcha.
 But you did, you have for now, you do have some trail, like you kind of made a side trail. No, so we have a, through the woods again, we have a trail, a guided trail to my neighbor's driveway next to that to connect to Box Avenue. Oh, okay, two points. So we have an agreement to let me use their driveway. I see, I see, you're going from there to Box, okay. Correct. I've got now, because I was trying to skip the picture of that. Because I'm trying to connect how, where the new development is and where you're walking, where the, the...
 kids are walking and then I'm trying to put all that picture together. Yeah, I'll be researching that trail. Okay. So if we can expedite that, I haven't heard of that. Yes, and you can request that that be added to a higher priority list. So I recommend you do that. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you. That's all I've got. Okay.
 I'm very concerned about this street just because of the, I like the point that Miss, let's see, the second lady who spoke, I have her information here. I'm trying to get organized here. We have a new way of looking at our agendas digitally and so I'm a little bit flipped around.
 Miss Aiken, I talked about there's no cul-de-sac, so that's difficult, and I'm concerned about the Firestone stone trucks using Fox for commercial uses. And I'm concerned about the stream that is already impacted. However, I appreciate Mr. Will's comments.
 great effort to make bring the bill of assurance and so jonathan so we were at how many units and now we're at 12. what was the first number i believe it was about 20 units per acre or 20 i'm sorry 20 units for the total 1.81 acres so we went less than half
 So I appreciate all your effort there. It would be nice to have more houses next to the school. So this is a tough one for me because I appreciate all your effort, and I do want to consider the safety of the students. So those are my two concerns, to stream the dead end and that the trail's not coming real soon.
 Council Member Harvey, I can confirm I'm looking at the 2022-2027 trail construction plan, and it is not one of the listed trails. Okay, it won't be there soon. And no sidewalks probably either, because at least there's one on the other side. Okay, I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Sarah. Did you have something? Oh, there's a...
 Thank you. You're welcome. There's a, what appears to be, you know, it's not a paper street, but a paper cul-de-sac turnaround that's shown on the street. I'm curious if we have any intentions of cul-de-sacking
 the street before we enter the last driveway of the last home. It could just be an old artifact before that last lot was purchased and developed. But the map previously that you showed Jonathan and the one currently in our agenda does show what appears to be a future cul-de-sac. I'm wondering if we can see if that exists in a work program.
 Again, I'd have to defer to our public works director. I believe that's more of a relic of the platting of this neighborhood. It's not uncommon to dedicate right away to accommodate a cul-de-sac, especially in this period in the 50s, 60s and 70s, but not actually build it. I don't believe that's in any work plan that I've seen. So Jonathan, does anybody remember how long that Firestone store has been there?
 It's, you know, eight, ten years, maybe something like that. About ten years. So I know it's been there more than five years. And there's still going to be trucks turning whether these houses are built or not.
 And with only a few houses on this Denny and Street, there is very likely that there will never be a trail built because trails go to connect places and people to places they want to go to. And with just a very few houses, a few number of houses.
 I don't really see that that's enough houses to build a trail. That's just the way I look at it. Usually you look at areas where you have larger number of homes and then you try to get them connected to things and build little pieces of trail to connect people.
 So, you know, there's still going to be trucks turning there. There's, you know, I don't see that we'll ever build a trail with just a few houses on the street. You know, so these are things that, you know, even though the traffic is still a big concern to me at that intersection, I just, I still think this is,
 It's the best project that we can come up with if someone wants to develop this. I don't think anyone's ever going to buy this and build a million dollar bridge to cross that creek and then go connect to crossover. I just don't see that happening. And if that were to happen, it would have to be a lot higher density than what we're talking about right now.
 And so I just don't know. I'm interested to hear from some of the other council members on this and what their perspective is. Jonathan, can you show us again or tell us what the staff, the concerns that the staff members have?
 I think you're referring to the infrastructure concerns. It was during the review of this, of course, planning staff coordinates with engineering on this condition of the street and the public works director reminded me through message also that there are of course fire code considerations as well. Once you exceed a certain number of threshold of units on a street, it's possible that a street would have to be widened or the cul-de-sac would have to be built regardless of whether it's on a city work plan without knowing how many.
 units or see what the project looks like. It's hard to know if that would be required, but that gets back to your question and to answer more succinctly, it's just the condition of the street, whether it's adequate in width or appropriate to add more units on a street of that narrowness. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, I have a question. Right now there's no sidewalk on either side of the street, is that correct? For the northern two-thirds or so, correct. The sidewalk does begin on the west side once you get to the buildings built immediately north of Firestone. Okay, thank you. With this proposed rezoning, what would be the requirement?
 If the buildings are constructed as was described in the meeting, would there be a requirement to build the sidewalk or any other kind of infrastructure? I know it depends on the impact, but just your best guess. I appreciate that acknowledgement. Certainly at a bare minimum, sidewalk is a baseline standard requirement in the city, especially if you're increasing the number of units in a given location, the impact is increasing.
 Beyond that, it would be based like a kind of as I alluded to fire code. Other instances, especially when there's one way streets where it may need to be widened to accommodate, I think bare minimum 20 foot width is the standard so that two engines can pass each other. And if I believe it's visible in the packet, the picture in the packet or in the presentation, where additional asphalt and curb and gutter had to be added on the units.
 If I can promptly pull that up, maybe give a little bit of a visual to what I'm describing. And would that be on the city's dime or would that be all on the developer's dime?
 Typically, it's on the developer. If there's something that can be publicly beneficial, there's always an opportunity to come to council for a cost share. I think council sees those periodically more in the realm of utilities, but sometimes where a street improvement can provide a wider benefit, staff support's bringing those to council for y'all's discretionary consideration. What I was describing previously, you can...
 Generally see the cut in the asphalt here. That's all additional new asphalt on the west side of box when it ends just at the northern extent of this property where the sidewalk was added beyond that, which is where it narrows considerably and there's no sidewalk curb or gutter further north.
 I drove down there a couple of weeks ago with this if this development is approved with that connect up with the sidewalk connect up where it ends right now or is there a gap there is not a gap yes the sidewalk was built all the way through the two existing duplexes and a single-family home north of those and the property under consideration right now is immediately abutting that okay thank you very much I think yes son I move that we
 Vote. I'm tired. I move we move to the second reading. Is that where we are? No, we're already on the second reading. If you want to advance, it needs to go to the third. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Kenyon. Whitaker. No. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch.
 Yes. Third? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Let's see. In order to rezone that property as described in the re-zoning petition, RZN 22-45, located west of North Box Avenue and Ward 3 for approximately 1.81 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to RI 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre, subject to a bill of assurance. I have a question for Jonathan.
 So can you tell us what the difference would be with the Bill of Assurance, the R.I.12, and what we have now, the RSF4? Can you tell us what the difference in use would be?
 The allowed uses today under RSF4 include single family homes, ADUs, and you can do short-term rentals with a conditional use permit through the Planning Commission. RI 12 allows the potential particularly for attached residential homes up to four units attached so quadplex. So you can do single family detached, two family, three family, and four family, and cluster housing. Thank you. Sarah, do you have something? No.
 Does anyone have anything? Well, shall we vote? Yes. I think we should. Kara, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Ertzberg? No. Harvey? No.
 I believe we have four affirmative votes. Is that correct? So, Mayor, do you care to vote? I'm not voting. Well, then the ordinance fails. Okay. Okay. Let's go to new business. An ordinance to amend 118.01, applicability in 118.02, entry upon business registry and issuance of business license of the federal city code to amend 151.01, definitions 159.01,
 Fee Schedule and 163.18 Short Term Rentals of Unified Development Code and to enact 164.26 Type 2 Short Term Rentals in Non-Residential and Mixed Use Zoning Districts for the purpose of increasing fees for conditional use permits in Type 2 Short Term Rental Business Licenses.
 amending the regulations for type 2 short-term rentals based on zoning district and removing outdated and unnecessary provisions related to the 12-month startup period kit
 Whereas since ordinance number 6427 was adopted on April 20th, 2021, and as of November 29th, 2022, the Development Services Department has issued 360 business licenses for type two short-term rentals. And there is currently a citywide cap of 894 business licenses for type two short-term rentals. And whereas the City Council...
 Ordinance Review Committee has recommended changes to the City's short-term rental regulations, including fee increases to recognize the actual staff time involved in administering these provisions, removing the conditional use permit requirement for Type 2 short-term rentals in non-residential and mixed-use zoning districts, and to incorporate factors considered for Type 2 short-term rentals located in residential zoning districts. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby repeal subsection E of section 11801, applicability of the Fayetteville City Code, and enact a new subsection 11801E, as shown in Exhibit A, attached hereto. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby enact subsection C4 of section 118.02, entry upon business registry and issuance of business license, as follows, quote, short-term rentals,
 Annual fees to submit the business's first application for business registry and license shall be $50, except that if a business registers electronically, it shall receive a $3 credit against this annual fee and only be assessed $47. Applications submitted after October 31 deadline shall incur a fee of $58 if submitted by November 30th,
 $61 if submitted by December 31st, and $72 if submitted thereafter. After initial registration and receipt of business license, the next year's renewal shall be $50 if timely paid, $47 if renewed electronically. Otherwise, the late payment fees shall be assessed as above. Section 3.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby amend Section 159.01 Definitions by repealing the last sentence of the Definitions of Short-Term Rental Type 2. Section 4. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby amend Section 159.01b5 by changing the fee for conditional use to $200.00.
 Section 5, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby repeal Section 16318, Short-Term Rentals of the Unified Development Code. And an action new, Section 16318, Type 2 Short-Term Rentals in Residential Zoning Districts, as shown in Exhibit B attached here too.
 Section 6 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enact section 16426 type 2 short-term rentals and non-residential and mixed-use zoning districts into the Unified Development Code as shown in exhibit C attached here to and made a part hereof.
 Okay, Jonathan, do you have this? Thank you, Mary. Yes, I do. Our at least I'll begin and I'll handle, hand it off to council member Hertzberg as the chair of ordinance review and possibly council member Weedekru may have some proposed amendments.
 I'm just going to jump through the timeline real quick just to remind us how we got to tonight very briefly. Of course, everything began with the adoption of the short-term rental ordinance in April last year. There was a lot of background leading up to that, of course. I don't want to shortchange it, but that's where the conversation started in a lot of regards. The start-up period was extended and the condo owner exemption was adopted about six months afterwards.
 In mid-2022, in July of this year, the startup period ended. That was the grace period in which operating short-term rental properties that are used primarily as short-term rental properties could get a business license without going to the Planning Commission for a conditional use permit.
 In August and September of this year, staff brought before the Planning Commission the awareness of the sunset clause that would end all the adopted ordinances by this December and sought input from them on what should be done moving forward.
 Ultimately, the Planning Commission forwarded a proposal to City Council to eliminate the requirement for conditional use permits. Some of you may have heard at ordinance review or otherwise, some of the commissioners have had a change of heart since then, and that's kind of led to a lot of the ongoing conversations we have had. In more recent months, the City Council, of course, heard from the public and heard from staff at several City Council meetings before referring the proposal or a prospective amendment to the Ordinance Review Committee.
 Most recently, on the 6th, the City Council ultimately voted to extend the Sunset Clause for 12 months to the end of 2023. And tonight we're considering an ordinance amendment that came out of ordinance review.
 As a brief summary of the Ordinance Review Committee meetings, they occurred on November 16th and 30th. There was public comment at both meetings. The first meeting was heard from a resident who had a particular interest and concern in the ability of the city to enforce whether property is actually functioning as a type one or a type two.
 There was also a comment received from a local operator and manager of short-term rentals who had concerns about increasing requirements and also cautioned the city against, or not against, but cautioned them regarding third-party enforcement groups and ensuring that the cost of those third-party compliance services actually was offset by any fees or otherwise so that it did not eat into any taxation that the city gets from short-term rentals.
 At the second ordinance review meeting, two planning commissioners spoke. They did a particularly focused on concerns about neighborhood destabilization and the concentration or frequency of type two short-term rentals in one particular area of the city.
 There were several items that the council members themselves discussed, and of course, you all as those members can expand on anything I'm going to summarize very briefly. It was largely about conditional use permits still, what standards of consideration would go into those, whether by staff, the planning commission, or city council. Similar to the planning commissioners and residents, there's a concern generally about the concentration of type two short-term rentals in any given part of the city.
 There was a conversation about those third party compliance groups and an interest in seeing those explored, but ensuring that whatever fees we charge offsets their costs. And lastly, there was quite a bit of discussion about penalties and the ability to more readily revoke the rights or the permits or licenses of bad actors.
 Ultimately, what came out of the ordinance review and what consensus was agreed upon related to, I summarize it here as two substantive changes and two administrative changes.
 Taking the first one first, with regards to conditional use permits, the proposal from staff which ordinance review largely agreed with is to continue requiring conditional use permits for type two short term rentals in residential zoning districts, which I summarize here. Those are the ones you typically think of as those with acronyms like RSF and RMF.
 But not requiring a conditional use permit in commercial mixed-use zoning districts both would still require business licensing including the standards on registering for hotel motel taxes Building inspections and the like the second piece was with regards to use conditions. Those are those a
 parameters or findings that staff, the commission on appeal, the council would need to make with regards to short-term rentals. Currently, there aren't any standards in code other than a large umbrella standard of land use compatibility and public good. This adds a little bit more detail to that with regards to parking. Again, the concentration and frequency of type two short-term rentals, and also whether a property has run afoul of law, the law in the past.
 On the administrative side, there was an acknowledgement that the current fee structure does not account for the amount of staff work that goes into short-term rentals, either at the conditional use permit level or the business license level. This is probably the most straightforward of the proposals. It would go from a $100 to $200 conditional use permit fee and a $35 to $50 business license fee, which has some variety in it for prorating throughout the year.
 And moving forward, this is, of course, entirely up to you all's discretion. The option tonight is to adopt what is in front of the council that Mr. Williams just read. Of course, that can be amended. I know that there's a couple of amendments on the table that were included in the packet from Council Member Whittaker. And another option, of course, is I think what Council Member Hertzberg suggested.
 noted at agenda session, which is the potential to either remand this ordinance back to ordinance review for consideration, or remand the larger subject to ordinance review to ensure ongoing discussion in the lead up to next year's sunset provision.
 With that, I believe I had one outstanding question from agenda session that I owed an answer for. Councilmember Turk brought up the fact that there is a clause in the landlord-landlady registry requirement that short-term rentals be required to register in that registry and asked if that was being done. Because of where it is in ordinance, we cannot...
 We cannot not issue a business license because they've not registered, but when we register it, there are a series of items that we give to applicants stating that they have to do these items moving forward and includes things like registering for the register and continuing to renew your licenses throughout the year. With that, I believe that was the only outstanding item for last week. I'm happy to take any questions. And of course, I'd like to hand it off to Council Member Hertzberg.
 Teresa, do you want to comment on the landlord registry first?
 Thank you, Holly. Yes, I just wanted to clarify, Jonathan. So when they register for the business license, you just make a suggestion that they have to go and also register for the landlord registry. It's not an automatic. You can't check a box, and there's no way to verify that they've actually done that? That's correct. It's similar to other rental properties in the city. It's a requirement that they be on the register, but we don't actively go out to individual properties and make sure they're registered. Okay.
 Has there been any discussion about how to automate that? It seems like it would just be a checkbox or it could be transferred over once they actually register for the business license. That just seems like an administrative thing that could be made a lot more efficient. It could be explored and I appreciate you bringing it up at agenda session.
 It sounds very administrative, but we use two different softwares for those, so they don't necessarily speak to each other. I think that's something we could work more in-house to see if that's a possibility.
 I mean, I hear from people all the time about how they can't get a hold of certain businesses or certain properties. So I would really appreciate a follow up on that if possible. Certainly. And in the future, please do direct them to planning. Planning is the group that ended up where the registry ended up with after that ordinance was adopted. Part of the ordinance didn't include who it was assigned to, so staff worked that out.
 Moving forward if we don't know if somebody's not on the register. We can't require them to be on it It's a requirement. Is there a need to modify the ordinance to make that a requirement or I'm just trying to find out if there's a way to put more teeth into it than what we have right now and
 I mean it is required by the ordinance. I think the issue is just maybe that it's not tied to our business license issuance. That may be an option to include that as a part of that separate section of code. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 how do you and then yes thank you mayor um so as jonathan said uh ordinance review committee met a couple times we had a few lively discussions um so i want to thank jonathan and staff for all of your work and everybody who was a part of ordinance review and all of our commenters who came to speak um i also got to talk to council member turk at our ward four meeting and get her input so i feel like we've had a lot of discussion on this topic
 One of the things I was most excited about that came out of ordinance review was the discussion about how we come to decisions about conditional use permits and the appeals because I think that was a little bit tricky to make decisions when we didn't have a list of guidelines to go by. So I think that will help the process in the future.
 I think that there are some other changes that could come about, but I do think it's important that we pass the sunset clause so that this ordinance doesn't go away in its entirety. So I would like to propose that this be passed, but that we eventually do send it back just so that we're able to continue with discussion as Teresa has brought up and Mike has brought up. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Council Member Wiedeker for his suggested
 I believe we had, Sarah had her light on first. Okay. Just, okay. What I wanted to bring up is that before we start talking about putting more teeth in anything, why don't we make sure our system works for the citizens and the people of Fayetteville that are trying to use it and make sure it's a little bit more concise and easier to use for people.
 And I think that's something we need to work on before we talk about finding and putting teeth in things, that people can actually get on the system and figure it out on their own and work forward with it. And possibly then we don't have to put teeth into them. But, you know, I just, that was just something, and I was going to ask Jonathan, why do we have two teeth?
 What is it about our system that has two parts that don't interact with one another? Part of it was wanting to create or the need to create something for the registry that was publicly facing and
 could be updated by the, a landlord or a landlady on their own. I don't recall exactly why that could not be incorporated into the same software that does our business licensing. Again, that's something I'd need to look into. Not being on the registry does not prevent you from getting your license or vice versa though. Not being on one doesn't prevent the other, which I think is Council Member Turk's concern.
 But is it made, when you go to apply for a business license, it's made abundantly clear that you have to be on the landlord registry? Correct. Or your, you know, whatever. Correct. When the license is issued, there's again a document that's issued to the operators and it's the second bullet point on there is that you need to register on the registry and there's a link ingrained in that document. Okay. All right. Thank you. You're welcome.
 I want to start by thanking Holly for being the chair of our ordinance review committee and doing a yo person's job of that. The committee spent a lot of time and did good work.
 I'm not going to be on that committee this next year, and so I wanted to take my shot at continuing to communicate things that I thought were potentially of significance. So the first was I asked the question, how did we arrive at the 2% threshold? The answer I continued to get was that that was a relatively
 best guess random number, that there was nothing magical, there was not deep analysis, there was not some systematic research that said, this is what the community ought to have. And so my first proposed amendment
 is equally arbitrary and that is to say 550 licenses as a midpoint between the issued licenses today and the maximum licenses. My logic being that if we're having trouble regulating, inspecting, handling appeals for, communicating with
 the current number of 200 and something to 300 and something, how are we gonna handle almost 900 of these? That puts us at one to two years of workload equivalent to this past year's workload. And that's an inordinate amount of work on staff
 the Planning Commission and Council and that is not being covered by the revenue generated by these uses and so I view that as a use that's a black hole in the ground in which we pour money and so to limit it gives it doesn't deny anyone's right to pursue legalizing their short-term rental there's that margin those that want to step up and get legalized have ample opportunity to the second item was just
 Looking at the typical complaints that we have received
 from obviously a small number of actors. So it's not everyone. I don't want to paint the picture that every short term rental is problematic, but it's it resonates as well, gee, it was eight to ten people and it's two to three to four people living in all the dwellings surrounding this with eight to ten kind of overwhelmed the trash, the noise, the light, the just the activity, the parking and
 When you couple that with, now this is beyond my legal ability to comment on, but when you combine that with the suggestion that perhaps, gee, a short-term rental owner potentially has more rights than a full-term residence who owns the house next door who's restricted to up to three.
 non-related individuals living together. How do you have eight to 10 people in a three bedroom home have the right to occupy that
 or up to 30 days at a time and that question resonated with me and seemed like something worthy of additional conversation and so those are the two potential amendments that i proposed as a way of getting it before the full council for discussion with the thought that it would be remanded back to the committee if we weren't
 enthralled with those two ideas tonight. Thank you. Council Member Whitaker, just to clarify for the second issue, would you propose that the occupancy rights be exactly the same as what's by zone, allotted by zone? Yeah, I actually proposed it be the occupancy of the underlying zone plus one.
 It just seems to me that three people is odd for a short-term rental, that two couples would be four people, and in a multi-family zone where we allow four, it would be five unrelated individuals. This doesn't preclude a family with four children being six people because they're related, and so all of that business would still be eligible. Thank you. Thank you. Good question, Holly. Thank you.
 So do you want to move Councilmember Whitaker to amend those or you just want to have the discussion first if we're amenable? Well, hang on, I thought, Holly, your recommendation was to pass what you got and then
 Or do you want to put amendments on it as we go? I, if it were my preference, I would like to go ahead and pass it as is, send it back to ordinance review and then discuss Mike's recommendations with the incoming council members because we do have two new people on ordinance review. Because if that'll be okay with everybody. We'll do it any way you all want to. I just want to get some direction. I would second that because it's difficult sometimes to get really good wording if we're just amending it on the fly here and that's what the ordinance review committee is actually for.
 I would agree. We've got something that we've worked on. It's ready to vote on. I would like to see it moved forward and then ordinance review in the new year, we'll get to tackle some of those other issues.
 I move we approve the resolution. Second. Well, it's an ordinance. It's not a resolution. Hang on. Nice try, but no. We have to take some public comment, and it is an ordinance, so we'll be here a little longer. Mayor, could I make one comment before we go to public? Oh, you sure can. Comment. So, Jonathan, you know, we kind of talked about this last time, that last condition about –
 there had been any legal concerns were you able to clarify if that's that particular property or the owner or both I think if that's a council's concern it should be clarified I think staff could make an interpretation as it's written now but my moving forward a different staff member can make a different interpretation so if council has one way they would like it to be applied I recommend making that explicit
 if that makes sense. I would actually like it to be applied in both cases. So if it's the owner that has other short-term rental properties and they've got in trouble legally or had a lot of complaints, and then also with that property itself. So if a previous owner had had short-term rental issues with that property, that could be a consideration of whether they grant the CUP or not.
 So, if I understand you correctly, you're saying if a property sells, your previous owner has problems, that a new owner might… And my rationale for that, again, just to clarify, I want to make sure that there's no gray area in an interpretation, but it may be that the location is problematic, not the ownership of that particular property.
 I don't know how we would determine that. I mean, I'll defer to the city attorney on that, but I'm kind of unsure. If I buy a property and I go through the process, I'm applying for a permit, I don't really see that I should be punished based on what somebody else did before I bought the property. And if I'm understanding you correctly, and I understand that there are certain locations that maybe have a higher traffic or that sort of thing.
 Okay, so are we putting amendments? Are we discussing or is this, are we going to pass what we got tonight and then go back to ordinance review? Let's just pass what we have tonight. Well, that's kind of where I was kind of going.
 I'm going to withdraw my concern right now and try and draft something up to send to ordinance review so that it gets clarified. And Teresa, if you also want to add that to our work for a meeting, we can talk about that too. And then I can take that to ordinance review as well. Okay. All right. Are we ready for some public comment? Yes. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak and you have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who do we have that would like to speak on this topic in the chamber? Okay, Susan, who do you have on Zoom? Logan Humphrey. Okay, go ahead Logan. Hi there. Thank you all for this. Sorry I'm not able to make the meeting in person this time.
 I wanted to just bring up a couple of points here. I, you know, I've been involved with this process since the beginning. Oh, I live at 2119 West Lawrence Circle in Fayetteville. I think that this ordinance, as it's presented, is a very great step forward. Part of the issue why the conditional use permit was pushed back to council to be reconsidered
 or that there was just an overabundance of considerations. I think that removing the conditional use permit where hotels and motels are allowed to operate by right falls more in line with the business practices. So, I don't think that this should be considered to be removed. That's a great step forward.
 I as long as the fees are being covered by expenses, you know, I'm all about the you know, the city being able to recoup its expenses through the fees that are being charged to short term rental operators and owners. However, if this is a profit center, I brought this up earlier. I think that we should use the
 taxes that are gathered from this and encourage the public to apply for the licenses and receive them and use those taxes for the profit center. One thing I wanted to bring up was the ordinance that was the revisions that were presented by Council Member Wiedeker goes back to some of the main issues that we were trying to solve back in 2019 and 2020. For instance, the
 changing of the two people per bedroom plus two to an occupancy based on relation would be next to impossible to regulate. Not only do Airbnb and VRBO not allow you, the main online travel agencies that are used by hosts and owners, it doesn't allow you to discriminate against relation based on the bookings that you would take, but it would be
 extremely tedious as an operator to gather that information contingent on their booking. When people are allowed to instant book on channels like Airbnb and VRBO, provided that they are verified, reviewed, and have their government-issued ID uploaded,
 The qualifications that are discriminated on is based on the party that is going to be there. And by party, I don't mean like a house party. I mean the amount of guests that do show up to the property. You know, so making it to be four or five people that all have to be related would be overly tedious as a host to comply with. It would also be very difficult for the city to...
 manage and enforce because a lot of people are there for two nights, three nights, and by the time they're gone, you know, a lot of, it's just, it's very short. That's the nature of short-term rentals. So another thing is by limiting the occupancy, it really removes the benefit that short-term rentals provide to the community.
 And that is that it is an alternative to hotels. It allows family to get together under one roof, especially with the holidays. A lot of users of short-term rentals are, you know, larger families, you know, three, five, six people plus, that all would like to stay and cook and share a meal under one roof. And to limit the relations to be that small would really go against what short-term rentals can provide to the community at large.
 Also, I want to challenge the arbitrary number of 550. At least the 2% cap does provide room for the ordinance to shape based on housing. If 550 were to be a number that would be provided, well, the other ordinance proposal in there is to remove the conditional use permit or to add the conditional use permit back to places where hotels and motels are allowed by right.
 But to put a hard number on 550, there would need to be some provisions so that members could challenge or bring to the council to raise that number based on some objective qualifications. Right now, the way that the proposal reads, 550 does not offer any sort of consideration. It's just a hard number based on how the city grows over time.
 So, in sum, I just wanted to say I've been really, really pleased with the way the ordinance has been reviewed and I think this should be passed tonight. Time. Who else do you have, Susan? I have no one else, Mayor. Okay. Well, what shall we do? I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take? I move to suspend rules and go to second reading.
 We have a motion and a second. We'll go to the second. Caravage, please call the vote. Jones. Yes. Minion. Lederker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. An ordinance amends Section 11801, applicability, and Section 11802, entry upon business registry and issuance of business license of the Fayetteville City Code.
 and section 151.01 definitions section 159.01 fees schedule and 163 section 163.18 short-term rentals of the unified development code and to enact section 16426 type 2 short-term rentals in non-residential and mixed-use zoning districts to increase fees for conditional use permits and type 2 short-term rental business licenses to amend the regulations for type 2 short-term rentals based on zoning district
 to remove the outdated and unnecessary provisions related to the 12-month startup period move suspend rules and go to third and final read second motion and second go third and final read care which please call them down yes Indian we'd occur yes Scroggins yes yes her yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes
 and northern cement section 11801 applicability and section 11802 entry upon business registry and issuance of business license of the fable city code and section 151.01 definitions section 159.01 fees schedule
 and section 16318 short-term rentals of the unified development code and to enact section 164.26 type 2 short-term rentals in non-residential and mixed-use zoning districts to increase fees for conditional use permits and type 2 short-term rental business licenses to amend the regulations for type 2 short-term rentals based on zoning district and to remove outdated and unnecessary provisions related to the 12-month startup period
 Okay, what final comments do we have from the council? Mayor, would this be an appropriate time to select a date to send back to Ordinance Review, or do we do that later? I think that would be wonderful. Alright, does anybody have a preference? Sometime in January, so that we could continue this discussion and conversation. Okay, do we want to try for the last week of January, maybe the 25th, just to give the other council members some time to get integrated?
 I know they're not here to comment but. Who's on it in the new year? I think it's me, Council Member Jones and then our two new members. I mean, I'm not gonna be on it. So I feel like maybe they need to weigh in somewhat on what it would be 50% of the people aren't here to say what works for them.
 I think it would be helpful though to say some maybe that last week in January so that we're sure that we're going to continue the discussion quickly and not let this slide. I will email them and see what day works but we're going to shoot for the last week of January. Set a tentative or set a date and then what's the notification process if you need to change the time or the day is it just it's pretty short. I could tell Kara. It's I don't know.
 You know, I think it's a pretty short one, is what I'm saying. If we want to change a meeting, it's not, you know, we have to make public notice and all that sort of thing. So I don't think it's real long. Council Member Jones, do you have any ideas? Do you all think that we should actually just, I'm thinking maybe we should ask the two new ones when is their availability. Okay. Because we have a meeting coming up in first week in January, right?
 Are we allowed to reach out? Yes. What would you all like to do? Mayor, if I can suggest, staff can coordinate with the city attorney's office since they're the leading staffer of ordinance review and chairwoman Hertzberg to propose some dates starting tomorrow and get that scheduled. Thank you, Jonathan. Okay. So, Jonathan, you're going to coordinate with, there you go. All right.
 We're down to the final comments. Is there any final comments we haven't voted yet? Just thank you to the outgoing members. Appreciate your energy and time into it so far. And we still have a long way to go, so thanks. Okay. If there's no other final comments, Kerry, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Whedekirk? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 Fence. Yes. Perth. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Okay, let's move on to number two.
 resolution to approve for American Rescue Plan Act nonprofit assistance applications in the total amount of two hundred fifty two thousand seven hundred and forty five dollars and twenty nine cents to provide economic assistance to nonprofit organizations utilizing the American Rescue Plan Act funds Paul
 As the Council will remember, we established programs to address issues for non-for-profits. Two of the programs that were issued was a reimbursement for losses. The other one was a program for subrecipients. Now just to clarify the two, subrecipients have to agree to do certain things. It's going forward as providing services to the end users.
 The other program, which was reimbursements for revenue losses, were in fact to reimburse the non-for-profits for past expenses because they incurred hardships with their operations. This is the second of that. So this is requesting the reimbursements for four non-for-profits to reimburse them for
 for expenses that they are claiming that we feel there's sufficient documentation for those 4. Non for profits are tricycle firearms which were requesting the reimbursement for 66,391 dollars and 61 cents the rock and Baker Academy 40,988 dollars and 86 cents
 Good Shepherd Lutheran Church, $40,428.20. And the Fayetteville Housing Authority Development Incorporated for $104,936.62. Again, this particular program, as you'll recall, was for losses incurred by non-for-profits.
 If we look at the overview of the final rule of the US Department of Treasury, and there's not a lot of documentation on this as you all can appreciate.
 On page 23, it talks about assistance to nonprofits. Said nonprofits eligible for insistence are those experienced negative economic impacts or disproportionate impacts of the pandemic and meet the definition of a nonprofit specifically, a 501 or 501 tax exempt organizations.
 One of those criteria was challenges covering payroll, rent or mortgages and other operating costs. So we believe that these qualify under those circumstances and those parts of the code.
 With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul from the council? I've got two questions. The first one is, if we approve this tonight, what's an estimate for how long before checks go out? We would produce checks probably in a week to a maximum.
 Okay, second question. Depending on our schedule because of the holidays. Second question, I got an email from Robert Williams about FHA.
 Did you get a chance to read that one? I did. One of the things I'm trying to, one of the things that I tried to address, Sloan, was part of what he was indicating was properly part of the code, but it addressed subrecipients. These are not subrecipients.
 These are non-for-profit revenue losses. That puts it in a different classification. One of the other things he did ask was what, in fact, are they going to do with the money? Well, you know, that was not part of the discussion. Part of the discussion was do you have eligible expenses that we can reimburse for losses? We didn't ask specifically what they would do with the money.
 with the money. Again, part of the precept of that email was that they were sub-recipient and they are not sub-recipients. Okay, thank you for clarifying that. Sure, certainly. Paul, thank you so much for making it very, very clear that this is not the sub-recipient, this is reimbursement for lost revenue during that time period.
 That you all specified. And I also, I know that you and Stephen have gone over all of these reimbursement and documentation very, very carefully. Because the city will be held responsible if they...
 are misused or not properly documented. So I know you all have been extremely thorough and I appreciate that and just want the public to know how detailed you have been in your review. Well, we've spent a lot of time and as all you know, there have been issues where people think we are scrutinizing them too much. However, that's in fact what we're trying to do is protect the city
 for questionable losses or disallowed costs. If they're disallowed costs, we would have to pay them back. We're pretty confident that these would not be declared disallowed costs.
 And they will be audited by the auditor at the end of the year. And we've been in contact with the auditor going back and forth asking questions. So we're comfortable that that would not occur at this point in time. But again, I will say, if anything, we've been criticized for being too scrutinizing too much. What other questions do we have?
 Well, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber on this topic? Okay. No one on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Then I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 What would you all like to do? I'd like to say thank you for the staff and everybody else for bringing this forward. I think it's really important that we get these funds out. So I know it's been a long haul, but I really appreciate your efforts and also persistence to get the required documentation. So thank you.
 Same thing. I've heard from a lot of different citizens, a lot of different nonprofits, even some of those nonprofits that you mentioned tonight. And I know that they are very grateful for the work that you all are doing and have done. So thank you.
 One last thank you for all the nonprofits because I know it's been a lot. I appreciate your patience and your thoroughness and working with the staff. And I don't think we can thank Paul and Stephen enough because they're
 I call them, I don't know, maybe a few times a day on these topics for the nonprofits on behalf of the nonprofits. So just for them dealing with me, I appreciate that. With that, I would move we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any other final comments before we vote? All right. Thank you, Paul. Good job. Judge, please call the roll. Jones. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Let's go on to number three. An ordinance to rezone that property to grab rezoning petition RZN 22-050 located at 682 West Stone Street in Ward 2.
 for approximately .11 acres from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council or the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo,
 from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. In Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in Central Fayetteville in Ward 2. It's about three blocks east of Fayetteville High School, just east of Hill Avenue's intersection with Stone Street, where the built section of Stone Street ends and transitions into an alley running north-south.
 There is a portion of unbuilt right away for Stone Street that does continue eastward towards University Avenue, but if you visited the property, you did see that it's a fairly significant slope running down there and it's unlikely to ever be built. The property in question includes about a tenth of an acre and is currently developed with a two-family building or two-family structure, rather.
 The request is to rezone it from its current RMF 40, residential multi-family 40 units per acre designation, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. When reviewing the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff finds the request to be fully compatible. This area is a wide mixture of residential building types, ranging from very, very large apartment buildings as you get closer to center,
 to smaller, more diverse housing types as you get closer to this property, a mixture of single family homes and smaller apartment buildings, but almost uniformly two to three stories in size.
 With the limitation in the RAU zoning district to smaller buildings, particularly two to three stories, staff finds that this request brings the property's zoning designation much more in line with what's actually built in the area rather than what could be built. Similarly, from a long-range land use plan standpoint, staff finds the request to be
 It has a very high infill rating, which is perhaps not surprising given its very central location in the city. It's near the U of A campus, near again the Fayetteville Public Schools High School campus. There are two transit routes in close proximity.
 and has access to a myriad of other amenities and services that again, you would expect in this area. Similarly, we find it to be an appropriate location for infill development and also to be complimentary of the property's future land use map designation as a city neighborhood area.
 The only other issue to identify is that the tree canopy on the property with a zoning change would reduce from its current 20% under RMF 40 to 15% under RIU.
 Staff is in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly, forwarding it to City Council unanimously. There was not a significant amount of conversation, I think perhaps reflecting their comfort level with the request, although there were comments on that it was compatible and could contribute to the walkability of the area if the property was redeveloped. And to date, we've received no public comment on the item. I'm happy to take any questions the Council has, and I believe Lindsay Hackett is here as the applicant's representative
 online. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Yes, Hackett is online. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Mr. Kurt, for that presentation. My name is Lindsay Hackett, and I'm representing the property owner for this item, as well as the next item, the next request on Garland. I don't have any additional information to add, and I'm just here to answer any questions that you may have, and I'll stay on the call for the next item as well. Thank you. Okay. What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff? No. No.
 Okay, well then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who do we have in the chamber that would like to address us on this topic? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Have you heard anything Mike on this one? There's been no comments whatsoever. And so what shall we do? Shall we go to the second reading? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay we have a motion and second to go to the second reading. Karen would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Whittaker? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Banks? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-50 located at 682 West Stone Street in Ward 2 for approximately a ninth of an acre from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rn rzn 22-50 located at 682 west stone street in ward 2 for approximately 0.11 acres from rmf 40 residential multi-family 40 units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban any final comments from the council care which police call the role
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes thank you all let's go number four an ordinance resolved that property described was only petition RZ n 22-0 49 located east of South Garland Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately 0.45 acres
 from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to I1 heavy commercial and line industrial to RIU residential intermediate urban kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section one
 that the city council of the city of favor arcs are hereby changing the zone classification of properties shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit being both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from morris f4 residential single family four units per acre and i1 heavy commercial light industrial to riu residential intermediate urban section two that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 Who has, Jonathan, do you have that? I do, Mayor. Thank you. This property is located in South Fayetteville. It's within Ward 1 and includes just shy of a half acre of land on the east side of Garland between 15th Street to the north and Cato Springs to the south. While the aerial image here shows that it is developed with two single-family homes, those were demolished earlier this year, so the property is currently undeveloped at this point.
 Otherwise, it's characterized as a fairly level site sloping gradually to the east towards the town branch of which you can see the floodplain associated with it on this slide here. If you're not familiar with our floodplain map, the orange is indicative of our 500-year floodplain, where the blue is what is more commonly considered a floodplain. That's the 100-year floodplain.
 The request, as Mayor and Mr. Williams noted, is to rezone the property from its current split zone status of a mix of I-1, heavy commercial and light industrial, and RSF-4, residential single family four units breaker, to a uniform RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 Staff finds this request to not only be compatible, but to be fully appropriate with the current status of this area. The industrial zoning, particularly at this location, is more of a relic or an artifact of what used to characterize some portions of this property in years past. The area is made up of a mix of residential uses for the most part. Of course, there's the concrete plant further to the west and Head Start immediately to
 But staff finds that its location on Garland represents an appropriate location to encourage infill. Accordingly, and not surprisingly with that lead in, staff does find the request to be consistent with our long-range planning goals, including the Fayette Junction plan.
 which you can see the property located here. As with many properties in these plans, they tended to respect what was on the site at the time of the plan being drawn. So this show there's two single family homes, but for those who have not had a chance to read the Fayette Junction plan, or at least consider it recently, the intent is to build a hub of more dense and mixed use development to the Northwest of here. And staff feels that the RIE zoning district can accommodate that.
 Otherwise, staff feels as though the infill rating on the property of seven makes it appropriate for at least a one level jump in potential development from single family homes to at least allow attached two, three and four family dwellings as well.
 From a other issue standpoint, just wanted to comment, of course, on updating on the tree canopy. Because of the split zoning on the property and because our tree canopy standards are driven by zoning, there's two percentages that are in consideration here. RSF4, of course, has one of our highest canopy requirements, whereas I1 has one of our lowest. And ultimately on this property, that would result in a 15% canopy requirement if RIU were to be approved by council.
 uh with all that said staff is recommending in favor of the request uh the planning commission forwarded to the city council unanimously recommending in favor of it similar to the last item there was limited comment except to note that this is an appropriate and sense of incremental infill and to date we remain or still have not received any public comment on the item whether before during or after the planning commission meeting and
 as the applicants representative noted Lindsay Hackett is also representing this item available for questions thank you the applicant here applicant said in the previous item that she would be available for questions okay she's available for questions what questions do we have from the council for the applicant or for staff okay well let's take some public comment everybody has
 One turn to speak, you have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Do we have anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this? And no one's on Zoom there. No one's on Zoom. Okay. So I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? That's Ward 1. Ward 1.
 Have you all heard anything? I haven't heard anything. I did receive one email like on 5 o'clock today that was in support. That's it. Okay. All right. I'm just glad to see some of the I-1 go. So with that, I move to spin rules and go to second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Beverage, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Biedecker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 Terrence? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition, RZN 22-49, located east of South Garland Avenue in Ward 1, for approximately 0.45 acres from RSF 4 residential single-family 4 units per acre and I-1 heavy commercial and light industrial to RIU residential intermediate urban. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading.
 Second motion second to go the third final read care which please call Yes Yes Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition RZN 22-49 located east of South Garland Avenue and Ward 1 for approximately 0.45 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre and I1 heavy commercial light industrial to RIU residential intermediate urban. Final comments we have in the council.
 just real quick a really great neighborhood i'd love to see some homes there rather than the industrial kind of looking vibe i have storage right there in that neighborhood and it's a great neighborhood love to see more homes there yeah and uh i apologize there was one uh one uh citizen who did speak out at five o'clock i and actually i responded so i apologize for that but yes
 i fully support it that's all right i just need to know what y'all are hearing okay care would you please call the wrong jones yes yes scroggins yes bunch yes kirk yes herzberg yes harvey yes okay now let's go on to number five
 A resolution to authorize the city attorney to seek condemnation in possession of certain lands owned by the Stanley W. Smith Irrevocable Living Trust needed for the Midtown Corridor Project, CRISP.
 Thank you, Mayor. We have two properties before you this evening. The next two council items are both related to the Midtown Corridor, specifically the section of the project on Sycamore between
 Garland Avenue and the Skull Creek Trail. This section of road will include three lane cross-section so continuous turn lane with two two driving lanes, sidewalk on the north side and a 12-foot trail on the south side. So these properties that are before you today are needed in order to move forward with the
 construction of these improvements. We are getting ready to bid the project using a construction manager and are expected to begin the work in March of 2023. So this process that we're talking about tonight is really just beginning. It is a somewhat lengthy process. So that's why the request is before you tonight as we prepare.
 to move forward with bidding. For this particular project, it's located at 1641 North Oakland Avenue, so the corner of Oakland and Sycamore. We are needing some right-of-way utility easement, drainage easement, and a temporary construction easement on the property.
 We have offered $50,000 total for all of these easements and have not been able to get an acceptable agreement negotiated with the property owner. So we're requesting authorization to send this to the city attorney to begin the condemnation process.
 I also want to say we've got about between Sycamore and Dean, we've got about 80 properties that we have to acquire. We're really down to about three that we've not been able to negotiate. So we've been pretty successful in negotiating the vast majority of these. We just have a few that we've not been able to. So we are requesting authorization to move to this next step. I can answer questions on this one.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Chris from the council? Chris, you know, it may have been in here. How long have you been trying to get this worked out? You may have said that. I did not say that. Thank you for the question. Yes, we began the acquisition, sent out the initial offers in January of this year. So it's been about a year.
 closing in on a year of acquisition. Okay, and you have been in contact with these people, but just have not been able to work out a compromise. Right. Okay. Yeah, in this particular instance, and your packet includes kind of a summary of our contact and the concerns or issues that might have been raised, so in this particular instance,
 instance, there are some the drainage along Oakland is it's kind of a large drainage system and the property owners have been asking us to add that to the project and really at this point it's not in the scope of work and so that's kind of what we're what we're hung up on. Okay, okay thank you.
 Chris, did I recall last time that you said that you would continue with the negotiation process and still try to get a deal worked out even if we do pass this condemnation tonight? Yes. We will continue up to a point and then once we send it to the city attorney, they typically send another letter saying, hey, we're getting ready to move forward with this.
 Really, that negotiation can continue all the way up to the point before the jury makes a decision if needed. And I think, as Kit mentioned, I think we've had...
 maybe one that got all the way to a jury. All of the other ones have been resolved at some point along the way. So, Kit, you might want to... Yeah, that is correct. In 21 years we've had, since I've been city attorney, we've only had one go all the way through a jury trial. We had one that kind of got to the jury and then got settled after the jury was even selected. So you can see that
 We do not stop negotiating and trying to work out a deal, but we have to be fair to our taxpayers and our ratepayers as well as the property owners. So we can't just offer the moon because somebody doesn't want to let us have the land that we need for a very important project. But we will continue to negotiate just like we have in the past, and we have –
 So far, I had a very good record of being able to get these settled. I'm a little bit more nervous on the major water line that is going up to the Tawny Town area. I think that's going to be more difficult. But we always are going to try to see if we can settle these out if we can. Okay. Anything else? Let's take some public comment then.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone in chamber like to address us on this topic nor on zoom okay so i'll bring it back to the council what's wishes the council this is a resolution
 I move we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Church? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, let's go on to number six. A resolution to authorize the city attorney to seek condemnation in possession of certain lands owned by Charles N. Mays needed for the Midtown Corridor project. Crispin.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is the same project. This property is located at 1641 North Leverett, which is the corner of Leverett and Sycamore. This is a much smaller acquisition. It's mainly just drainage easement with some temporary construction easement. The value, the offer that we made to the property owner is $4,340. I'm...
 fairly confident that we will be able to get this one negotiated out the property owner's been asking or saying that he's going to get an appraisal and do other things and Hasn't done it as of yet. So if we do receive that and can You know get that worked out. We will it is a very small amount of money relatively So I think this will probably get worked out but we would like to have authorization to move to the next step just in case to keep this on track and
 Okay, what questions do we have? I have a question. Go ahead. So Chris, what is our process to determine the value of property? Do, you know, because this person that says I'm going to get an appraisal, but
 You could have three appraisals and they could all be slightly different. So what's our process that we go through? So typically we start with, we'll look at the value based on the assessor's office. We will take some representative appraisals. If we have a large group of properties that are similar in value, we'll get an appraisal on one or two of them and then kind of project that to the others.
 Then, as we go, if we can't negotiate based on that information, we will—and before we move to the condemnation and filing the condemnation—we will negotiate.
 acquire an individual appraisal for each property. We have various methods for trying to negotiate that. Then we also will accept counter offers from property owners if they have information. They recently refinanced and had an appraisal or something like that. We'll accept that as evidence of what their value is. Thank you.
 okay any other questions we already taken public comment i'm fixing to do just that very thing now we'll take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber allowed to speak first those participating by zoom we'll speak after that do we have anyone in the chamber like to address on this
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's wishes the council? Will we approve the resolution? Second motion second to pass resolution any final comments from the council care would you please call the roll? Jones yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes Yes Kurt yes Hertzberg yes Yes
 Okay, what announcements do we have? We have anything? Mayor, just of course everybody's watching the thermostat and trying to take care of making sure everybody's safe and able to escape the cold. We did receive a news release from Seven Hills about the consortium that is working to help people so there will be information forthcoming on that.
 further simply to announce that we will have our christmas holiday schedule would be friday the city hall will be closed and monday city hall will be closed
 Residential trash routes should run as normal, although of course depending on whether tomorrow or Thursday we'll have to monitor and adjust. And anybody with questions about schedules and the process during the holidays, please visit the website or give a call to City Hall. Thank you. Have a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. Yes. I also would like to just make a couple of short comments.
 I want to thank the City Council for their leadership this past year. I know it can be a challenge at times, but y'all have done a fantastic job. I want to thank Sarah Bunch, the Vice Mayor, for filling in for me for three meetings. I want to thank Mark Kenyon. He filled in a meeting for me. Mark, I want to thank you. And I also want to thank the City Attorney.
 I want to thank the city clerk treasurer for their work and keeping everything rolling along. And I want to thank my chief of staff, Susan Norton, and the staff of the city. They work so hard every day and make and provide the service that we all need. So all of us together, you're making a difference in the lives of the citizens of this city.
 if nobody's told you thank you here lately i want to say thank you to all of you thank you so thank you mayor thank you mayor jordan thank you happy holidays everyone merry christmas everybody thank you slum for your service thank you mark for your service your service and mark yours too