I would like to call to order the City Council meeting for December the 21st 2021. Kim, would you please call the roll? Jones? Here. Kenyon? Kenyon? Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here.
 Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, our first order of business tonight under recognition is a presentation to Matthew Petty for his 12 years of service on the City Council and President.
 It is an honor for me to present this award and it reads, Presented to Matthew Petty in recognition of your commitment to the citizens of the City of Federal Arkansas from 2009 to 2021. With sincere appreciation for your dedicated service as a council member on the Federal City Council.
 And I want to take a moment to say, Matthew, how much I appreciate your service, your dedication, your hard work, and your vision. And what a help you were to me as a new mayor, as you were a new council member. And we spent 12 years together. And I personally, I can't tell you how much you're going to be missed by the city council.
 the citizens and myself personally, but I want you to know that I am in tremendous, I have tremendous gratitude to you for the work that you've done for the city. So I present this to you. I'm gonna do my best not to tear up. I just wanted to take a second. It's truly such an honor to receive this and when Mayor, when you were just
 Reading the years, I never set out to have a career on a city council. And whenever I resigned, it was truly with mixed feelings because I love the position. And I've been reflecting. And I remember I came to you in February of 2016, and I remember that conversation very well.
 And one of the things I remember that I said to you, I want to repeat tonight. And Lionel, you were always a mentor to me, and I love you for it. Thank you. And I've been reflecting on something else during my time. You know, I earned a reputation at the city and in the community for being someone who would try. And I've been reflecting on something that former Fayettevillian, someone I've never had the chance to meet, but many of you have, former President Bill Clinton.
 And he says, to be a good leader, you have to be tough as nails and you have to have a tender heart. And if I'm being honest with myself, I don't know that my heart was ever tender enough to really accomplish what I really wanted to do. And I can truly say tonight that of all the people I got to serve with over the years, the people I ended my service with, the people I got to serve, I truly love each and every one of you.
 I love this city, but more than that, I love the people who live here and who work here and who make it their own. So I want to encourage you, maybe as my last words, a lot of you are more tenderhearted than I ever was. Be tough as nails, too. Thank you. Thank you so much. Well, again, thank you, Matthew, for your service to this city. Okay.
 The next thing we have tonight is the Nominating Committee Report by Sarah Bunch. Sarah. Oh, can't hear you. I'm unmuted now. Yeah. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. This is our Nominating Committee Report and Recommendations. We met on December 15th and 16th of 2021.
 For Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, we recommend Tiffany Henry, one term ending 12-26, excuse me, 12-28-26, and Tracy Morgan, one unexpired term ending 12-28-25. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Active Transportation Advisory Committee, Arnold Smith, one bicycle advocate term ending,
 ending 1231-23. Nathan Eikenberry, one term, ending 1231-23. Airport Board, David Hinton, one University of Arkansas term, ending 1231-26. Monty Roberts, one aeronautical term, ending 1231-26. We have one vacant, unexpired aeronautical term that ends 1231-25 that's still out there.
 Animal Services Advisory Board, Emily Sledge, one unexpired business representative term ending. I actually think that should be one unexpired citizen at large term. I did not catch that, which would be ending 6-30-24. I'm sorry. That's my fault. So Emily Sledge, one unexpired citizen at large term ending 6-30-24. We'll get that straightened out.
 Audit Committee, Chad Reed, one term ending 1231-24. Botanical Garden Society of the Ozarks, Catherine Hipp, one term ending 1231-24. And a newly formed commission, the Commission to Preserve Historical Black Structures and Cemeteries and to Create Black Historical Markers.
 Lois Bryant, one member familiar with the historical black church, with a historical black church in Fayetteville, term ending to be determined.
 JL Jennings, one member at large term ending to be determined. Tracy Morgan, one member at large term ending to be determined. Caleb Turner, one member at large term ending to be determined. Joetta Walker, one member at large term ending to be determined. Wendell Huggins, one member at large term also to be determined.
 Energy Improvement District Number 1, Anthony Miletus Callahan-Burrell, one term ending 1231-23. Matthew Kelly, one term ending 1231-23. Jonathan Fitzhugh, one term ending 1231-23. Environmental Action Committee, Thomas Deere, one community citizen at large, term ending 1231-24. Valerie McClendon, one community citizen at large, term ending 1231-24.
 Joe Donahue, one local industry term ending 12-31-24. And we have vacant, one unexpired community citizen at large term ending 12-31-22. Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, Will Dockery, one term ending 12-31-24. Yari Davis, one term ending 12-31-24. Doug Walsh, one term ending 12-31-24. PEG Advisory Board, we had no applications received for that.
 Urban and Forestry Advisory Board. We have John Crow, one university representative term ending 12-31-23. Ken Easton, one community citizen at large term ending 12-31-23. And William Chesser, one unexpired tree service community term ending 12-31-22.
 And that's what we have, Mayor. Thank you. Okay, thank you. I will entertain a motion and a second to accept all the nominations by the nominating committee. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept all the nominations by the nominating committee. Kim, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Yes.
 Harvey yes, okay. Thank you all now. We have a walk-on item I have a walk-on item tonight for the council that we just got prepared today. It's a resolution to accept dr. Dick Bennett's generous hundred thousand dollar gift and
 and to establish a trust fund that will be made available as a pass-through to other agencies who may provide climate refugee resettlement services. And Kit, I would appreciate it if you would read that resolution to the city. I guess we need a motion to second to put it on the agenda. Let's put it on the agenda and then I'll be happy to read it. I move we place this on the agenda. Second. We have a motion to second to place it on the agenda. Kim, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Whereas the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and many other scientific institutions around the world report that there is growing evidence that various climatic and extreme weather events are creating an increasing number of climate refugees being forced to leave their homes.
 And whereas uninhabitable heat, droughts, soil erosion, wildfires, and weakening monsoons, compounded with a melting cryosphere, sea level rise, and flooding, intensify these climate impacts on persons living in various parts of the world.
 and whereas long-term Fayetteville resident and a founder of the local nonprofit Omni Center for Peace, Justice, and Ecology, Dr. Dick Bennett, approached the mayor's office with a proposal for his personal gift to establish an endowment in the amount of $100,000 to address a long-term potential rise in migration and need for refugee resettlement services due to climate change and war.
 And whereas after consulting with the chief of staff, the chief financial officer and the city attorney, Mayor Jordan is recommending that the city of Fayetteville establish a trust fund to accept this generous gift. And whereas the city of Fayetteville, as a caring and welcoming community, already participates with refugee resettlement services via Canopy NWA and other faith-based initiatives,
 And so it is fitting for Fayetteville to continue to create more ways to welcome and assist refugees to Northwest Arkansas and Fayetteville while we continue our focus on goals for net zero emissions and better climate resilience. Now therefore it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby accepts and expresses its thanks and gratitude to Dr. Dick Bennett for his generous $100,000 gift and establishes a trust fund that will be made available as a pass-through to other agencies who can provide climate refugee services and resettlement services. That is the resolution. OK.
 Well, I would just like to say Dr. Bennett has always, as Matthew said earlier, that I was a mentor for him. Dr. Bennett has been a mentor for me. I've known him for probably about 50 years. And he's always been compassionate and a caring individual. And I just, I can't thank him enough for his generous gift here tonight that he has given to this city.
 And I'd be happy to take any questions. I think it's pretty straightforward what he's wanting to do. So this is a resolution. We would need a motion to second. I will take public comment on this. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on topic.
 No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and Then those in person in chamber after that. So What what public comment do we have by zoom? No one mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in chamber like dress on this? Okay I'll bring it back to the council. We need a motion in a second then Mayor I have a question before we move forward. I
 So, if this fund is established, can others donate to this trust fund? And how will...
 How will the decision about which agency or which nonprofit, how will that be made in terms of the amounts to donate? I'm just wondering about process. And I do want to sincerely thank Dr. Bennett. He's been a mentor to me as well. He's a fantastic guy. And I think this donation just illustrates the kind of person that he is and has been his entire life.
 Well said and all the questions on how all the finance steps gonna work on I'll be happy to Teresa What we anticipate doing is in fact what the resolution says will create a trust fund and
 Now that trust fund will be there. Point, we'll vet and look for the best available organization to carry out the wishes of this endowment. If other care to donate for the same purpose, we can add to that fund. As long as the purpose is the same, exactly the same. But again, we'll vet to get the best organization that we can.
 and go through that organization to accomplish the purposes of that trust. Does that answer your question, Theresa? Yes, I have one more follow-up, as I always do. In the future, the city could also donate to that fund if they chose to do so. Is that correct?
 No. In this particular case, and Kit, you can add to this if you can. Part of the issue is, Teresa, we can run grants, et cetera, through the city to help individuals, which is that is exactly what we do here. That's exactly what our grants for HUD funds are like. However, the city cannot fund that specifically to help specific individuals. And Kit, do you want to comment on that? I imagine you'll agree with me on it. Thank you.
 Yes, this is not a financed by the city fund But however, it is been established and it can receive more contributions And I would think that the city if there was a grant or something that the administration felt was worthy would bring it back to the City Council and that the City Council approved whatever grant the administration might want to To issue in this particular case and now we will do Thank you
 okay anything else from the council what action items would you all like to take this is a resolution and if we pass the resolution second we have a motion second to pass the resolution is there any other final comments from the council okay again i want to thank you dr bennett for your very generous uh contribution to uh this trust fund and and i want to thank susan and paul and kit for all their work on getting this all set up thank you all very much
 With that, Kim, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Now for the consent agenda. So if any of you all need to step out to get coffee or a haircut or go to dinner, I'll be still reading all the consent agenda when you get back. All right. Number one, approval of the December 7th, 2021 City Council meeting minutes. Number two...
 resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of thirteen thousand one hundred and forty three dollars representing community development block grant program income and donations from citizens and local businesses a
 Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $1,000 representing donation revenue to the Federal Fire Department from the Bank of Federal for the annual Employee Service Awards event. Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $173,843, recognizing revenue associated with...
 federal and state law enforcement forfeitures. Number five, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $2,100 recognizing donation revenue to the federal police department. Number six, a resolution to authorize the purchase of asphalt materials for use by the Transportation Division on an as-needed basis through the end of 2022.
 Number seven, a resolution to award bin number 22-01 and authorize the purchase of reflectorized paint markings from Time Striking Incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices.
 as needed through the end of 2022. Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 22-02 and authorize the purchase of curb and gutter construction services from Sweetser Construction Incorporated in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2022.
 Number nine, a resolution to award bid number 22-03 and authorize the purchase of truck hauling services from True Love Dirt Works LLC as primary supplier and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2022.
 Number 10, a resolution to award bid number 22-04 and authorize purchase of concrete from Toon Trucking Incorporated, DBA, Toon Concrete Company as primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2022. Number 11.
 A resolution to award bid number 22-05 and authorize the purchase of aggregate materials from Hunt Rogers Materials LLC as primary supplier and to authorize use of other bidders based on price and availabilities needed through the end of 2022. Number 12, a resolution to award.
 award bid number 22-08 and authorize the purchase of plastic drain pipe from ferguson waterworks in variable amounts and for varying unit prices need through the end of 2022.
 Number 13, a resolution to award bid number 22-09 and authorize the purchase of concrete drains pipe from Surlock Industries as primary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2022.
 Number 14, a resolution to award bid number 22-11 and authorize the purchase of retaining wall blocks from industrial precast, incorporated in varying variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2022. Number 15, a resolution to award bid number 22-12.
 and authorized the purchase of high performance coal mix asphalt from emory sap and sons dva hudson's construction company llc as needed through the end of twenty twenty two number sixteen a resolution to award bid number twenty two dash fourteen authorized purchase of tree grapes from nea
 Foundry Company as primary supplier and the purchase of tree frames from Ferguson Enterprises as primary supplier and authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through the end of 2022.
 Number 17, a resolution to award bid number 22-15 and authorize the purchase of preformed theraplastic pavement markings from Kaviko Markings Incorporated's primary supplier and Enos Flint Incorporated's secondary supplier in variable amounts and for varying unit prices needed through the end of 2022. Number 18.
 a resolution to award bid number 22-16 and authorize the purchase of native stone boulders from rocket natural stone incorporated in variable amounts as needed through the end of 2022.
 19. A resolution to award bid number 22-17 and to authorize the purchase of lights, fixtures, and poles from Premier Lighting Group in variable amounts and for varying unit prices as needed through the end of 2022. 20. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $28,921, representing donation revenue to the Animal Services Division.
 21. A resolution to approve Amendment No. 1 to the contract with IPS Group, Inc. in the amount of $311,500 for the purchase of additional parking equipment services and to approve budget adjustments. 22. A resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a three-year service agreement.
 with Park Mobile LLC pursuant to a National Co-operative Purchasing Alliance contract for mobile parking payment solutions in the downtown and entertainment districts. Number 23, a resolution to approve an agreement with
 AMG payment solutions pursuant to a National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance contract to consolidate the credit card processor for all parking-related credit card payments. Number 24, a resolution to approve a five-year professional services contract with First Security Bank for the provision of investment management services.
 Number 25, a resolution to authorize a five-year renewal of the contract with Tyler Technologies Incorporated for annual maintenance of the new world enterprise resource planning software.
 number 26 a resolution to authorize acceptance of an Arkansas Department of Aeronautics grant in the amount of $250,000 to approve tax order number four with Garver LLC in the amount of $45,000 for design bidding and construction phase services associated with fuel farm rehabilitation project at Drake field and to approve budget adjustment number 27 a
 resolution to authorize an agreement with route where global percent to Houston Galveston area council co-operative purchasing contract in the amount of one hundred and twenty seven thousand nine hundred and thirty six dollars for the purchase and installation of route where software and hardware to be used in the recycling and trash collection division fleet number twenty eight a resolution authorized contract between
 between the City of Federal Arkansas and Federal Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Federal for the year 2022. Number 29, resolution to authorize a contract between the City of Federal Arkansas and Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $123,000
 $524 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2022. Number 30, a resolution to award bid number 21-78 an authorized contract with
 nec incorporated in the amount of four million three hundred and sixteen thousand six hundred and thirty one dollars and ten cents for construction of the missouri creek drainage improvements project to approve the project contingency in the amount of 319 600 and to approve budget adjustment this is a 2019 drainage improvement bond project number 31 a resolution to authorize
 a three-year contract with Ion Wave Technologies Incorporated,
 through the Arkansas Office of State Procurement for electronic bidding and contract management software in the amount of $19,810 for the first year with automatic renewals for up to two additional one-year terms and number 32 a resolution to approve a one-year contract with the University of Arkansas Razorback Transit with automatic renewals for up to four additional one-year terms in an annual amount of three hundred thousand dollars
 for the provision of public transit services within the city of Federal. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. I make a motion we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. The motion is second to accept the consent agenda as read. Kim, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now moving on to finished business. Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-073 located at 2434 North Dean Solomon Road for approximately 5.06 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre to C2 Thoroughfare Commercial. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading.
 And if we go to the second reading. Second. Yeah. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kim, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 And in order to rezone that property as described in the rezoning petition, RZN 21-073, located at 2434 North Dean Solomon Road for approximately 5.06 acres, from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to C2 thoroughfare commercial. Jonathan, do you have anything on this? You have 10 minutes.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the City's Development Services Department. Staff did receive a proposed bill of assurance from the applicant yesterday. That was also shared with the City Attorney's Office. I don't have anything new to add from staff standpoint, and I believe Suzanne Clark and Matt Lewis are present there to speak to the bill of assurance that may be proposed. Thank you. I'm happy to take questions. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the Council? You have 10 minutes.
 Good evening Mr. Mayor and Council. I'm Suzanne Clark. I'm a lawyer here in Fayetteville and I'm representing Lewis Brothers Leasing Company Incorporated in their appeal of the Planning Commission's denial. I won't go through everything we talked about at the last City Council meeting. Just a reminder that this property, about 80% of it is already zoned C2 and we are asking that the remaining 4.5 to 5 acres be allowed to be zoned C2 and that it is already being
 for automotive dealerships throughout that entire stretch of property along I-49. My client
 very much took to heart the comments of council and wanting to have some level of assurance with regard to what the Lewis Brothers would be doing with regard to landscaping and lighting, though they don't have full plans in place yet. And with that in mind, a bill of assurance was offered and contains these specifics, that along Dean Solomon Road, the landscape buffer that would be required would be 15 feet.
 that would be increased to 20 feet. The tree density that would be required is one tree every 30 feet. That would be increased to one tree every 20 feet.
 The continuous shrubbery that is required at three gallon pots would be increased to five gallon pots so there would be an immediate impact in terms of the landscaping that's submitted. Along Moore Lane, the tree density along Moore would be doubled so that instead of one tree every 30 feet, it would be one tree every 15 feet. And again, the continuous shrubbery would be in five gallon pots.
 plantings as opposed to three gallon with regard to the the lighting the concern obviously in this rezoned area being that there is some residential property across the street
 In the bill of assurance, we obviously will have to comply with all of the lighting code that the city has in place. But we included in that an example of the type of fixture that would be used and specifically called out that.
 it ensures 0% up light with this particular fixture. And in areas that would be facing to residential areas, that the light bleed would be less than 1%.
 And I did have a conversation with our city attorney, the exhibit for that lighting fixture. I've been encouraged that it may be a little bit overkill and a little bit redundant. So I have got another copy with exhibit B here tonight that pairs that down a little bit to four pages as opposed to about 12, I believe. And for the record there, it is
 What was submitted to the city, it is pages 1 and 2.
 pages one and page three of that exhibit and the last four pages there were only two that had content two and three of that so I've got copies of those available for you for you this evening but but but there's enough specificity obviously there even though plans are not in place that the city most certainly could hold my client accountable to be sure that the landscaping and lighting is in line with what's being projected
 I also wanted to mention that even though the city was not interested in the discussion about the property on College Avenue and potentially rezoning that UT, my client instructed me to remove the contingency that I had in that application.
 and so that application for seven acres of the property on college avenue is moving forward to rezone it from c2 to ut there's no contingency no strings on that so regardless of what you do tonight there will be seven acres of property that will be moving forward to convert to c2 and that's because my client in good faith is saying that we do want to try to work with you to be sure that we're meeting the city's goals
 as well as the Lewis Brothers goals. And that's a way to try to show the good faith that in an area they're not required to, they will voluntarily rezone that as UT. So with that, I will turn it over to Matt Lewis
 And just ask that you please grant the appeal so that the 80% of the property or the 20% of the property that is not C2 can be zoned consistently with the remaining 80%. Thank you. How much time is left, Susan? Five minutes. Five minutes.
 good evening mr mayor and council members as suzanne stated we've worked we've worked really hard in coming up with a very attractive bill of assurance with both the landscaping and the lighting control along dean solomon and the portion of more lane the increase in landscape buffer in conjunction with the increase in tree density along these areas will provide a nicer curb appeal
 and we'll provide a divider for the residents that the council and the residents were looking for. Also, starting with more mature shrubs, we will accelerate the look by multiple years. And in addition, with the proposed LED lights, there will be zero uplight and less than 1% of light bleed around the perimeter. Now, there was some concern that came up among some of the residents in the area.
 specifically the residents of the Pines. So I'd like to address that. This came in late and came to my attention, but as soon as it came to my attention, I reached out to the POA manager, John. We called together a quick board meeting last night with all of the board members from the Pines. I spent about two and a half hours there last night answering questions and going over concerns.
 The majority of these concerns were about the traffic, and really it just boiled down to the unknowns. Somebody was doing development in their area, and they didn't know what it was about. For the traffic, we reviewed the entrances.
 I explained to them how we had narrowed down our entrances to just two. One main entrance, which is on Shiloh, which will be where the majority of the customers come in for sales and service, and then only one on Dean Solomon for employees and delivery. We also reviewed the closing of the entrances for the businesses of King Electric, TDS Copiers, and The Block Company.
 Or in fact, we're going to be closing three entrances to reduce the traffic on Moore Lane and Dean Solomon. In addition, we talked about traffic flow to and from our business.
 specifically where customers would enter and exit the property for sales and service. This is going to be located on Shallow Drive. Having the main entrance on Shallow Drive frees up both Moore and Dean Solomon. By the end of the meeting, the board members were at ease. It came down to that somebody was developing in their neighborhood, and they had a lot of questions about what was going on.
 We ended it with the acknowledgement that there will be open communication and that our intent as a long-time Fayetteville family and business owner was to be a good neighbor and to work together.
 As I promised during our last meeting, and in good faith, we are rezoning the seven acres of C2 land off of College to UT. This will align this side of the town with the City's plan, allow growth, and actually reduce the overall C2 acreage in Fayetteville. It's been submitted and is on the agenda for January 10th without any contingencies on our part.
 To recap, the piece of land we're asking to be rezoned tonight is along an area that currently has automotive dealerships and in fact is only about 20% of the entire property that is already C2. It makes sense for an automotive dealership to be in C2 zoning, and it makes sense for the land asking to be rezoned should match up with the same zoning as the remainder 80%.
 As a long-time family-owned business in Fayetteville, I just want to say thank you from the Lewis family. Thank you for allowing us to work together to find a solution that works for both of us. Thank you. Thank you, Matt.
 Mayor, before we go forward, since a bill of assurance has been offered by the applicant, we need to amend the ordinance to make it subject to the bill of assurance. And that would be to add subject to the bill of assurance at the end of the title and also at the end of section one. So that should be amended so we can accept the bill of assurance and have it enforceable.
 Okay. I move we amend the resolution to include the letter of assurance, or the bill of assurance. Is that all I need to do, or do you want something else, Kit? I think that that's it. We just need that motion and the second interval. I'll second it. Okay. We have a motion and a second to add the bill of assurance to whatever the city attorney said. Okay.
 Which was added to the end of the Section 1 kit. Yes, it becomes part of the actual rezoning ordinance if we make it subject to it. And, of course, that provides protection for the neighborhood, and that's what the City Council probably would like to do. That's what I want to be sure everybody's clear on. All right. Do we have a motion? We got a motion and a second? Yes. Okay. All right. What comments do you all want to have on the bill of assurance? Anything? Okay.
 or the amendment kim would you please call her up jones yes canyon yes scroggin yes bunch yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes okay thank you all now that it is amended what questions do we have from the city council for the applicant or the staff on this okay let's take some public comments then
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken in segment of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic. No rude behavior Please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in the council Chambers after that who do we have on soon Susan nobody mayor? Okay. I'm gonna
 bring it back to the chambers. Anyone in the council chambers would like to speak on this? Yes. Good evening, Mayor. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. Right around the corner from this, and it's part of my walking, or in my better days, my jogging route. Today I read a guest commentary in the NWA Business Journal that recycled the old trope that Fayetteville's hostile to developers, and I just...
 It made me roll my eyes a little bit because I know that the staff and the Planning Commission and City Council here that I've come to know are they go out of their way to cooperate with developers and to facilitate their projects But they do it in defense of the interests of the community in the neighborhoods That's what some of the comments at the last meeting were a little bit troubling the applicant talked about partnership and
 with the city and told stories from the last 80 years of working with y'all. But then they kind of always bring up the other property and other things that they've done. It's almost like they're trying to cash in karma points to get their way on this one. Some of you seemed a little eager to go along with that, and that made me kind of nervous. So I want to remind you of the thing that we always hear that
 What if it sells to somebody else and they want to do something different under the zoning that's allowed? So I think you'll have the big picture absolutely 100% right. A car lot on Shiloh makes perfect sense. No one's going to argue with that. It'll be an improvement over Williams Tractor. I hope that you will work with this applicant to facilitate that development. It fits and that's the big picture.
 But your planning commission saw details that led them to an eight to one vote against this proposal.
 They recommended denial, so did staff, and I hope you won't be distracted by 80-year-old feel-good stories about the applicant and forget to look at those same details here. So Shiloh is already zoned for this. There's no change necessary for them to do what they're asking on Shiloh. But when the applicant acquired additional land on Moore Lane and Dean Solomon, they knew that those were going to need a different consideration.
 You're not considering a car lot development tonight, at least I hope not. This is a rezoning, and that's land policy. It's a change in policy, and that means changing the possibilities of what this land can be used for. So let's look at what's possible there today. The part you're talking about changing is just five acres. It's currently RMF 24. There's basically nothing there right now except for the legal right for someone to build 120 homes.
 Those would be 120 homes that are less than a third of a mile from the highway. They're seven tenths of a mile from the nearest bus stop. It's virtually across the street from Underwood Park and that's what we would lose if you approve a change tonight. The frontage across Dean Solomon is part of a PZD that dictates
 Development that's similar to our neighborhood services Zoning, you know up close to the street parking in the back the the sorts of urban design issues. We talked about a lot and
 If you decide to trade the possibility for 120 homes for the possibilities that are included in C2, then we have to take all the possibilities that come with C2. It could be a car lot. It could also be a large commercial entertainment facility, or it could be an adult live entertainment venue. I wish the applicant would come back with a PZD for this so that there was more certainty all around.
 I think that would be the best partnership, but I get it. Those are big and complicated. I do appreciate their bill of assurance tonight But it's real nitpicky and I think it kind of misses the point They'll screen it with trees and make sure that we have a very specific lighting fixture But my request of the applicant would be to simplify their bill of assurance use policies that are already proven to work in our city code and
 they could commit to have the Dean Solomon and more lane frontage in front of the pines at least, comply with the minimum buildable frontage, the setbacks in the design requirements of either community services or NSG, kind of like the other PZD in the area did. It wouldn't hurt to limit its uses also to avoid the possibility of some of those other things if the property were to change hands, but I think that's unlikely here.
 I hope you won't approve this request tonight without those assurances that the development is going to fit into the neighborhood and not just be screened from it by trees.
 I have one additional challenge for the council, and that's if you recognize that you've adopted plan after plan after plan setting the public policy of the city, and in all of those they emphasize the attainability of housing and they de-emphasize our dependence on automobiles.
 So if you decide to replace the possibility of 120 homes tonight that are within walking distance of a bus stop with a car dealership, okay. Maybe that's the best use of this land, but I would love to hear from each one of you. I would like for you to identify. Okay. Kyle, they're telling me your time. All right. Well, I would love to know where you would add capacity for 120 units of housing somewhere else in the city. All right. Thank you. Thank you.
 I should note for the record that the bill of assurance says that the use of the petitioners property shall be limited to an automobile Dealership and no other uses were included. Okay, we also like to address this in the chain Okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an Ordinance it's on the second reading and what discussion and actions with council I take I
 Hearing no discussion, I would like to move to the third reading and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Cambridge Police, call the roll. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 And the ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 21-073 located at 2434 North Dean Solomon Road for approximately 5.06 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to C2 thoroughfare commercial. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? Mayor, I'd like to make a few. Okay.
 I just want to say how much I appreciate the applicant going out and discussing this complicated issue with the members of the Pines group down the road and trying to accommodate some of their concerns, as well as some of the council's concerns. So thank you for doing that. And I appreciate you going after and making those concessions. Anything else from the council?
 Okay, so a yes vote would be in support of the appeal, correct, Kent? Yes. Well, if you're in favor of the rezoning, you would vote yes. Yes. Okay. Just want to be sure everybody's clear on that. Okay. There's no other final comments. Kent, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Alright, let's go to number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 21-074 located at 340 North Double Springs Road for approximately 9.92 acres from RA residential agricultural, RSF 1 residential single-family one unit per acre and RSF 4 residential single-family four units per acre to RSF 8 residential single-family eight units per acre. This was left on the second reading and
 would certainly entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading I move we go to the third and final reading second we have motion a second to go to the third and final reading image please tell row downs yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes Bunch yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes
 And known as the rezoned property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-074, located at 340 North Devil Springs Road for approximately 9.92 acres from RA, residential agricultural, RSF1, residential single family, one unit per acre, and RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RSF8, residential single family, eight units per acre. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have no new updates or information on this item, but I'm available for questions. I believe Corey Reynolds is here as the applicant for the request. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, City Council. I just want to add a couple things. We were stayed last time because there was a lack of public comment. We were giving them a little more time to come and address any concern they had. And I wanted to bring up the fact that I've spoken with several neighbors. They reached out to me. I reached out to them. We've had good conversations. I felt like their concerns were alleviated. I got all the fun with them. They were all happy and seemed supportive. The second thing I wanted to bring up is,
 The rezone, while we are going for RSF 8, our most efficient layout that we can get gets us approximately 38 homes. That would be absolute max, which would be 3.83 homes per acre based on our 9.92. So even if we were to get this rezone, we would still be under the
 the amount of homes that are currently allowed as it sits as its own today. So it's not going to be this drastic increase. It's going to take us from a potential of 27 to approximately 38 at max again. That number is likely to come in slightly less, but it would not exceed that. So I just wanted to make those two points. I'm happy to answer any questions anybody has. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have from council on this?
 Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration, broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person inside the chamber after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address this on this item?
 And let's make sure the timer's working. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. That's why I didn't pace myself very well last time. That's alright. I just I didn't have a timer to go by either so. To emphasize something that the applicant just said this will add 30 something housing units over nine acres. We just traded five acres and 120 units and
 of possibility. I offer this my full support because the Regional Planning Commission says that they anticipate that in the next 20 years from Fayetteville to Prairie Grove is going to be one non-stop continuous housing area. We're going to lose all of the the rural feeling in there because of the way that we're building and
 that starts to make you scratch your head at the what we consider sprawl and what we don't but if that's the case then we in our area of Fayetteville out that direction should be looking to densify that continuous housing area as much as we can this is a mild way to do it and I hope you'll support it okay thank you who else would like to address us from the public
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This was, we're now on the third and final reading. What final comments do we have in the council before we vote?
 Mayor, I have a comment. You know, I think I was the one that asked that we delay this for a couple of weeks to see if we received any additional public comment. I have not heard anything. I don't know if you have either, Councilmember Hertzberg, but I did not receive any additional comments other than before two weeks ago.
 Haven't received any either and I appreciate the applicant reaching out to the neighbors and anyone that might have a concern Okay, can which please color up Jones Yes, yes, yes Kenyon yes Scroggins yes, much. Yes Kirk. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Harvey Yes
 Okay, thank you all. Let's move to new business. Number one, a resolution to approve Amendment 13 to the
 to the agreement for operations, maintenance, and management services between the City of Federal Arkansas and CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $7,614,711 for services in 2022 and to approve project contingency in the amount of $380,735.55. Tim. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council. Just a second, Tim. Tim, let me read the ordinance. Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. It's a resolution. Go ahead. It's a resolution. It's a resolution. Sorry. Go ahead, Tim. Thank you. Thank you.
 When the original Nolan wastewater plant was upgraded in 1987, the city contracted with OMI, which is now CH2M Hill, for wastewater treatment services and has been doing that for the last 34 years. Also included now is the Westside Wastewater Treatment Plant.
 The last resolution for a five-year contract was in December of 2009 when the Fayetteville City Council passed a resolution which approved a proposed five-year contract subject to and contingent upon annual budget approval. It included two five-year successive options to renew. Amendment number 13 represents the third year of a second five-year renewal period.
 In the year 2022, the scope of services provided by CHM Hill will include to operate and maintain the Nolan and the Westside wastewater treatment facilities, as well as the 38 wastewater lift stations. The administrator of the city's discharge permits, as well as the air and stormwater permits and any other permits that apply.
 Manage the city's biosolids disposal program, manage the city's industrial pretreatment program, support the SCADA system network that monitors the water and the wastewater facilities, and it can continue to pursue permit compliance and operations for economies
 and efficiencies. Also to provide engineering services on an agreed to and as needed basis and continue to refurbish the sand filters at the Dolan plant on an incremental basis of one filter cell per calendar year. Due to the unprecedented cost overrun in 2020 last year, agreements moving forward will include this agreed to contingency amount.
 Staff does recommend approval of Amendment No. 13 for operations, maintenance, and management services between the City and with CH2M Hill engineers in the amount of $7,614,711 with a contingency of $380,735.55. This does represent an increase from 2021 of 3.75%.
 And the contract was modified for 2022 to ensure that the city is promptly notified by CH2M Hill if there is an expected incidence above the base fee. This item was presented to the Water and Sewer Committee last Tuesday night for their consideration and for recommendation to be forwarded to the City Council, and it passed by unanimous decision. Do you have any answer? Any questions you may have? Okay, what questions do we have in the Council on this?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those in the council chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this?
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. And what action and discussion items would the council like to have? I move we accept the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Kim, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No.
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Moving along to C2, a resolution to approve a one-time award for city employees for their hard work and dedication provided during the COVID-19 pandemic and to approve a budget adjustment. Missy or Paul, who has this? Missy? Missy has it.
 On behalf of Mayor Jordan, I'm bringing forward a recommendation to provide our staff who serve the city during the COVID pandemic a one-time service appreciation award in recognition for their dedication to maintaining essential services for our community.
 The amounts would be uniformed police and fire would be eligible for up to $2,000. Full-time staff would be eligible for up to $1,500. And part-time staff would be eligible for up to $750. Amounts would be prorated to recognize the service from the dates of November 1st of 2020.
 Through November 28th of 2021, excuse me, the item would cost approximately $1.8 million and will be financed with reserve funds generated from the reimbursement of revenue losses experienced by the city in 2020 from the American Rescue Plan Act funds.
 And if I may, on a personal note, I just wanted to mention that I started with the city just before COVID began. And I have seen firsthand the flexibility of our staff and how they've pulled together and really jumped in to keep things running. And I'm just thankful to work with such a great team. And I'm thankful to Mayor Jordan for being an employee advocate. And I'm on, I know Paul is on as well.
 to answer any questions that council may have. Paul, do you have some, how much time is left on their presentation? I know they have 10 minutes. Five minutes. Five minutes, Paul. I rarely take five minutes, Mayor, but I just want to make everybody clear on the funding.
 This is not premium funds program as anticipated or described under the American Rescue Plan Act. In fact, what we're doing, we're broadening the rules to include all of the employees. At the City of Fayetteville, the Mayor thought that was very important because they should all be recognized for this.
 and it is in fact being paid for by American Rescue Plan money that is in fact a reimbursement for losses calculated for the year 2020. So I want to be clear about that fact other than that Missy described the details of the plan and we're both here in case we have any questions. Okay what questions do we have in the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any councilmen. Please stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those in person in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Susan.
 Well, we have a few that have nobody's raised their hands mayor, so I'm not sure if anybody wants to speak Guess not. Okay. Well, I'm gonna bring it in back to the council This is a resolution So what action items are discussion with the council I tell I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Is there anyone from the public in the chambers like to speak on this issue now? I'll bring back to the council. I
 Mayor, I have a comment. I just want to say thank you for your initiative and staff's initiative of bringing this forward for our hardworking and dedicated employees during such difficult times. I've heard from citizens about water breaks and other kinds of issues that have happened, other kinds of emergencies. And everybody is, the citizens have said that
 and I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point.
 I just want to say just a short brief statement is that as a mayor of a city you'll be about as successful as your staff makes you and we have a tremendous staff they work very hard and they've worked extremely hard during this pandemic and this is in a small way that we can tell them how much we appreciate their service and dedication to this city and the citizens during this very tough time.
 Thank you, council, and I certainly would appreciate your support on this resolution. Okay. If there's not any other final comments, Kim, would you please call her up? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay. Thank you, council, very much.
 Number three, an ordinance to approve Vacation 21-029, the property located at 1624 North Linda Joe Place, to vacate a portion of a general utility easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of a general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, and therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portions of a general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance newly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, dedication of a general utility easement overlaying the existing 17-foot drainage easement. And number two, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay, Jonathan, you have 10 minutes. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is located kind of central northwest Fayetteville. It's just south and east of the new police headquarters site. It's in the, more specifically, it's within the Houston Meadows subdivision on the south end of Linda Joe.
 As you can see on the survey here, the property is currently developed with a two-family structure, a duplex, which you can see in light gray. The applicant is proposing to make an addition to it, which you see here outlined in red. Unfortunately, in reviewing their plans, they identified that the addition conflicts with an easement that bisects the property from north to south.
 which is the genesis of the request tonight, which is to vacate the easement that conflicts with that proposed addition. As you can see here, to correspond with that, the applicant is proposing to dedicate a utility easement along the existing drainage easement along that portion of further east along the property to make sure any utilities to the north or south can have a contiguous passage through this property.
 despite the vacation of the utility easement. With reviewing the request, the staff has identified no outstanding issues. All the municipal and franchise utilities have consented. That does include our transportation department, which maintains drainage easements to make sure they're still functioning.
 I did confer with our floodplain administrator who did note that there are some drainage improvements proposed, but they're all offsite to the east and there weren't any documented flooding issues on this property. So using that drainage easement as a utility easement was not of any concern in this instance.
 Staff is recommending approval with two conditions that Mr. Williams outlined. The first is the aforementioned dedication of utility easement to overlap the existing drainage easement. And the second is a standard condition with all our utility easement vacations, and that's that any damage or relocation occurs.
 needed of existing utilities in the easement would be done at the applicant or the developer's expense. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And there may, I believe, representation for this item is going to either be Justin Jorgensen or Lance Norrisworthy or Aaron Metcalf. Thank you. And the applicant would like to speak for the council. You have 10 minutes.
 Thank y'all. My name is Lance Norsworthy and I'm here on behalf of Lifestyles and Mr. and Ms. VanVerber. Just wanted to kind of, I'm sure probably most people are familiar with what Lifestyles is and what they do and represent, but I just want to just reiterate it. Lifestyles is a non-profit human service agency helping people with disabilities live full lives integrated into all aspects of community life.
 Lifestyles believes that community is for everyone, that all people have value, and that when adults with disabilities are given the opportunity and support to participate in communities, all lives are enriched. And I would just, not to take too much of your time, but just share a story from the owner of this property to lead you up to why we're asking for this to be done. So this comes from the owner, which has a disabled child.
 They said, 32 years ago when we were told that our new baby boy had blue eyes, blonde hair, and Down syndrome, we never could have dreamed that Thomas would have lived the life that he is living now. He said, I will skip the first 18 years of his life and fast forward to his graduation of high school. This was when Thomas assumed that he would be doing the same thing that his siblings have done, which was attend college.
 We had always heard what a wonderful organization that Lifestyles was, so we contacted them about the possibilities of starting a program at the University of Arkansas that would be aimed at providing a collegiate experience for young adults with disabilities. After months of developing a program in conjunction with the U of A, Program Launch was formed.
 the university would provide classrooms student ids unit uh university mentors internships etc and lifestyle would oversee the program and provide the teachers and the first part of thomas's dream had become a reality
 The second part of this dream was to move away from home and to have his own place. Once again, Lifestyles built this into their phase, into their launch curriculum. And many of the students have begun living in various apartment buildings.
 This also led to more independence since public transportation and job training would be included during this year. You know, a side note, during the cooking class that was held at Ellis' restaurant on the University campus, Thomas was asked if he would like to begin to work at Ellis'. And for the next seven years, he was a daytime dishwasher.
 Now after living in several different apartments with several different roommates, we knew that Thomas would never want to return home to live with us. He was living the dream. So in 2014, we decided to begin looking for a duplex where Thomas could live one side, a duplex where Thomas could live on one side and his younger brother Luke, who was now attending the university, could live on the other.
 You know, we were fortunate to find a duplex on Linda Jo Place that had both sides for sale. Linda Jo is a culture sack, is a culture sack of only duplexes, plexes that Lifestall now owns many duplexes on the street.
 You know, a few years later we were able to purchase the duplex that was next door to, which are two units that we are discussing tonight. After Thomas's brother moved out of state, we decided that it would be nice to have someone living close to Thomas that would be there to assist him in his needs. You know, he's lots of friends in the neighborhood, but we wanted to see if there was someone who worked at Lifestyles that might want to live next to Thomas.
 and be available for him and for some of the other clients. Our first choice was Jo Mehew, an Adult Development Coordinator for Lifestyles. Jo is a single mother with two children. She was thrilled with the idea that is exactly what kind of neighborhood that she had hoped to be able to raise her children in. A very diverse, kind, caring, and safe neighborhood.
 Jo and her children have now lived on Linda Jo for over two and a half years, and as if they are no longer neighbors, they have become family. Frequent basketball games in the driveway, jumping on the trampoline, or neighbor's cookout welcome whoever wants to participate. Every spring, Lifestyles clients who live on Linda Jo invite their entire neighborhood to join them for a luau.
 This is a neighborhood that should be modeled throughout our community.
 And this is why we are hoping that you allow us to make this addition to the duplex where Jo and her children live. They love their homes, however, as their children become teenagers, they're realizing the need for additional bedrooms. The duplex that is attached to Jo's is now owned by Lifestyles. We were able to donate it to Lifestyles a few years ago, and I hope that it would provide housing for some of the students
 who are now enrolled in the LAUNCH program, especially those who parents that live out of town.
 We remember the fear of letting a child with special needs go. We also know the joy of watching them succeed and become an independent, contributing member of the community. We want to be able to help Lifestyles provide a safe home and inclusive community for more of their clients, and we have realized that Jo and her family play an important role in making this happen.
 A single mother with two children have showed all of us what happens when acceptance, support, and inclusion are how they live their life. The example they are setting, Life Change, is not only for lifestyle clients, but for the rest of their neighbors.
 you know, for the peers of Joe's children and for the many families who now know that their child's dreams can become a reality. And I hope that each of you will drive by the north end of Linda Jo Place and see the well-maintenanced front yard complete with holiday decorations and several chairs for visitors and will make you smile and agree that this is what a neighborhood should look like. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, do we have any questions for the applicant or the staff on this from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets five minutes. Five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay, is there anyone in the chambers here that want to speak on this?
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Council, this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion or action items would you all like to take? Maybe if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Kim, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Tartt? Yes. Hartsburg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. In ordinance to approve vacation 21-029 for property located at 1624 North Linda Jo Place to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. And before we go to the third and final reading, I would just like to thank the applicant for
 very heartfelt explanation of lifestyles. I've known and supported lifestyles for a long time, but they've come so far. It's a great thing that you're in Fayetteville. Thank you for all your work on that. Thank you, Kent. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch?
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. An order is to approve Vacation 21-029 for property located at 1624 North Linda Jo Place to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? All right. Kim, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Turk? Yes. Herzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you. All number four, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 21-076 located at 5295 West Weddington Drive for approximately 2.43 acres from R.A. Residential Agricultural to
 NSG Neighborhood Services General and RIU Residential Intermediate Urban, KIPP. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA, Residential Agricultural, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General, and RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This site is in West Fayetteville. It's on the south side of Weddington Drive between Broyles to the east and 54th Avenue to the west. It's about equidistant between the two streets. It's currently developed with a single family home located pretty close to Weddington.
 And as you can see on the aerial image here, it is a fairly unusually shaped property with about 10 times the depth as it has street frontage on Weddington. It's about 100 feet of lot width on the street and it goes south about 1,000 feet. Natural characteristics on the site include a fair amount of tree canopy as you get closer to Weddington and then located along the fence lines to the east and west.
 And then of course, again, as you can see on the aerial image here, the blue and red and blue hatching you see on the south end of the property is the floodplain and floodway associated with Owl Creek. The request before the council tonight is to rezone the entirety of the property, which is currently RA, residential agricultural, to a mix of NSG, neighborhood services, and RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 The area to be zoned in SG includes just over half an acre along Weddington and with the balance of the property totaling about one and three quarter acres to residential intermediate urban.
 When considering the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff's findings were somewhat mixed. On the one hand, there is attached residential being developed and under construction immediately to the east, and some more existing attached residential, a few lots removed to the west.
 While on the other hand, this is still largely a rural area since it's a larger lot and some property is still being used as pasture. But it definitely, as it is located on Weddington, is moving more towards development as time goes on.
 Looking at it from a long-range plan perspective and through that lens, staff did find the request to be generally consistent. The future land use map does have a split designation of the property, the majority of which is designated as residential neighborhood area. The portion that is not designated residential neighborhood area follows the Owl Creek floodplain and our future land use map calls it out as natural area.
 Staff strongly feels that both the proposed zoning districts speak directly to the residential neighborhood area designation. Conversely, neither district explicitly observes the intent of the natural area designation, which is meant to encourage little to no development. From a city plan standpoint, and despite the fairly low intel score, which you can see here ranging from two to four for some of the more baseline standards for developing a property.
 Staff does find that the two zoning districts proposed can very much complement some of the goals in city plan as it relates to developing properties in a compact, complete way where housing can be built at higher densities and be built next to non-residential uses to create the foundation for a walkable neighborhood.
 Other issues that staff considered with the request, I already mentioned the floodplain before, but there's also consideration of the adjacent rezoning and development of the property to the east
 Taking the floodplain first, there's certainly two philosophical standpoints here. On one standpoint, you could say that the property should not have any entitlements increased on it in the area of the floodplain. Alternatively, you could depend on the city's standards for floodplain development. Ultimately, on this site, staff felt that our floodplain standards were adequate to protect the Al Creek floodplain in this area.
 With regards to the rezoning to develop to the east, that property originally came through on appeal to the council in 2020. It was proposed very similar to the request today, except there is a portion of residential agricultural land kept along the floodplain. And ultimately it was approved by council with a bill of assurance that limited density on the RIE portion of the property included assurances of
 of street stub outs in the east and west and that the NSG portion of the property would be developed non-residentially. Since that time and it's rezoning, plans have been submitted and it is under construction. You can see the plan here as it relates to the property you're looking at tonight in red. So this would directly connect to it if it was developed with the street stub out that's being built right now.
 with that staff and the Planning Commission excuse me I'm sorry that is incorrect staff in the Planning Commission do recommend approval I apologize for that error there it was a vote of 6-0 so this was not this is not before the council on appeal tonight it was forwarded with recommendation
 The comments in support by the Planning Commission were acknowledgement of the Council's decision on the land to the east. They felt that the current request is consistent with that and complementary to the overall future land use map. With regards to public comment, all we've received at this point is an inquiry about the request, but no statements of opposition or support.
 With that, I'm available for any questions the council has. Again, I apologize for that error on the last slide. Planning Commission did recommend in favor of this. And I believe Robert Rhodes is present as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay. Do we have an applicant? Yes, Robert.
 Mayor, Council, my name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall-Estill. It's a pleasure to be here tonight. I'll not get into a formal presentation because I think, as always, Jonathan did a very good job. And of course, when you've got staff supporting your proposal,
 Um, and the six. So, um, planning commission, um, you probably don't need to really say a whole lot about those type of things, but there is one issue that I do think is, is probably needed to be covered. And, um, we, I actually, um, represented the neighbors to the east when they, when we brought that before you all, and as you all can tell that you all voted for it and you, you, uh, you rezone that, um,
 and a good bit wider piece. Then after that was finished, I was asked by a different party, but a related party, to see if we could get this piece rezoned.
 the two zones they asked for did not include a third zone at the bottom, which would have been, I guess you wouldn't say it was a, you wouldn't really call it a third zone. You would say the bottom would not be part of the zoning request and you'd leave that bottom if, Jonathan, if you could put that number 23 out of 24 back up that you had earlier,
 But if you left the bottom just RA, then I probably wouldn't have had some expression from a particular council member about, gosh, everything looks good with your proposal, except I really want to be able to protect the stream.
 The area that we're talking about is basically where that northern white line starts where the floodplain is.
 The reason that we included the whole thing is probably more so oversight than anything else, but also because there's a three-pronged approach that protects that piece of property. You've got FEMA right there in the heart of the creek, and then you've got the streamside ordinance that this is subject to,
 And then when we passed the last rezoning on the other piece of property, I think you all had just passed stronger drainage code. And with those three things, we felt okay, there is sufficient protection. And I think staff probably agreed with that. Now, we're very desirous of, we would love to see this go to a third reading and pass.
 But we also understand that there's that concern. And I guess if we could, we would, we would amend it right here and now and take that piece of property that I described out of the zone. However, I don't think we can do that because we'd have to have a legal description for it. So I say all that to say, I hope you all can rely
 on the strength of the city staff, the strength of the code, the strength of FEMA, and vote for this and allow it to go through tonight.
 So my folks can get on with their construction, which is going to be to some degree part and parcel with the piece that's over to the east, which as you can see, they're already building the streets. So that's my plea. Now, and I, gosh, I really don't want to give you an easy way out, and I hope you don't take it. I really hope you don't. But the easy way out would be to leave it, I guess, on the second reading, and then we can come back and probably amend it, which I'm going to.
 that kit would probably be opine on but i really really really on behalf of my client would ask that you depend on the strength of of again the engineers and staff and um and the the code that you have in place i stand ready to answer any questions okay what questions do we have for the applicant or the staff on this from the city council
 Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan?
 Nobody, Mayor. Do we have anybody in the chamber who would like to address us on this? Okay. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council what this is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussion or action would the council like to have and or take tonight?
 Mayor, I do have concerns about that southern portion that is in the floodplain in the floodway and and
 I would like to hold it so that the applicant could make those adjustments that he promised or is considering until for two weeks. Because I do think even though we have more of a, we've increased our regulation, as you know, I've expressed, I don't think these are sufficient adjustments.
 and leaving that in the lowest density is probably the best insurance we have to prevent downstream flooding, stream bank erosion, and other kinds of environmental issues that we have with our changing climate. Okay. Any other discussion? So do you all want to just leave it here for this? What do you all want to do? I think I would support Teresa to leave this here. Well, then if there's not any objections, we'll just leave it right here. Okay.
 all right let's move along number five an ordinance rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 21 days zero seven seven located south and east of dock tipton road and double springs road for approximately 39.88 acres from ra residential agricultural to rsf2 residential single family two units per acre kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes its own classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RSF2, Residential Single Family, two units per acre.
 Section 2 that city council city of Fayetteville are here by men's official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville Reflected zoning change provided in section 1. Okay, Jonathan. Thank you mayor This property takes us further west in Fayetteville We're towards the western southwestern Extents of the city where you can see on the aerial map here where the actual aerial drops off. That's Farmington that's our municipal boundary with with the city of Farmington and
 The property is most prominently at the southeast corner of Dot Tipton Road and Double Springs Road, but that doesn't fully characterize the extents of the property, which extend about half a mile east of there and actually come back into contact with Dot Tipton Road further east from Double Springs after wrapping around some intervening parcels.
 It is largely pasture land in nature. There is at least one old farm pond that appears to have been manmade or human made as part of the use of the property over the years. It has some interesting zoning history to it. In 2008, it was rezoned to a planned zoning district to allow for a clustered residential subdivision with an intermixing of open spaces.
 As you can see, it was never developed, and ultimately the PZD expired and was rezoned in 2015 back to its original RA, Residential Agricultural designation. Interest has remained in the property, largely because some infrastructure was installed around that same period of the PZD. There's a lift station and a water and sewer main that come from the north and bisect the property south to north.
 And as you all may recall from the agenda session, Mr. Nyander with the utility department did confirm that those are, it is an active utility or an active lift station and both water and sewer mains are currently active.
 The most recent action on the property was last year. A request did come to the Planning Commission in 2020 to rezone the property from RA to RSF4, residential single family four units breaker. Ultimately, that was denied by the Planning Commission and the applicant at the time did not elect to appeal it and so it since died. The request before the council tonight is to rezone the property.
 from its current RA residential agricultural zoning designation to RSF2, residential single-family two units per acre. Staff does find the request to be largely compatible from a land use standpoint. This is an area of almost entirely single-family homes. There's a wide variety of lot sizes ranging from quarter to third acre lots further to the north to larger agricultural properties to the east and west.
 However, when you look at the request from a future land use standpoint, staff found it to be by and large inconsistent.
 Our future land use map does call it out as a residential neighborhood area and while single-family homes definitely are an aspect of that Rezoning this large of a piece of property to a single designation like that doesn't afford the opportunity to build a complete neighborhood a mix of diverse housing types or the potential for Non-residential uses that can support a almost entirely residential area
 The council often hears people talk about congestion and traffic and everybody has to drive to any of your services the infill rating on the property largely reflects the the two mains I described earlier the water to remain that enter the property from the north and also a city park further to the north season I believe it's Harmony Point Park and
 Another item that rose to the it's worth considering and maybe at the forefront of the council's mind after the last meeting, given the request that occurred in Johnson recently, since this property does abut Farmington to the west, ultimately they would have to also consider and approve the proposal.
 That said, staff does recommend the denial of the request. The Planning Commission made a motion to forward the item with a vote that failed by two to four. Those who voted in favor of it noted that there was a compatibility with the large lots allowed in RSF2 and that it was an appropriate density for development in this part of the city, getting towards the urban edge of Fayetteville. The four who voted against it did opine on the lack of
 lack of amenities, connectivity in the area. And RSF4 was a sprawl pattern to develop with larger lots and the requirement for lengthier and lengthier stretches of streets, water and sewer to support fewer and fewer numbers of residents. And on the topic of public comments, staff didn't receive some prior to the planning commission, none at the meeting though. Those that contacted before the meeting were in opposition to the request
 But there were some that said that if it was developed with some additional buffering or landscaping, they could be more amenable to it. But as the council knows, this is a rezoning request and often they're not opportunities to consider issues like that. So again, staff and the Planning Commission are not supporting the request. I'm available for any questions you may have. And I believe Justin Cullors is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you.
 Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes. My name is Justin Cullors, representing Small Fish Builders, Small Fish LLC, for this proposed rezoning tonight. And thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Council, for taking time to hear this appeal. So...
 Jonathan did a great job of going over the background of this property which has kind of an interesting background back in 2008 it was approved for a hundred and eighty two units on this particular piece of property and maintained that rezoning for seven years before it expired and Was turned back to RA again
 It was re-zoned or applied to be re-zoned in 2020 by another builder slash developer and They were trying to attain an RSF4 which would have allowed about 120 units out there and I believe the general consensus of the Planning Commission was that Something of that dense nature did not fit in that area as it sat. So I
 We were presented with an opportunity out there to move forward with this project, with this property, and took a look at it and, you know,
 looked at how could we make this fit better with what is around it and uh as planning put up there just a moment ago i mean it's a big green island right now of ra land within the boundaries of the city limits it is bordered by rsf1 it is adjacent to rsf2 rsf4 and rmf6
 or basically right across the street. And now after a vote on a previous item tonight, now directly to the north and RSF 8. There's 39 acres out there. It is a bit of an odd shaped piece of land.
 against my engineers recommendations so the Planning Commission would not be steered towards design questions that tend to happen on these rezoning's when we put forth some sort of conceptual design I did pencil with a drawing up I believe mr. Kurtz has it I don't know if it's available to put up on screen we presented that at the Planning Commission meeting
 which resulted in some favorable comment coming back from some of the people that had called in, from some of the neighbors that seemed to be opposed to it initially upon hearing that there was a rezoning request upon seeing this image. That is a maximum capacity, very rough concept, just hey, does this thing have any legs under it?
 Right there, that's 61 lots. I know some of the citizens out there were concerned.
 RSF2, two homes per acre, half acre lots, potential for 80 homes. That's actually not realistic. Once you get your infrastructure in place, you're going to lose lots for detention ponds, potential park ground. You have kind of a strange piece over at the intersection of Dot Tipton and Devil Springs.
 amicable to looking at some sort of mixed use up on that corner as it doesn't really fit in with the Single-family homes that we have in mind for the rest of the property One of the things that was brought up in
 There were several different things. We wanted to appeal this because during that planning commission meeting, there was, you know, just as staff said a moment ago, it largely does align with Plan 2040, which calls for that area to be future designated neighborhood, which that's what we're presenting. After hearing staff report with no extreme negatives, we're going to have to make sure
 Planning Commission members went around, and even the four that voted against it
 didn't have any very strong reasons other than possibly not at this time. The chair that night brought up the point, this thing's been brought forward time and time again with several different ideas behind it and what it could look like out there. And the chair himself brought up the point, when is the right time? I mean, we've been looking at this since 2008. It was approved and it was disapproved.
 He agreed that this seemed like a very suitable transition from the RSF4, RSF6, all right there directly related to it. Trying to keep with a lower density development out there that coincides with its surroundings. Another comment was made by a commissioner that...
 I'm sorry, by staff in their report, this doesn't really provide attainable housing. I think I brought up a point at that meeting that attainable housing, by definition, that's housing that is affordable to households earning 81 to 120 percent of the area median income. There's other definitions of attainable housing.
 Blessed over the years to be able to do infill projects all around Fayetteville and very much support of them In the middle of some right now down South Street Done stuff down around Wilson Park off Maple love that stuff I'm also in support of the projects like this, you know for four years over the years projects like this have been brought forward Within the city of Fayetteville and they've been denied for various reasons because of that
 this type of housing, a home that
 a lot of people would like to attain in the city of fayetteville and enjoy perhaps a step up from a starter home have a larger yard that allows for larger families room to grow outdoor areas for pets recreation gardening outbuildings on-site storage hobbies there's a lot of people that would like to attain that but because of the denial of these projects over the years
 There's not a lot of this available. And what is out there could be defined by a lot as not attainable for a lot of people. I looked up some real estate offerings in the area right now on Zillow and Realtor.com just as of tonight, and I put in a search of homes for quarter acre to half acre lots, 2,250 to 2,750 square feet. Okay.
 There were eight pending in an average of $175 a foot, one for sale at $300 a square foot, and one at $250 a square foot. That's not attainable housing for a lot of people for a home that size. I mean, we're well over a half a million dollars for a 2,000-plus square foot house. That's what we're trying to achieve.
 get rezoned out here. That's the type of housing we're trying to provide. To address some of the comments from the previous meeting from neighbors, they did have some concerns we'd like to address. They mentioned not enough infrastructure in the area. As planning mentioned, there is an eight-inch water main. There is an eight-inch sewer main on site. There is
 a sewer lift station in use with capacity to handle a development of this type, which currently sits on that land without a dedicated easement from some work that was done previously, which we would be obviously amicable to be
 to providing that easement to the city should we be able to move forward on the project there were some concerns about drainage problems which obviously if we were able to move into design phase upon looking at this initially we believe we would actually vastly improve any any drainage problems for the neighbors
 The only traffic concerns brought up by some of the neighbors was when they were concerned it might be another 120, even down to 80 home development. This is looking like it might be more like 50 to 55 homes max, which would be very similar to the approval earlier tonight on a nine-acre lot that would be 38 homes. I believe it was 35 or 38, whatever he said.
 And the other concern was another kind of a cookie cutter tract housing type of development. This is far from what we're trying to do out there. I was born and raised in Fayetteville, not a big fan of tract housing myself, and that's not what we're trying to provide out there. These larger lots provide a platform where we could potentially do some custom or semi-custom homes that also would fit the area.
 Think I probably used up all my time and I'm happy to address another minute. I got another minute. Okay Well, let's see if there's any other points when I hit here I think I'm pretty much covered. I would love to take any questions if anybody has anything for me Okay, what questions do we have from the City Council for the applicant or the staff? Oh, I represented a cell that's contiguous with this reason. So I'll be recusing Okay
 I have some questions. So, Dot Tipton, that road is very narrow. I've had, before this development, I've had constituents call me about obstructions to that road, like, you know, the vegetation needed to be cut back and that sort of thing. And so I'm wondering now with the rezoning that we just did earlier in the evening and also this proposed rezoning, what's the impact?
 How could that street be widened? How would that work to make it much safer and be able to accommodate more traffic? Would that be on the developer or collaboration with the city? Because I do think that road is really a concern out there. Okay, what...
 Chris Brown, is he on? I don't believe Chris is on tonight. Jonathan, do you want to give that a shot? Certainly. Yeah, I can field that question. And that's always a challenge, of course, at this scale of a proposal. And I think Council Member Turk's nodding. She knows when a development comes through, we have to evaluate it for the impact it's having. And also there's a legal consideration for how much can be...
 requested of a development. What's the roughly proportional amount of improvement we can ask from a development for the impact it's having? Dot Tipton between 54th and Double Springs is about 4,000 feet long.
 I think it would be beyond the scope of this development to widen Dock Tipton along its entire length. To get to your original point, it is a narrow road. The documents I've seen suggest it's anywhere between 16 and 18 feet wide. The baseline road width in Fayetteville is 20, which is to meet fire code, allows two fire trucks to pass each other without anyone having to go off the road.
 that would be a baseline standard. That being said, I think there would be a few avenues that could be improved. With this development, it would almost certainly be the portions of the project up front that would have to be improved. That's a baseline standard. Otherwise, projects have to submit traffic impact studies with their development submittals. And as a part of that, under the city's new minimum street
 assess dollar amounts which we can put in a pot and eventually either match it with city work or as the we reach a critical mass of funds in that amount either we can disperse that to a particular developer at the at that point to make the improvement overall for a city project
 I think that's a long-winded way of saying I don't believe that Tipton could or would be improved with just this project. I think a good portion of it would be where it touches Tipton today, but that would certainly be a concern. I think also in talking about this project with our urban forest, it is a largely tree line road as well, so any road widening at all that would occur there would likely require
 and then we'll move on to the next item. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 Just to follow on with that just for a second. So the developer would have to or is likely to have to widen .tipton where the road meets the new development. Is that so you kind of have a really kind of hodgepodge of .tipton because there is that gap in there. Did I accurately capture that, Jonathan?
 Yes, it would be about 50 this property has about 1,500 feet on doc Tipton and like you said there is a gap I think of about 500 feet or three or four hundred feet in between that It's possible that that might have to be wiped in between I think we'd have to evaluate what eventually comes through with the develop whether that would be necessary for fire code there are certain fire code standards about if a subdivision gets to a certain size has to have two entrances and
 And to get to both those entrances, they have to meet baseline fire code standards. So it may be that this property would have to improve dot Tipton where it touches dot Tipton with street sidewalks, street trees, but the intervening piece may only have to be wide to beat the minimum fire code standards.
 I mean, that road is so narrow. I guess I'm not surprised that it's not meeting fire code. But, you know, with the increased population that we have, it would seem that the city would want to widen that also. So I'm just kind of thinking out loud here. But thank you for that. Terri, do you care if I jump in? Sure.
 I just wanted to make a comment because I know that that property directly across the street, the RSF4 that's now RSF8, I don't think that the developer of this property should have to be solely responsible for widening of that section because it's directly adjacent to the property we just rezoned which was a higher density. So I just want to make that comment.
 And maybe we can talk with Chris more about, with the Transportation Committee, about how we could widen the road, but I don't know that the developer should be involved.
 Well, I should probably point out that it's built that way because it was a county road before we annexed it. But oftentimes when we face a situation like this, a new development going in, and with the other one we're talking about too, oftentimes a cost share can be worked out between the city and the developers so that we get a better bang for the buck in trying to widen the whole road that serves everyone out there.
 Obviously both the developers that are coming in there. They're not responsible for all of that But that's why we do cost shares there like we did a cost year on Rupa Road to help save our costs to make Rupa Road Finally finished and so that's something the City Council can do is is determine whether or not a cost share situation would be one you'd want to work out with the develop deaf developers to improve the adoptive and
 At least make it at least 20 feet. You probably couldn't put everything on there like a regular city street, but this would be something that certainly the city and the city council could look at. Thank you, Kit. Could I have a comment? No, unless they ask you a direct question.
 Would you like to respond to that? Yes. Thank you. Yes, I would also like to point out that yes, that is an extremely narrow road and we would anticipate having to do some sort of
 of widening on there. It needs to be done anyway right now. As Kit just said, it's been annexed in and it's really not suitable for what it's serving right now. So we fully acknowledge that that needs to happen. And I also would like to point out, just across Dot Tipton, I'm sorry, just across Double Springs Road, there's currently a development going in. It's literally on the other side of Double Springs Road within the Farmington city limits. But
 I might ask council to consider that there are 500 homes being built over there right now that are hooked on to city of Fayetteville water and sewer and they will be sharing Dot Tipton in that right there across the street it's just going to happen when those homes are completed if we were able to get this rezoning completed and we could enter the design phase it would allow us to explore options to
 perform improvements on that too. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions for the applicant or the staff? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and those participating by.
 Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those who are in council chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Elizabeth Romley. Okay, go ahead. Hi, my name is Elizabeth Romley, and my family and I live at 20 North Double Springs Road, which is one of the properties that adjoin this proposal to the West.
 And I just wanted to say I really appreciated both speaking at the Planning Commission and speaking again tonight, and I appreciate you listening. Just a couple points that I wanted to make. First of all, I wanted to say that we do have some concerns about drainage and then respecting the property line to the east side of our property.
 But we believe that those would be better suited to be brought up at the development phase. And as for this phase, the proposed rezoning, we do want to speak in favor of it. We believe that it would be a beneficial use and it would be appropriate for the area. And especially if all regions can be made unoptended, we have absolutely no problem with it. And we believe that it should be rezoned as requested.
 Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay, is there anybody else in the chamber like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an appeal. It is an ordinance. It's on the first reading, so what discussion or action items would the council like to take?
 If there's no other questions or comments, I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Kimmich, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Bunch? Bunch. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes.
 Is that five votes? That's four, isn't it? I think it was five votes. It's five votes because . Mayor, do you care to vote? Yes. All right, then it passed. The motion to suspend the rules passed, and I'll read the second, go to the second reading.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-77 located south and east of Dot Tipton Road and Double Springs Road for approximately 40 acres from R.A. Residential Agriculture, which are RSF2 residential single family, two units per acre.
 Actually, I have one question for the applicant. Let's see if I remember what he showed on his exhibit. Did you show on your exhibit three lots along Dock Tipton or Devil Springs that you thought might be for commercial? We don't really have any plans. I know at the  yes, there are three lots there, to answer your question directly. Yes, we'd be open to looking at those as 
 What I'm saying now is right now everything you're asking is to be zoned residential so commercial couldn't go in there the way the application is right now. Correct. And we're okay with that for right now. Okay. I just wanted to make sure because if it was passed like this you wouldn't have commercial there. I know I think probably some of the planning commission and maybe some of the city council might like to see commercial there.
 If you left it on this reading then you might go back be able to go back and look at that So you might be able to offer something to the City Council. That's not just residential Especially if you're gonna have 500 homes going in south of you It is something consider given how much time we've we've got in on as of right now and given some contract constraints time wise I
 i'm going to choose to go ahead and try and move forward with this appeal if we are able to get this rezoning approved we absolutely are once we go into the design phase we're happy to look at a possible rezoning on that that's um handleable to the city thank you okay
 I would like to hold this right here, if we could, for two weeks so that we could get a little bit more information about what might happen with .tipton and how that would work. I'd like to hear from Chris and maybe get Chris Brown and maybe get that fleshed out a little bit more so that we would have all the information possible in two weeks. Okay.
 and also give the neighbors a little bit more time if they need it to comment. Teresa, I always want to support you in holding something, but I just wanted to ask the applicant. I know you mentioned time constraints, and I wondered if you would like to speak to that. And would two weeks be a hindrance to you, or what are your thoughts? Sure.
 I can't hear very well. Sorry. If we held it here for two weeks, would that be a hindrance to you or would that work with your timeline? No. We can do two weeks. We'd be happy to answer any questions we can if it would make people more comfortable with it. Absolutely. Perfect. I'd like to hold it for two weeks then. Thank you. Okay. So we're just going to let it sit right here. Okay. All right. So, yeah.
 That concludes our business. Susan, what announcements do you have? I don't have any announcements, Mayor. Okay. Well, this is our last council meeting of the year for 2021. We've got the agenda session next week. But as far as city council meetings, this is the last one we have of the year. And I want to thank this city council for all their hard work, the staff's work, chief of staff and all the staff's work for this.
 and her dedication and for thinking of the citizens of this city even more than herself. City Attorney, I appreciate your work. City Clerk's Office. And, you know, I was thinking about this today, how I'd reflect on the end of this, and I want to certainly wish everybody a great holiday season for their families coming up. I want you to have a wonderful time. I was thinking about all the things that we've accomplished, and we have seen a year that has been relatively challenging for us.
 2021 was very challenging, but through it all we've accomplished a lot of great things this year, despite the challenges that we've had. I know that we just received word this week that we received three Trendsetter awards from the Municipal League. And when you look at the Trendsetter, that's someone that always sets the pace, sets the trend, sets the mark. We received three of those this year and volunteer the City Awards.
 um also we're as far as being one of the best cities to live in the united states we were in the top 10 now you don't get there just by being complacent on where you are and i want to thank the city council for being the kind of council that pushes the envelope progressively and being willing to pay the price and not being afraid to do the things doing the things that other people won't do to have tomorrow
 the things that other cities won't have because they're too afraid to push the envelope today. So I want to thank you all for that this year. Thank the staff, thank everybody that has worked, and thank most importantly the citizens of this city for your support. And we'll continue to serve and we'll put you all before even ourselves. I want to thank everybody for doing that so everyone have a great holiday season. We are adjourned.