This is the Wednesday, January 8th, 2019 session of the Portland City Council. We're in session. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. Here.
 Fish.
 Hardesty.
 Here.
 Udaly.
 Here.
 Wheeler. Here. So before we begin, this is our first meeting, our first regularly scheduled Wednesday meeting of the Portland City Council without our colleague, Commissioner Fish. I'd like to start off by asking us to observe a moment of silence. And then we're going to do a few other things, but could we please start with a moment of silence to reflect on the life of Commissioner Nick Fish. Thank you. Today is the day that we reassign the responsibility of the council presidency. And today would ordinarily be the day that we would assign the council presidency to Commissioner Nick Fish, because he was next in the rotation. Before designating Commissioner Hardesty to be the council president, I'd like to nominate Commissioner Fish as the council president one last time. Retroactive to January 1st of 2020, second. We have a motion and we have a second. You'll notice that while Commissioner Fish isn't here today, we are going to place the council presidency badge at his desk in a moment. This is just one way that we can express our deep appreciation and gratitude for Commissioner Fish. There will be other opportunities, there will be other celebrations of life. And as the family publicizes those events, we'll make sure that everybody is aware of it, both the city hall family as well as the public at large. So we have a motion, we have a second. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? So as a middle child myself, I knew that Commissioner Fish would not like to be skipped when it was his turn. And so I suggested this to the mayor yesterday that we honor him by making him council president. I served with Nick for 11 years and knew him for almost 12 really well because he was running for the special election when I was running in 2008. and it's still hard to put into words what a great loss it is to the city and to his family, to his staff, to me personally and to everybody who knew him. And so I would encourage everybody to read his statement issued in December of last year because he had so many accomplishments it's hard to even begin to start of which ones to pick out. I do honour his staff who have been doing an amazing job. You know, Nick was really sick for two years, and most of the time you wouldn't know it, that he was in council a lot. I think if you looked at the record for last year, he was one of the most present. He was there when we referred the... Water Bureau's ballot measures to the ballot in June. He was the third vote for approving the contract to do the filtration plant. Every bureau you ever have you become really attached to it and you are always looking after it and so Nick was certainly a good partner being in charge of environmental services. He did an amazing, amazing task in restoring public trust in the utilities during Mayor Hales's administration. I I I know we're all feeling for Patricia and Maria and Chapin. And that was another thing that Nick did really well, was he managed to balance home life and work life. And I thank Maria and Chapin and Patricia for letting us have so much of Nick. People don't realise that when you're on the council, you're just on all the time. You go to the grocery store at 10 to 11 at night trying to get your family a jug of milk and somebody's right there telling you, could you please do something about homelessness? Thank you for bringing that to my attention. And Nick not only did that, but he went out of his way to meet with people and make sure that they knew that he was listening. And so, aided by amazing staff in his office. So I'm very honored to move the plaque for President of the Council to Commissioner Nick Fish. Hardesty. Thank you. I've served with Nick Fish on the council the least amount of time, but I have known and fought with and laughed with Nick Fish for many years. I don't know how many people remember that Nick really, really, really, really wanted to serve the city of Portland on the city council to the point where he ran three times before he actually was elected. To me, that's tenacity. Most people, they get bruised in an election and they're like, I'm never doing that again. So not only did he persevere, but he became an incredible statesman. I battled in this chamber with him over the years as I battle with everybody that has served in this chamber at one time or another, but always with respect, always with humor, always with compassion. And I'm going to miss Nick. I will say that when I was running for the seat, Nick was running for the election. And there were many, many days that he was sitting next to me and I would go, you need to go home. Why are you here? Sometimes he sent surrogates, but most of the time he showed up. And I told him, I said, people will forgive you for not being here. But it was important for him, wanting to be reelected, that he showed up in the public forums. And so I have a lot of respect, again, for the tenacity of Nick Fish. I will miss him, and I vote aye. Udaly? I think I'm the crier on the council. I'm the crier. I'm the crier. I was crying just for himself. Okay. So I'm really unprepared to say all the things that I have to say about Monsieur Fish, which is fitting because I was also really unprepared for his passage. I spent winter break in the hospital with my son, sick myself, so I couldn't get a final visit in with Nick. I was still hoping against hope that he would be coming back to us again. or that he would finally take the break that we all encouraged him to take to focus on himself. He carried himself with such strength and dignity through this illness that I don't think even people quite close to him realized how dire his condition was. I had written a tribute to Nick on Thursday in the lobby of the hospital. It just flowed out of me and onto the page, and as I was putting the finishing touches on it, I lost the file. I was frustrated and exhausted, and I couldn't conjure it back up. And a few hours later, I learned of his death. I've really been unable to put words to my thoughts and feelings since then, so I'm going to tell one of my favorite... Nick stories and save the rest for later. Shh, you guys, I'm sorry, I just cannot get this fog out of my throat. I walked into these chambers to take my seat for the first time three years ago almost to the day. I had no idea what to expect as a political outsider and newcomer. Three of my four colleagues had endorsed my opponent. No offense, anybody, it's just the reality. And there's very little onboarding for new commissioners as I keep complaining about to Tom Reinhart. I want that to change. Nick was the first to greet me. He said, welcome and congratulations, Commissioner Udaly. You're the president of the council. I thought he was hazing me. But it was in fact true by some odd council rule that the newcomer to the council became president on the first day and was to serve in the mayor's stead in his absence. That moment marked the beginning of a warm, friendly, and really supportive relationship which never wavered through all the ups and downs of our time on council together. I think a lot about the impact of the work we do now on future generations, about how decades from now, when we are largely forgotten, our invisible fingerprints will still be left all over the city. Commissioner Fish made some of his finest marks in affordable housing, environmental services, parks, and the cleanup and restoration of our waterways. But my personal debt of gratitude to Nick is that he welcomed me in and insisted i take my place not as an outsider but as an integral part of something much bigger and more important than ourselves or our differences it was an honor to serve on this council with him he brought such valuable knowledge and history equanimity humor civility and an endless willingness to find the reasonable amicable compromise as our unofficial mediator and middle child of the council. My love and gratitude and sympathy to go out to his family, friends and staff. You will be missed dearly. Wheeler? I really appreciate the words of my colleagues and they speak for me as well. It was an honor to have known Nick Fish and to have served with him. Before I served with him, he was also a friend. And I still remember the first time I met him. It was purely coincidence. And life was different back then for both of us. The very first evening that we went out together, he introduced me to some people who are still some of my best and closest allies. And he never stopped from that very first time that I met him. We continued to enjoy that kind of relationship. He was a great connector. He was loved by many, many people in this community. and I came to appreciate very quickly that he was a highly intelligent, very thoughtful individual. He also had a great sense of humor and I don't want to lose sight of that. That was one of the things I really loved about him, was he had an understated but really thoughtful and intelligent sense of humor, and I'll miss that about him. I want to note that he was a politician's politician. And I mean that in a positive sense. I know the word politician has become sort of a dirty word. It's become something of a jab. But Nick really embraced the good things and what a politician should be. He did the hard work. He would be in the community. He would go to the rubber chicken dinners. He would meet with constituents, whether they were supportive of what he was doing or whether they were angry with him. and embraced it all. He didn't do it because he had to, he did it because he loved doing it. It was in his DNA. And I often wondered over the years why Nick chose to be here, because I'm going to tell you something, Nick could have done anything. He could have gone anywhere in elective office. He would have been right up there with the giants of the United States Senate. He could have followed in his forebearer's footsteps and been a fantastic Secretary of State. He was a statesman. He understood the importance of compromise in a time when people are bitterly divided. And the word compromise, unfortunately, has become something negative. But Nick made it something good. He understood that in order to make things work, in order to get what you need done, you have to compromise. You have to listen to other perspectives. You have to work with people who have different ideas. And that means you give something up in order to get something in exchange. And he was a master of the game. He was a master. and he could have been anything but he chose to spend his life here he chose to put the best that he had behind being a portland city commissioner he did not aspire for higher office he was not trying to seek a different career he gave the best years of his life in that seat over there and he did it because he loved it and he loved the city and he loved you and it was genuine I was just proud to know him. You know, there's something I'm going to do to personally honor Nick. I was trying to think, what can I do? How do I reflect the good work that he has done? I've told my staff that 1 of the things I really liked about Nick was reliably every day coming into work. I would pass cafe embryo. And Nick would be there early in the morning meeting with constituent every day. And sometimes I recognized the people he was with, sometimes they didn't, sometimes they were laughing, sometimes it looked like they were yelling. But he was out there and he was meeting people one on one. Nick, I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that as a way that I can help take what I think was the best of what you offered here in this chamber and make it part of the way I do business going forward. That's what I'm going to do for you, Nick, to honor you. I want to also acknowledge the real pain, the real hurt, and the real healing that the Fish family is going to be going through. Patricia and Chapin and Maria. I don't think Patty would mind if I told you that she came into my office the other day and we sat, we had the chance to visit. And the first thing she did was extend her condolences to me. If that doesn't say something about the character, of that family. The City Hall team is really hurting. Nick's entire staff, most of them are here in the room today. Sonia Szymanski is Chief of Staff. She's been working for quite some time with our staff to help make sure that this transition is a smooth one and a thoughtful one. And others from around The city hall orbit are here in this chamber today, because they wanted to come and they wanted to remember and recognize and reflect on and celebrate the life of Nick fish. And I want to acknowledge all of you as well. Carla, you worked in this chamber. For many years alongside commissioner fish, and I know you're hurting and I want you to know we support you. So. We're sad today, but I also want people to know that as the weeks and the months and the years roll on, we're going to look back on Nick Fish and his life. And we're going to smile a lot and we're going to laugh a lot and we're going to say we were all better in this community was better for having had Nick Fish in it. We're fortunate to have known him. I vote aye. Now I have two other motions. Commissioner Fritz. I move that Commissioner Hardesty be president of the council moving forward. Second. We have a motion and we have a second to appoint Commissioner Hardesty president of the council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. Hardesty. E. Daly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The motion passes. And then one last thing. As Commissioner Udaly mentioned, we've had a tradition that we just go down the rotation. I'm Commissioner seat number one, Nick was two, Commissioner Hardesty is three, and Commissioner Udaly is four. And it just happened that when Commissioner Udaly took office the very first day she was president of the council, she did a magnificent job, let's be very clear. And the president of the council takes over for the mayor when the mayor is out of the country or if something happens, the president of the council is on the disaster policy council in the event of a major natural disaster or other attack or whatever would be right there at the command center. So it would be better if... a chyfarwyddwyd gyda chymdeithas newydd am rywfaint o amser ar y cyngor i ddysgu sut mae pethau'n gweithio yn y ddinas cyn bod yn rhedeg i'r rôl honno. Felly, gyda'r rhwydwaith, bydd y Prif Weinidog y Cyngor Udaelei yn ddechrau yn ddiwethaf y flwyddyn hwn ac mae hynny'n golygu y byddai prif weinidog y seit nifer un yn ddechrau yn Ionawr os ydym yn parhau i wneud hynny. Felly, heb gwybod pwy fydd fy mhrydrwydd yn mynd i fod, rwy'n symud y byddai'r cymrydau yn dechrau gyda'r mwyaf unedol o'r Cyngor a mynd i lawr y rôl. Felly byddai'r mwyaf unedol o'r Cyngor ar gyfer ymlaen bob ddwy flwyddyn ar gyfer 1 Ionawr. Byddai hynny'n golygu bod y mwyaf unedol yn cael cyfnod o'r cyngor cyn iddynt fod yn Prif Weinidog. Felly dyna pam rwy'n gwneud y cyflwyniad hwn. Rydyn ni'n cael cyflwyniad. Rydyn ni'n cael cyflwyniad. A oes unrhyw drafodaeth ar y cyflwyniad? Cofiwch ei alw. Fritz. Dyna'r sbith mwyaf rwyf wedi'i wneud am fod yn Prifysgol y Cyngor. Diolch, cydweithwyr. A. Hardesty. A. Ud-Eili. A. Wydler. Mae'n gwneud llawer o dderbyn. A. Mae'r cyflwyniad yn cael ei gyrru. Gwych iawn. Felly byddwn ni'n symud Oh, I'm sorry Robert, I forgot the rules of order and decorum. Thank you Robert. Thank you Mayor. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and needs to do the city's business. The Presiding Officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. Gallwch hefyd ysgrifennu ar gyfer ymddiriedaeth cyhoeddus ar y cyfnodau cyntaf neu'r cyfnodau cyntaf o'r cyfnodau. Dylech chi ymddiriedaethu â'r peth sy'n cael ei ystyried ar yr adeg. Os nad yw hynny'n gwneud hynny, gallwch fod yn cael ei reoli heb awr. Pan fydd yn ymddiriedaethu, gwasanaethwch eich enw ar gyfer y record. Nid yw eich adrwydd yn angen i chi. Gwasanaethwch os ydych chi'n lobbyst. Os ydych chi'n cynrychioli sefydliad, gwasanaethwch ei ddysgu. Mae' Pan ydych chi'n cael 30 munud arall, mae lliw gwelth yn mynd i mewn. Pan ydych chi'n cael eich amser wedi'i wneud, mae lliw rhedeg yn mynd i mewn. Os ydych chi'n ymwneud â'r cyhoedd a fyddai eisiau dangos eich cefnogaeth am rywbeth sydd wedi'i ddweud, os ydych chi'n hoffi, gwnewch dduw ychydig. Os ydych chi'n hoffi ychwanegu nad ydych chi'n cefnogi rhywbeth, os ydych chi'n hoffi, gwnewch dduw ychydig. Os ydych chi'n hoffi, gwnewch dduw ychydig. Os ydych Mae llywodraeth amrywiol fel sioed, testymoi neu ddilyniadau cyngor neu cyngor yn ddim yn cael ei gael. Os yw'n amrywiol, bydd ymwybodol y bydd ymwybyddiaeth ymhellach yn ymwneud â'r person sy'n cael ei ddod yn y cyfnod yma. Ar ôl cael ei ddod yn y cyfnod yma, mae person sy'n angen i ffwrdd i ffwrdd yn y cyfnod yma yn cael ei ddod yn ymwneud â chyfnod aros am trestaf. Diolch am helpu'ch gweithwyr Portlandwyr i'w teimlo'n dda, yn hyfforddus, yn hyfforddiol ac yn si� a chyflwyno i Mary Ann Schwab i gyngor ynghylch cynllunau parci a chyfrifoldeb ar gyfer distric parci o ran y lefiad plant. Diolch yn fawr, Mary Ann. Diolch am fod yn ymwneud â ni. Mae'n dda. Diolch yn fawr. 3 munud. Mae'n dda. Diolch yn fawr, Gweinidog Wheeler, Cyfranogwr Udaily, Fritz a Hardesty. Er cyfrifoldeb, fy enw i yw Mary Ann Schwab. Rwyf wedi byw yn y barri ym Mawrtheg oed o 1971. For many years, the City of Portland promised the Southeast residents that a park and recreation facilities would be made available to them at the old Washington High School site. Mr. Mayor, you may not recall us bringing this issue to you during your first meeting in your first term. To date, all we have is that promise, and we are concerned that the threats of Prosper Portland investors may dash even that promise. I would ask the City Council to pass a resolution stating their intent to retain the Portland Parks and Recreation 4.5 acres open field located at Southeast Stark and 12th Avenue. For recreational use in the future, and not sell it or develop it for non public uses purposes, roughly 6 years ago, standing outside council chambers, commissioner Nick fish told me there was nothing he could do to fund the inner Southeast recreation center until the fix our parks bond expired 2020. At the time of his passing, he was leading discussions on how to provide stable funding for parks, deferred maintenance, and resources to close the service gaps, providing new parks in neighborhoods where needed. As the rip destiny in the city increases, so does the need for open space and recreation facilities. Children have to have a place to play, to learn to swim, just to be children. Parents need a safe place to take their children and recreate with them. Let's retain the proper promise. and possibilities by expressing their intent to save the old Washington High School 4.5 open acres for future generation in a resolution. I'm told today's city budget is $4 billion. The $100 million proposed inter-sonic construction would cost what? 5%, 1.5%, or 1%? The figures are beyond my comprehension. I'm reminded that when attending the Mayor's annual budget review some time ago, Martha Pellegrino, Office of Government Relations, stated her budget was like the flea on an elephant's tail, much like my $100 million to construct that site. Here is to peace and prosperity for all Portlanders in 2020. Respectfully, your constituent, your rebel rouser, and I will return. to every budget hearing to make sure that PDC, Prosper Portland, still retains the $900 $85,000 unspent of the 5.4 million we paid for the 4.5 acres. The most beautiful dog park in the city. Thank you. Thank you, Marion. Can I get a copy of your testimony? You'll get them. I wanted your full attention and not to go through all the attachments with it. Thank you, thank you. I appreciate it. I'd love that. My next stop, City Archives. I want this on a web where anyone in the city can track what's happened because I'm at a jumping off point. I don't want to come down here and be assaulted ever again. Thank you. Thank you, Miriam. We appreciate your being here. Carla, could you read the next three names together? It looks like they'd like to talk about the same item. Okay. Item 2, request of Lee Cowless to address council regarding an increase in Portland traffic fatalities in the first half of 2019. Number 3, request of Sue O'Neill to address council regarding an increase in Portland traffic fatalities in the first half of 2019. And number 4, request of Layla Cowless to address council regarding an increase in Portland traffic fatalities in the first half of 2019. Good morning. Thank you for being here. And we'll give you a second to set up. Thank you. While I'm doing that, Commissioner Fish did a number of projects with the people of Park Rose, and some of the civic groups and the school board have asked me to convey condolences and thanks to Commissioner Fish, his staff, and family. Thank you. We appreciate it very much. Let's just get our seconder here. We have toys so you don't have to look at me. Ready? Yes. No, we're not. Did you hear the beginning? Okay. And again, three minutes each name for the record please. I'm Lee Coles. I was born and raised in Park Rose. I've been a dentist in Park Rose for about 30 years. I was here last June to discuss some concerns and red flags concerning the Vision Zero project on 102nd. I'm back because I care deeply about Park Rose and Portland. Vision Zero was adopted by Portland City Council in 2015. with two goals, to eliminate traffic fatalities and to eliminate serious injuries. You see on the chart here that since that time, we see the traffic fatalities and some other very interesting statistics. Unfortunately, 2019 was not a good year and had the most fatalities of any year since 1997. Regarding this extremely alarming trend, we're grateful Commissioner Udeli made a great observation. And she said, it's not just frustrating, it's deeply troubling. I've been asking myself, what are we doing wrong and what can we do faster? So we're here today to try to get some help with that. ODOT and PBOT have provided stats on accidents since 2008. On 102nd Avenue, since 2005, there have been three fatalities. They all had one thing in common, they were all DUII. Project was started in July of 2019. It will continue. I need to explain this chart just a little bit. The main changes are that the streets went from four lanes to two lanes. Bike lanes were added. These are crosswalks and these are cement barriers. One of the key things is there will be no enforcement of any kind on this street for DUIs or for speeding for anything. So I don't know if this- I'm sorry, what? What are you talking about? Just a moment, it's interrupting us, three minutes. There will be no- We can stop the time here. Vision Zero and PVOD has made it clear there will be no enforcement on 102nd. That's simply not true. Proud and thankful. That's what's online, that's what they told us. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Commissioner Daly, who I was here before, or Hardesty, who I was here before, you made it sound like you're familiar with this area on 102nd? Yeah, I live there. Okay, great. Oh, I hope it's okay to pick on you. Um, considering these changes, does it seem to you like there will be no more DUII potential drivers on 102nd? Have these changes done anything for that? It doesn't seem like it. It's a public comment. We're here to listen to you. Okay, sorry about that. We'll do that again. Um, PBOT and Vision Zero hasn't studied the cause of fatalities on 102nd as they haven't done for most other streets in their projects. And therefore, the changes that they've made are not going to make any changes in that. There's still going to be the risk. In 2015, the council approved Vision Zero even though Vision Zero at that time had no cities with completed projects and they still don't. New York City has had Vision Zero for five years and yet their fatalities have not appreciably changed for the same reason. They don't look at the causes, identify them, and then make solutions based upon those. The second item has to do with serious injuries. Since 2005, these are the serious injuries on 102nd. Two DUI, two speeding, four turning onto or off of 102nd, two rear end, and two side swipe. You notice that the last eight are pretty much accidents of congestion. Studies nationwide conclude that the best method to decrease speeding and also DUI is enforcement. Again, according to what's online and according to what they've told us, there will be no enforcement on that. And they've said that even for the other streets, there will be no increased enforcement. So that is the end of my part. Are there any questions? Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Susan O'Neill. I'm also here on behalf of League Goals and the 102nd Vision Zero Project. Vision Zero has, again, the two goals stating that they're going to eliminate traffic fatalities and serious injuries. I'll discuss the Vision Zero about eliminating the serious injuries and the consequences of the Vision Zero Project. Again, we use the Northeast 102nd Project as an example. Northeast 102nd had two DUIIs, two speedings, two turning off of 102nd, two rear ends, two side swipes. Note that two-thirds of the serious injuries involved congestions. Studies nationwide concluded the best method to decrease speeding and also DUIIs is enforcement. But again, PBOT has stated and made it clear that there's not going to be any increase or enforcement. of this. Regarding accidents on the congestions accounting for 67% of the serious injuries on 102nd, in August of 2019, Commissioner Udaly stated, we have a frustration born out of heavy congestion, we have a lack of enforcement which makes people think they can take more risks on the road. ODOT crash analysis supervisors confirmed that increased congestion results in increased crashes. ODOT has not published a publication that states that our increased congestion leads to increased crashes. I have read many of the publications he stated and this is a general belief and it is pretty firmly held in community safety. Again here on 102nd, Commissioner Harstey, if we may use you again. Seeing the changes, knowing the causes of the serious accidents, and considering there is no plan to enforce it of any kind, do you feel secure with the serious injuries and accidents caused from the DUIs? Or the speeding, congestion, have they been eliminated? I know you can't answer that right now. As with fatalities, the causes of serious injuries have not been addressed, so changes to stop them have not been made. Northeast 102nd, Pilot Division Zero was to be a six-month pilot program. Yet, they stated the pilot program was not going to be long enough to accurately measure the impact of the crashes. Instead, they changed it to be two things instead. It's going to project the impact of fatal and serious injury, crash risks, and the speeding along Northeast 102nd. Undesirable consequences to the project, such as increased congestion and traffic diverting to other streets. However, as we've just described, factors leading to fatal serious injuries, DUI spading, and congestions were not addressed at the project. Piedmont survey project completion did 560 surveys. 62 percent disapproved of the changes. Increased congestion led to increased crashes. Let's see, yet another update from vision. Sorry, I'm out of time guys. I wanted to show you also the photo of 102nd on a regular basis. 102nd, as you see on that street, on that over there, there is a concrete sidewalk. on a daily basis that third lane that has a concrete for people to safely go they go down that street where there's no turn lane and then they go against traffic on 102nd northbound it's happened every day at least three times a day i know because i work out there and i watch it go by in the front what's the intersection you're talking about 102nd and wygant wygant okay They did do enforcement. I'm sorry, but I want to let you know that they did an enforcement for three days with a traffic motorcycle. And I'm going to tell you, he probably made his year's salary with as many people as he pulled over in that three-day period because of speeding, school zones. I mean, I'm watching it every day. I'm watching the congestion. Your point's well made. I'm sorry. Your point's well made. I'm passionate about it. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate you all coming here today. We can't have a conversation right now. If you have other concerns or solutions you'd like to share with my office, please do so. But I understand that we've been in. very regular contact with Mr. Cowles for quite some time. I want to ensure you and the public that... I do get my three minutes, right? Yes, she hasn't testified yet. I want to, but just if I could take a moment, I want to assure you and the public that 102nd Avenue hasn't been designated as a street where there will be no traffic enforcement. That's just not accurate. Enforcement is a key part of Vision Zero. It falls mostly outside of PBOT and we just had a work session on it yesterday. So I'm really looking forward to conversations moving forward about how we, and the we I referred to in that quote Mr. Cowell's, was the collective we, the entire city, all of the bureaus, TriMet and ODOT, how we can all work together to make our streets safer because PBOT can't solve all the problems. traffic and traffic fatalities. And Commissioner Daley, if I could build on your theme here and then I'll get to Commissioner Fritz. I would, since you're obviously really passionate about this and you care deeply, and I appreciate this. I appreciate the detailed level of information that you're giving us. That's what communications is for, so thank you for doing it. I would really encourage you to review the testimony that was given yesterday during the work session on traffic enforcement, because I think it addresses some of the specific questions that you've raised in your testimony. It's worth a watch. Okay, thank you. We'll do that. And it's available online. And a couple of the things that I learned at that work session, first of all, the traffic enforcement division is going to be getting 25% more staff because their staff are not going to be assigned to patrol anymore. They're going to be focusing on traffic enforcement. enforcement. The new police chief, Chief Resch, shares the council's urgency over traffic enforcement. It is, as you mentioned, around 50 deaths is way too many. But the other thing I learned yesterday is that you can get trained to be a volunteer radar monitor. in a school zone that they will train you on how to do the radar, and then you take a picture of the license plate, and they send a warning to the person who's – you can't actually issue citations, but you can get people to get a warning letter. So that's something that Commissioner Daly and I are both really quite anxious to try. That's terrific. The information obviously we have is previous to this most recent thing, so that's great. That would be terrific. We appreciate that. Good. Thank you. Thank you. If you could restate your name for the record, please. My name is Leila Coles. It's not actually Cowles, but it is Coles. Thank you. Just forget the W, just exit out. To eliminate or reduce fatalities and serious injuries is to identify the causes and make specific plans to overcome the causes. Vision Zero and PBOT have failed to do so. And if it has changed, you have to understand we had no information on that before today. That's fine. In Portland- Our highly trained specialists in transportation and now safety analysis, independent of Vision Zero and PBOT. Someone similar to Robert King, a public safety consultant that I know that you know. Personal transportation safety expert Chris Kemlow recently discussed the 102nd project changes. I have reviewed the crash data and the Northeast 102nd Avenue project identified on the PBOT Vision Zero website. Your concerns are well founded, particularly as they relate to serious injury crashes. These improvements are less effective at reducing or eliminating excessive speeding and alcohol related accidents, while most corridor crashes Turning, angle, side swipe, rear end occur during congested periods and have less severity. Most speeding and alcohol crashes do not occur during these periods. The two elements of truly improving corridor safety are missing. Increased enforcement and increased societal accountability. Solution B. Stop Vision Zero projects until an independent expert can analyze each project in relation to eliminating fatalities and serious injuries and make appropriate changes. People can accept frustration and anger due to an increase in congestion, travel time, minor accidents, as long as there's a very positive result. Eliminating fatalities and serious injuries. When these goals aren't even remotely realized, Commissioner Udalli's quote applies. We have a lot of frustration born out of heavy congestion. We have a lack of enforcement which makes people think they can take more risks on the road. Because Vision Zero's projects involve 30 major arterials, it will touch everyone. As the 62% disapproval score and numerous media reports show, the public isn't happy. We're sending a summary of this presentation to these groups to educate their people and request the city council to hire an independent expert to analyze each of these projects. And... hopefully the public will want to become involved in making sure that their streets are safe. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks all three of you. Any questions? Commissioner Fritz and then Commissioner Hardesty. Uh, sure. Okay. Um, thank you for coming. We, again, we're not going to have a conversation here. We need to move along. Um, Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate you bringing your concerns. There are clearly some ongoing misunderstandings about Vision Zero and your group. And we just missed 100 seconds. Please. Thank you. So. It's frustrating to have my quotes somewhat misunderstood or misrepresented. I have never suggested that. the solution to our traffic fatalities is simply lies in enforcement. And some of the statistics behind those deaths support that. 30% of the 49 people who were killed on our streets last year died on ODOT properties. Those roads constitute 10% of the roads in our system. Those roads are not up to current safety standards. And so that's just one of many examples of how necessary safety improvements are. It is just an undeniable fact that we need to make our roads safer for all users, drivers, pedestrians, and cyclists. And none of the changes that we are making through Vision Zero, I mean all of the changes are necessary safety improvements, but they alone cannot change behavior. and they cannot make up for under enforcement. The reality of 102nd Avenue, which while we won't have a report on the, a full report on the data until this winter because we need time to collect data, meaningful data, But preliminary analysis shows a decrease in speed and speeding on 102nd Avenue and almost no impact to bus or vehicle travel time or to vehicle volumes on neighboring streets. I'll leave it at that. No, no, I'm sorry. There's not a conversation happening right now. You said I should meet with you or contact someone you're- Well- Who should I contact? We actually have over 40 emails sent and received from you already. So I think you know who to contact, but it would be Jamie DeHamel in my office or whoever you've been dealing with at PBOT. I just wanted to give you the context having been on the council when we adopted Division Zero in 2015. There's three tenets to Vision Zero. Education, enforcement, and engineering. And all three of them are necessary. So that was the discussion of the council work session yesterday about increased enforcement. We also need to do the engineering changes. There's a street in my neighborhood that has recently gone from four lanes with parking on both sides to one with a center turn lane. I am astonished at how much people are slowing down. And that brings me to a... Another observation that driving behaviour, Mr. Walsh, it's really distracting to have you hold up a sign like that. Would you please not? Okay. Driving behavior in different parts of the city is very different. People on Martin Luther King, Julia Boulevard stop for pedestrians who are waiting to cross the streets. They turn to my neighborhood. The traffic changes that Vision Zero has done in my neighborhood have made people slow down. It's obvious that people are not doing that in your neighborhood, and that's something that we can all do something about. So as I mentioned, getting trained to do that volunteer radar training, detection might have a good outcome in your area. Thank you for coming. Thank you. Last individual, please, Carla, for communications. Number five, request of Chandra Evans to address council regarding bringing participatory budgeting to Portland. Shonda. Shonda, thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm sorry, Commissioner. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Shonda Evans. Thank you for your time this morning. I'd like to share with you my personal experience involvement with participatory budgeting. I'll shorten it to PB and Councilman Brad Landers District 39 in New York City. While it is impossible to compare Portland to New York City which fully supports PB, I can share with you my unique perspective as a former resident who actively engaged and participated in PB and the benefits of bringing Portland PB to Portland. PB can take many forms. It is unique to the residents that shape their communities who are engaged, committed, and support a constituent driven democracy. As a volunteer delegate on the education committee, I work with a small team of my fellow neighbors led by two experienced facilitators. We had an online presence and conducted outreach in our neighborhood. Some overlapped, some were rejected. The ideas generated by people varied as they were similar. One year, the PV demand for air conditioning in New York public schools was so great, Mayor de Blasio said, no more AC on the PC ballot. Too hot to learn was the city's pledge to ensure all schools had AC by 2022. Grassroots democracy brought change through PV to the entire public school system in New York City. PV can also reveal what cities fail to fully fund and highlight basic community needs. PDB is more than using discretionary money set aside to wherever the committee's research and designate as ballot worthy. It is about building an inclusive and more equitable community. It is about bringing people together. It is about listening and going to the people to look. their ideas and encourage their voice to be heard. The PD process that was filed in New York City had a functional user friendly formula. Money was allocated to participating districts by this city and the council person set aside a specific amount. The projects were placed on the ballot. Residents as young as 11 voted. In my district, Councilman Lamner set aside $1.5 million with additional money for expense projects. Originally, I became interested in PB because I had an idea for an educational project. I did the research, created my model, and looked to allies for support. While the project involved three specific schools, it eventually resulted in a collaborative project between another committee and ours. Ultimately, it did not make the ballot. A new initiative was underway in 2017 by the New York Department of Education and School District 15 to create a more inclusive and diverse middle school admissions process. We realized this project would be best after the adversity initiative took root. Sometimes ideas evolve or retool, place on the ballot again, only to be funded in a different PB cycle. I notice my time is up, so I will close. You still have more time. I do? It's just your one minute notice. Brilliant. 30 seconds. PD is by no means perfect, and the process may appear daunting. Portland has a unique opportunity to research and learn where the PB process is successful and thriving. What PB Oregon needs is a commitment from leadership in Portland so PB can be launched. We can have democracy at the street level. This is an amazing opportunity to harness the youth into civic participation. It's our future leaders we're looking at here. So thank you very much for your time this morning. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you very much for that presentation. You talked about projects going to the ballot, election ballot, or is there a community- Community ballot. And so it's a different process than the electoral process? Yes. Okay, that was one question that I had. The second, oh, and let me just be clear, we have no discretionary money this year. So we've looked at participatory budgeting over the last couple of years, I know. Me personally, I'm very interested in the process because I think it is a good community process. But when you have no discretionary dollars and you are – reliant on the general fund, which is not going to have any new resources. We have to be creative about how we start a process without money to attract money. It can be done. It can be done. It can be done. Thank you. I'm sure you do. Well, thanks for coming today. I'm friendly with Councilman Landers through Local Progress. Brilliant politician. Yeah. Or Lander. And my office is also really interested in public policy budgeting, I think the biggest hurdle for us was just what a huge undertaking it was. And as Commissioner Hardesty mentioned, we didn't have enough. We could have spent all the money we had available just on the process, but then we would have no money to allocate. And also, we could use more expertise. So if you'd like to talk to Jamie, my policy director, it would, I think, help. It's worth having a conversation and see if we can come up with something. We've done kind of what I'd consider like public budgeting light, like more of a community budgeting, but not this kind of formal process you're talking about. That would be brilliant. I'm really intrigued. My time spent was... An amazing, I mean, I was fortunate enough, Mayor de Blasio would peep in now and then on what we were doing. So it was a really engaged process, and it's been rooted in my district, for my district, for a very long time. So they're valuable resources as well, not just me alone. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thanks a lot. Appreciate your being here. Carla, have any items been pulled off consent? We've had no requests. Call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Next item, first time certain, item number six. Proclaim the second week of January 2020 to be Slavic and Eastern European Heritage Week. Colleagues, I'm pleased to bring forth this proclamation on behalf of Commissioner Nick Fish. I'd like to begin by thanking Irene Konev for helping to organize our annual Slavic and Eastern European Heritage Week. Irene is the co-founder of the city's Slavic Empowerment Team. I'm pleased to introduce our invited testimony today, Alan Ellis, who's the president of the Portland-Kabarovsk Sister City Association, Maria Klimenko, who's from representing the Erko Slavic Advisory Board, and Yves Winnacki, a student in the Russian flagship program at Portland State University. Maria, thanks for being here, and you can go ahead and take it away. Thank you very much for having me. My name is Maria Klymenko. I'm, as you mentioned, part of the Erkoslavic Advisory Board. And I also have a student who goes to the Russian Immersion Program at Kelly. I'm honored to be here for the proclamation of Slavic and Eastern European Heritage Week and I wanted to share a bit about my personal story as to why this is meaningful to me. I came here when I was 10 years old as a refugee from Ukraine with a single mother who basically had to start from zero working two jobs. to support us with all the language barriers and the struggle of what it means to be in a new home. I felt like an outsider at school without having a parent who was equipped to help and support me. There was a lot of pressure to assimilate, and there wasn't a lot of vocabulary to express the loss that I felt and that my mother felt of what it means to lose our homeland. And I think that the story of the Slavic community is really one of an invisible minority because we look the way we look. We've traditionally been grouped with white or Caucasian without really being able to understand all the implications and disparities of what it means to be part of the Slavic community. And just to clarify, Slavic is more than just... From Russia, Ukraine, it's a very multi-ethnic, multi-racial, multicultural community that includes a lot of the former Soviet republics. I think there's been certainly a shift since I was young from the pressure to assimilate to really being able to celebrate and preserve our heritage for us and for our children. With that, I think that this proclamation is a very important first step in acknowledging our experience, in hoping to give our community a voice. And I hope that it will be part of the City of Portland's ongoing and continued acknowledgement, recognition, and support for our community and its needs. Russian speakers, in fact, are the biggest refugee group in Oregon, and it's the third most spoken language here. But we don't have enough data to separate us as a community to really understand the impacts of the disparities. So, again, I'm very excited about this as an important first step. And lastly, I wanted to invite you all to our Slavic conference. celebration and festivity hosted at ERCO tomorrow night from 6 to 8. So I hope as part of that support, we will have presence from the city of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. My name is Alan Ellis. I'm president of the Portland-Hoboto Sister City Association. And I also taught Russian in Portland public schools for over 30 years. Maria was in our Russian club at Lincoln High School. As an active volunteer with Sister Cities and neighborhood associations, I know that I speak for thousands of Portlanders in expressing profound sadness and loss of a champion of diversity and equity in Commissioner Nick Fish. On a personal note, Nick was as kind as he was personable. Be it at City Hall or around town, he would always take the time to come up to me and say hi and encourage my work. my work as a community volunteer. An avid jazz enthusiast, he delighted in attending our Sister City Association's Jazz Bridge Exchange concert a few years back, featuring visiting Russian musicians from Khabarovsk and an all-star Portland ensemble led by PSU professor of jazz Darrell Grant and jazz blues singer Marilyn Keller. Commissioner Fish, as you pointed out, Mr. Mayor, was instrumental in helping to get the ball rolling on establishing the first week of January in Portland as Slavic and Eastern European Heritage Week. He and his staff, especially Senator Lawrence sitting behind us, worked closely with Heritage Week organizer Irene Konef, also sitting behind me. whose work in the auditor's office involves outreach to Portland's Slavic-speaking community, which includes tens of thousands of Russian speakers in the metropolitan area. Last May, Irene joined me and two other sister city colleagues in traveling to Khabarovsk to present newly elected mayor Sergei Kravchuk with a copy of the Heritage Week proclamation at a high-level meeting attended by the city's top officials and covered by reporters from local media. The next day, the headlines were all about Portland's Russian heritage connection and the 31 years of Khabarovsk-Portland sister city partnership, a breath of fresh air for American-Russian relations. I should add that Irene Konev was raised in the Russian old believer community of several thousand who live and worship in the Woodburn-Jervis area, and her fluency in Russian made all the difference in effectively communicating the proclamation message to Russian officials, the media, and the general public. As Maria pointed out, in Oregon, Russian is only second to Spanish as a household heritage language. And I commend the Council for its ongoing recognition and support for this expansive and dynamic community. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Good morning. It's an honor to be here today in celebration of the Slavic and Eastern European Heritage Week. My name is Ives Winicky. I'm a fourth-year undergraduate student at Portland State University. and I'm pursuing a double major in computer science and Russian language and I'm also part of the Urban Honors College at PSU and the Russian Flagship Program. So, a little bit busy. That's great. I come from a traveling household. So, my father was from the Air Force and he's retired, now working with NASA. And my mother is an immigrant from the Philippines. So, I can relate to the struggles of being a second generation immigrant trying to find your identity in America. My family has moved to many cities and to many countries from Australia to Japan, and then we moved to California and Hawaii, and then finally my father retired in New Mexico. And through all these travels, my only view into the Slavic and Eastern European culture was through action movies, video games, the internet, and news headlines. So, I knew that this wasn't really an accurate portrayal of what the culture was actually like. I wanted to know more about the truth, not just the mysterious portrayal and the stereotypes that we so often see in the media. And so this is actually why I decided to move to Oregon and why I decided to pursue higher education in Portland State University. PSU is actually one of only six universities nationwide to have a Russian flagship program. And that's really special. It's thanks to the work and dedication of Sandra Friels and our amazing faculty and staff that students like me have this amazing opportunity to experience and learn more about the Slavic community and to prepare for international careers. For the past about three and a half years, I've not only had the chance to study Russian language and culture, but also to be a part of the Russian-speaking community, both locally and abroad. From the cuisine to the music and performances and my friendships, I've been really overwhelmed during my time here in Portland by the warmth and the hospitality of the Slavic community. There are many cultures and the long-standing traditions carried from generation to generation has really enriched my worldview and it's changed the way that I live my own life for the better. I've made countless friendships with Slavic coworkers and classmates, peers, and it's given me a deep appreciation and empathy not only for different cultures in the Slavic community, but for my own Filipino heritage. Many Americans are really interested actually in learning about Slavic and Eastern European cultures. But unfortunately, they don't have the resources or the community to properly explore this curiosity and learn more about the truth. That's why I believe that our Slavic community here in Portland is really so special and so important. I look forward to furthering my relationship with this community and continuing my studies with the Russian Flagship Program. And I'm proud to share my positive experience with you all, with my relatives and my colleagues. And it's my pleasure to celebrate the Slavic and Eastern European heritage with you this week. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for your testimony. We really appreciate it. Thank you for being here today. And I also want to encourage everybody to visit the atrium today between 10 and 1230 to continue the Heritage Week celebrations. So thank you for being that. Colleagues, do you have any remarks before I read the proclamation? Very good. We'll read the proclamation and then if people could join us up front for a photo, we'd appreciate that as well. So now I will read the proclamation. Whereas Slavic and Eastern European Americans are one of Portland's largest immigrant and refugee communities, with over 150,000 people in the greater Portland area. And whereas Slavic and Eastern European Portlanders can trace their ancestry to 15 countries in the former Soviet Union and 14 other European countries, with unique languages, dialects, cultures and histories. And whereas the City of Portland has many Slavic and Eastern European employees and a Slavic Empowerment Team that works to build a more inclusive and diverse workforce. And whereas the Slavic Empowerment Team shares culture, language and art with City employees through celebrations, displays, performances. And whereas Portland is a welcoming and inclusive sanctuary city that celebrates its growing diversity. And whereas the City of Portland is proud of its relationship with all members of the Slavic and Eastern European community and will continue supporting their professional and economic advancement, Now therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim the second week of January 2020 to be Slavic and Eastern European Heritage Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. Now, when you do that next year, could you please have somebody read it in Russian? Because I think the Russian language, I don't understand a word of it, but it's such a beautiful language to listen to. It's a great idea, Commissioner. Thank you. Back here, guys. Back here? Ellen, can I get you to hold this? Can I excuse you? I'll move here. Come on. I want you to move here. Okay. Thanks for your time. Thank you all very much. Appreciate it. Good to see you. Bless you. Thank you. Bless you. Thanks again. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Carla, could you please read item number seven on the time certain? Accept Sport Oregon's, formerly Oregon Sports Authority, annual report on national and international sports marketing activities and event recruiting services. Colleagues, please welcome Jim Etzel, the CEO of the Oregon Sports Authority, formerly known as the Oregon Sports Authority. I totally got that wrong. Let's try that again. Please welcome Jim Edsel, CEO of Sport Oregon, formerly known as the Oregon Sports Authority, to present their annual report to the City Council. This report is a requirement of the City's contract with Sports Oregon to provide sports marketing and event recruiting services. Sport Oregon works tirelessly to attract signature national and international sporting events to our city, providing exciting entertainment options, raising the city's profile, and supporting our local economy. The events they help bring to Portland also generate city revenues through increasing the number of hotel rooms booked by major event attendees and generating user fees for events at the Rose Quarter and Providence Park. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners, for the opportunity to give the report. As stated, I'm Jim Metzl, the CEO of Sport Oregon. My sincere condolences for the loss of our friend and colleague, Nick Fish. I thank you. Nick recognized what sports does for our community and unifying and pulling it together, whether it's at the grassroots, the collegiate or professional high school levels, He really saw the value in that. We so appreciated that. He also was very willing to give constructive criticisms and ideas and thoughts, and we took those to heart over the 26 years of our organization, 11 years that he sat on this council, and we value all that. So our condolences to you, your staff, his staff, and family. Thank you. Yes. Sport Oregon is two entities. One, a non-profit 501c6 corporation that we do most of our economic and development work in. And also 501c3, and that is our foundation where we focus on working with businesses giving opportunities to underserved youth communities in the city of Portland and across the state to get them physically active and involved in sports. We're supported by 140 corporations and individuals, as well as the city of Portland, Travel Oregon, Travel Portland. We are self-funded by those members. And that provides our operating budget. Over 26 years, we've had $400 million of economic impact measurable in the state and in the city. And that we're very proud of. As you mentioned, we went through a rebrand this year. and moved away from Oregon Sports Authority as we were not a government entity and something that's more reflective and action-oriented of what we actually are. Sport Oregon has been very well received both locally and nationally, and we're excited about that. That work was done by one of our members, Wyden Kennedy, pro bono. So that was gratifying. We're also going to be moving into new offices at 1939 Southwest Morrison on the street level of a low-income, the Morrison Building housing project. as part of the civic development. The space has been vacant nine of the 12 years the building has been open. We think we're gonna be a great new addition to the neighborhood and the street scene across from Providence Park and be part of the revitalization of the West End. So we're excited. We hope to be moving into those offices by April. It also gives us an opportunity to give space for community events, for other nonprofits to host meetings and fundraisers. So it's part of our mission, and that mission is to drive economic and quality of life benefit in our communities through sports. So with no further ado, I'd like to jump into how we deliver value this past year to the city. The reporting period that we report on in this meeting is from July 1, 2018 through June 30th. 2019. First I'd like to touch on the events, some of the high-level events, not all the events because we'd be here quite some time. This past spring we hosted the NCAA women's basketball West Regional in March at the Moda Center. This was the most successful women's basketball Western regional in history, the NCAA. We're proud to be hosting it again this spring. Over 23,000 spectators attended. It was nationally televised on ESPN. Predominantly a local... impact of visitors. The visitors are predominantly from the four schools, but the local citizens, we drive about 1.1 million of economic impact on that event. And obviously, We have local schools in University of Oregon, Oregon State, and Portland State University that all qualified for the NC2A, kind of reinforcing our position nationally as the mecca of women's sports success. Can I ask you a question on that? If you could go back, how do you calculate economic impact? Not at the granular level, but what are you including in economic impact? Well, we... look at the spending, both direct and indirect spending of the visitors, the teams, the NC2As, the media? How do you do that? Do you do a random survey of hotels and restaurants? How do you determine that 23,000 spectators spent something in the neighborhood? Working with our partners at Travel Portland, there's booking portals that we run all the bookings through, and so we're able to measure those. So we know what the room impacts were. We also know what the user fees that we generate through ticket sales and then So those things are the multipliers that we use. So this is direct economic impact then? Direct, yes. So you take into account the secondary impacts or exposure in the SPM? Yes. Okay. We want to be very conservative with our estimates from a credibility standpoint. A lot of sporting events kind of blow the numbers up. We think it's really important to be real so we can really be credible, especially as a nonprofit organization. You know, we have part of our duty is to serve those that fund us and to be accurate with what our estimates are. I appreciate that approach. Thank you. Absolutely. Little League Softball World Series was at Alpenrose Dairy. Ten teams, one of which is from Oregon, which is very unique as being the host community. Oregon always gets a position in the tournament. around the world. ESPN television this past year and also in this event in 2018 there was 27 games televised internationally on various ESPN platforms. Economic impact measured by this event was $650,000. I would like to make a note as we all are aware of the The situation out at Alpenrose with the family and the disputes there. And unfortunately, the World Series right now is in limbo, whether it's going to be here in 2020. We are very actively working with Little League Softball World Series in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. Also, our friends in the community here at Adidas, who are the official supplier for Little League. And we are trying to salvage this event for 2020 and beyond in Portland or the surrounding metro area. Given that the family dispute is likely to not be resolved quickly, is there any way to at least get forbearance for the next... in 2020? That's what we're working on because Little League very much likes being in Portland, Oregon, as does ESPN. We think it's really, it's great for our community from an exposure standpoint, but it's really great for the young girls that get to participate from a team from our local community every year. It's a once-in-a-lifetime experience. Are you in negotiations or discussions with the family about potentially having the event and being able to make the commitment for the event this summer? We're actually working directly with Little League and Adidas, and they are, they have a great relationship with the Cadena family. Okay. Uh, and so their initial announcement was the initial announcement decision was to not hold it out at Alpenrose in deference to the Cadenas, but, um, I think the sentiment is shifting, so we're working on it. I want to be respectful of their situation. I don't want to make light of it. I understand it's complicated, but I'm wondering if just given that those conversations amongst the family members are continuing, if there isn't some opportunity... for us to at least have the event there this summer while they continue those important conversations amongst themselves. Yes, that's what we're trying to do. Okay, thank you. Is there a possibility of using Walker Stadium at Lance Park as a backup? There'd have to be significant dollars spent at Walker because it's set up for baseball and Little League softball is on a 60-foot diamond versus a 90-foot. It's not workable, but there are other facilities that we could possibly build temporary structures around. within the community. Our ideal position would be at Alpenrose again because the facility would be functional. When do you need to have that locked down? We thought we might have some answers right before Christmas. Little League postponed it. So hopefully by the end of this month. Okay. Yes. Thank you. Commissioner Hershey. Thank you. The Grand Prix of Portland. The venue, Portland International Raceway, a city facility, 90,000 spectators, NBC Sports, plus over 200 countries internationally. from Portland. This one is of major significance economic impact wise. Its return one year ago after a 12 year absence was significant. It comes on an ideal weekend from the hospitality industry standpoint, Labor Day weekend, where it's about the only weekend during the summer where we're low on room nights. We had 7,500 minimum room night increase over Labor Day weekend over the years prior. and eight to ten million dollars dropping in the local economy. There's 12 owners in IndyCar, all of which are billionaires, and they come in and spend a lot of money locally, especially in the restaurant and hotels. This past year's event was the second highest rated open wheel racing event on television behind the Indy 500. A lot of that has to do about the date, Labor Day. It's a great date for our city, but it's also a great date for the television and exposure. What's been very interesting is... starting to work more with Travel Portland and Travel Oregon as they really see the value of this both domestically and internationally and how we can work with Green Savory Racing to to increase the impacts and solidify them in Portland. I know they're just about ready to sign a three-year extension to stay in the city, so we're very excited about that. We have made three trips to Indianapolis to meet with them. We were just with them each of the last two days and also kind of trying to reconnect and IndyCar with the Rose Festival Association. So things are going well. Is there more that we can do to be helpful? Right now, I think the city has been seen as a really willing partner. And I think at this time, there's no glaring thing that jumps out. I think... What we want to do is continue to look at the investments. I know the race promoter invested significantly at PIR, but I think the paving that went on in some of the parking lot areas and so forth last year as part of normal maintenance went a long way. So we'll continue to keep those things on our radar. All right. And we'll let you know. There's more that we can do or more that I can do. Thank you. Absolutely. Appreciate it. Event bids that we submitted in that period were, We are in the process of bidding for the women's basketball final four in either 25 or 26. We were just in Indianapolis making a presentation in December. We'll be seeing the NCAA again this Monday in New Orleans and meeting with the committee on this. We will know at the end of January if we are a finalist city. And then over the course of the spring and summer, they will be visiting our city and evaluating the opportunity here. I will go back to Indianapolis if we're selected as a finalist in September and make our final presentation. Our partners in this are the Portland Trailblazers, Travel Portland, and Oregon State University. How we demonstrated what success looks like last year and what we're going to demonstrate again in March with the Western Regional again has gone a long way. They really recognize that this is the perfect city to host this event. The impacts are far more significant with a Final Four than they are with a Regional Final in that we literally would fill up virtually every hotel room in the city. The final four, the travel parties are significantly larger from the four finalist schools. There's 750 media that cover it. There's 500 ESPN personnel that come in for the broadcast compound. It's a very significant event. Most importantly, there's a 3,000-person coaches convention that is in town for five days during this event. So we... would have a significant number of visitors. We would rent every square inch of the Oregon Convention Center, fill up every room in the core hotels in downtown. And I think from diversity, equity, inclusion standpoint. We're a very attractive market for this event to the NCAA and to the basketball community in general. And it has not been on the West Coast since 1998. It's time to come West and we hope we're the one. So we'll keep you posted. I know the media has been covering us on that. We also... What was that? We should just pause for a shout out to the Convention Center Hotel. Yes. Which is really making it possible for us to bid on something like that. Not just this, but a handful of other things that are on our radar for the future that we never could go after before. And also just the fact that that hotel opening might also create several other hotels in that area that will further enable us to be a more significant player nationally. So very excited. It's a game changer in a lot of ways, not just in our industry. Yeah. The we're also in a bid cycle for more regionals, both for women and men at the Motor Center. So we're we've been in a bid process now. Final submissions are in February for that for the cycle 2023 through 2026. Also working with Travel Portland, Blazers, and Oregon State on that bid cycle. Separately, another bid cycle for the women's volleyball Final Four, very similar to the women's basketball Final Four. Ideal market. It fills the arena. 4,000 person coaches convention plus a 1,200 person youth national tournament that would be here that week. That would be in December which is a sorely needed economic boost in the hospitality industry. That's where we have our biggest capacity. I'm not going to say that I'm tremendously confident that we can win the volleyball in this cycle because we've never bid for it before, but we need to put a stake in the ground that we want it. So it starts now and hopefully it sets, if we don't get it, we can establish this as a legitimate site for the future. We're also in negotiations because of the success you may recall, the US figure skating synchronized championships that were here where we rented Veterans Memorial Coliseum for five days and had 3,000 competitors all from out of state come into that in February of 2019 or excuse me 2018 These usually bid out for years. It was stated by U.S. Figure Skating it was the most successful event they had ever hosted. In that category for synchronized skating, they have upticked us and want to come back because of that success. So right now we're working to see if we can make that happen. Triple Count Softball U.S. Nationals. This was a quick bid cycle. It came up last year. We worked very closely with the Parks Bureau on this. And 3,000 room nights. We don't have an estimated economic impact. It's to be determined, but 3,400 room nights, multiple fields, Delta Park. If it's successful, there could be a long-term commitment to this, which they also would commit some dollars to parks for lighting enhancements to Delta Park. It would be contributed by the van operator, which would be interesting. Future events, and there's some overlap because of some of these bids fell in the same cycle. As I mentioned earlier, I won't spend much time on this, but we're hosting again Western Regionals this March at Moda and expect to leverage the success and have even greater. To give you an interesting point here, last year at this time we had sold 1,800 pre-sold tickets for the event last year. At this time this year for the same event we sold 6,000 already. So people are excited. Roadrunners Club of America Convention, building on our running heritage as a state and a city, is coming this spring, filling up the Hilton Hotel, 400 attendees. Also the National Veterans Wheelchair Games. We worked really hard with the Veterans Administration to win this bid. And with Travel Portland, there will be 700 competitors traveling from around the country here. It will be at the Oregon Convention Center this summer. We think this is going to be a very exciting event. Triple Crown, as we mentioned, there was a quick bid cycle. That's why it's listed twice. So that event actually happens this summer. Grand Prix of Portland is back and expect to grow. Ticket sales are ahead of previous years. And as I said, we're meeting regularly with them. We see this as being a critical event to have success here. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you, Mayor. My question is just, is this estimated economic impact annually or is this combined? Annually. Thank you. Thank you. Also been working very diligently for the last 12 months with a lot of city bureaus to partake in Oregon 21, which is the World Athletics Track and Field Championships that are going to be held in Eugene. First time the event's ever been held in the United States. It is the largest sporting event in the world in 2021. Televised in over 300 countries, NBC here locally or domestically. And we've all seen the publicity and news reports about the state's support in obtaining the Savannah being the new Hayward Field in Eugene. But we really want to have Portland as the gateway for all of the competitors, visitors, spectators that will come. This is truly a global event. It's the largest global sporting event that this state has ever hosted. Portland will have a lot of spillover benefit from this, but we're trying to create direct benefit by hosting the World Championship event. Marathons, both the women's marathon on one weekend and the men's marathon on the other. And then also working for some local citizen components, both the global citizen and local citizen components on this. The World Athletics is going to be in town this Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday to review our course with us, along with PBOT and Portland Police, who have been working very diligently with us, along with the mayor's office and the other bureaus, parks included. Thank you. This is significant in that it really showcases Portland on international television. The ratings for a marathon, which is kind of hard for us to fathom, but in Asia and Japan are equal to what Super Bowl ratings are in the United States. And that's of significant interest to travel Portland and travel Oregon. Those are key markets for us from a visitor standpoint and from a business trade standpoint. So we'll have more to report on in the next 45 days on how that all ends up. We also are working on the, we landed the 2022 NERSA National Intermittent Recreational Sports Convention. 3,000 out-of-state visitors coming in for that in 2022. Part of our mission is to work on franchise pursuits, not just in Portland but across the state and facility development. There's a couple areas, obviously the Portland Diamond Project, very involved with them. Work with them on a weekly basis in furthering their pursuit. And I think they've been doing a good job on taking care of what they can take care of. And it's really kind of up to baseball. whether they want to come here. So they built a compelling case to baseball of why Portland. Veterans Memorial Coliseum, we're currently, our staff is on the committees evaluating the project and so forth for the future of Veterans Memorial Coliseum. So we sit on that advisory committee and are active participants in that and contributors. Also the Lincoln High School Stadium, this has been put to bed, but we were kind of the linchpin in the city of Portland, Portland Public Schools, Portland State University and doing a pretty deep dive into the feasibility with the new Lincoln High School of creating a home for Portland State University football and women's soccer. It looks like the feasibility of building a 5,000 seat stadium just isn't in the cards for Portland State. It's about $55 to $65 million that they would have to cover the Delta and they wouldn't own the facility. So they're looking at other alternatives. But I think this is a very worthwhile process. If it would have happened, it would have been an incredible asset to the community in downtown Portland. Community impact. We just completed our fifth year of the program. Sport Oregon Track Town Youth League. We put on 16 all-comer meets around the state. We have two in Portland at Roosevelt and David Douglas High Schools. Competitors from these local meets all matriculate up to a state championship meet, which is held in Eugene at Hayward Field. We've had 7,500 participants in this in five years. This last year we had 2,200. This has really become a very popular deal. We chose track and field because of its accessibility. We actually... It's a low barrier entry sport and it's easy. All you need is a pair of shoes and to run. We actually scholarship shoes if kids don't have shoes to run. If kids qualify and their families don't have the means to get to the state championship, we actually pay for their mileage and so forth to do that. It's a tremendous program and been very well received. And now it's being replicated in other parts of the country. So we'll take that as a compliment. Street Soccer USA, this is a unique program that we helped establish in Portland three years ago. It provides accessibility to soccer for homeless youth or those in danger of homelessness. There is a potential we'd love to host a regional national homeless street soccer event in the future because of the success of this chapter. This was started in New York City. We saw it and brought it to the attention of the soccer community here and helped launch this nonprofit, get them going. It expanded programs in East Portland and then also in some Southwest Portland community centers this year. Play It Forward is a grant program we have with Nike and Providence. This past year we gave nine grants totaling 45,000 to these well deserving recipients. all of these, we don't believe in empowering the biggest. We want to help those that are on mission with what we do, so we only make grants to non-profits around programs that they're developing that have annual budgets as an entire non-profit of under $700,000 a year, so you won't see us giving grants to Boys and Girls Club or a place like that. Well-deserving, but they have great support groups. We try to kind of create lift for emerging groups that are filling gaps that aren't being served. You will see Special Olympics on there, and that is, we felt, with their trying to rise from the ashes. It's a very critical program we see in our state and one we felt we needed to support. Thank you. Any questions? Very good. Colleagues? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Just one. You have a five-year contract. What year are you in in that contract? I'm just starting my third year as CEO, but I believe, Carl, we're entering our third year. This current fiscal year is the fourth year. Yeah. Yes. Thank you. Very good. I'll entertain a motion. Move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz? It was very fitting that you gave this report on the day that we're honoring Commissioner Fish and amongst many days that will happen in the future. He certainly embraced sports being a really essential part of life. Hardesty? Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Full disclosure, it's not really conflict, but I think it's important to disclose I formerly sat on your board. But I'm obviously very appreciative and supportive of the work you do, and I appreciate the great success that you've achieved over the last year. And it looks like 2020 is going to be an incredible year. We have some big things we're excited for. We appreciate the work you're doing. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thanks. One last thing I'd like to add. We did make a grant to the Barbara Walker Crossing over Burnside. Our board was very inspired by that, so congratulations on getting that one across the line. It would be a great asset to the community. Thank you. We appreciate it. Next item, Carla, is the regular agenda item number 12. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro for a total amount of $841,931 for the annual waste reduction plan, recycle at work, and business food waste requirements. Colleagues, we often engage in partnerships with other local governments that allow us to reach common goals. This agenda item covers accepting funds from Metro to allow us to continue our progress towards meeting our climate action plan goals and the Metro regional waste plan goals. Metro has provided waste reduction program funding to the city each year since 1990. These funds support the Bureau of Planning, Sustainability, Staffing and Outreach efforts to increase participation in recycling, composting and waste prevention programs. Jill Kolick, Sustainability Program Manager from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, is here to provide us with some additional information about the partnership and the great work we've achieved together. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Good morning. Thank you for having me, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Jill Kolick, and I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. As Mayor Wheeler stated, the year 2020 marks 30 years of this financial partnership. between Metro and the City of Portland. Through this partnership, my team and I have collaborated with Metro to develop and implement a wide array of waste recycling composting programs for residents and businesses in Portland. The funds allocated through Metro's intergovernmental agreement are adjusted on an annual basis and based on population data, both residential and employee counts. For the 19-20 year, Metro is providing us with a little over $840,000. The majority of the Metro's funds go directly to paying for subject matter expert staff who develop and implement policies and programs at BPS. I'm pleased to share a high-level sampling of the varied and important work my team accomplishes through the support of these funds. This publication might look familiar. So a few ongoing program efforts include the Curbside Hotline team, the answer to thousands of calls, the Portlanders' most pressing recycling, composting, and garbage questions in real time, five days a week, We also, twice a year, mail out the Portland Curbsider to 185,000 households. BPS coordinates the Regional Master Recycler Program. The program recruits, trains, and provides volunteer opportunities to a pool of over 7,400 people. BPS relies on this knowledgeable volunteer pool to work in their communities promoting the city's message and goals around recycling, composting, greener cleaners, and sustainable consumption. Each year, they make tens of thousands of community contacts through a variety of activities, such as organizing litter and community collection cleanups, staffing information booths, writing articles, and presenting to faith-based organizations in their workplace. Another ongoing program deliverable is the Sustainability at Work program. The program helps hundreds of businesses green their workplace operations. A sustainability advisor offers on-site assessments, provides recommended best practices, educational resources, and connections to service providers, such as reuse organizations and food rescue agencies. In addition, the program offers recognition and has certified over 300 plus businesses, government, and non-profit workplaces. We've also recently rolled out a few waste prevention policies. Starting in October, Portland launched a single-use plastics reduction policy that restricts how food and beverage establishments can offer single-use plastics such as straws and utensils to their customers. It's essentially upon request. We also recently brought forward, actually in November, an updated ordinance that requires homes built before 1940 to no longer be demolished by bulldozers and landfill. They must instead be deconstructed piece by piece and the materials salvaged for reuse. The ordinance amends the original policy to advance the year-built threshold from 1916 to 1940, increasing the number of home demo permits captured under this policy from 33% to 66% of the total market. Next, I want to share a few forward-looking initiatives that are in process and will be coordinated and implemented regionally. We are collaborating with Metro and the surrounding jurisdictions on implementing a multi-family service improvement project. The project includes new regional standards for garbage and recycling service levels, bulky waste management, educational signage and container stickers, and container color coding. So the container colors will be similar to the residential program, green wool cano compost, blue recycling and gray and black for garbage. Ultimately, multifamily residents will experience a garbage and recycling collection setup that is consistent no matter where they live, whether it's Portland, Hillsborough, Beaverton. Also, we're in the process of receiving $100,000 grant from the recycling partnership to pass through to community groups to help with tenant education and engagement around this effort. Wasted food is a key area of focus for BPS in Metro. Food scraps make up about 18% of our waste stream. Half of that comes from businesses. Our highest priority in this area is preventing the wasting of food in the first place through supporting businesses and household practices around careful planning, purchasing, and preparation. However, some leftovers are inevitable, and this is where our team matches good quality surplus food to rescue agencies such as food banks, pantries, meal sites for donation. The business food scrap separation policy is aimed at capturing the food that cannot be prevented or donated. Thank you. Policy implementation is underway. All food businesses such as restaurants, grocery stores, institutional kitchens and schools will be required to keep food scrap out of the garbage. This policy will start with official notification this spring to the largest food businesses and will be phased in over a period of four years. In total, about 3,000 Portland businesses will be included. Portland will offer assistance and outreach to all businesses before compliance, monitoring, and enforcement begins. Very small businesses, such as individual food carts, will not be required to comply, but may do so if they choose. Is that something, who authorized that policy? I support it, but is that something that? It's been on the books since 2008, and we finally have the local processing capacity to handle it. So we're working regionally with, you know, Washington County, Clackamas County to start rolling it out over the next four years. Did the Metro Council pass that policy? It is part of their regional waste plan, but it's also in our Portland recycles plan from that time period as well. Thank you. Yeah. So with that, that wraps up what I'm going to share with you today. We do a lot of great work with these funds. When passed, this ordinance will authorize a 1920 intergovernmental agreement that supports the continuation of this work and many other initiatives outlined in Metro's 2030 Regional Waste Plan. I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you, colleagues. Any questions at this point? Excellent presentation. All right. Thank you. Carla, do we have anyone signed up for public testimony? Yes, one person. Maggie? Come on up. Good morning. Happy New Year. Thank you, you too. Even though it's not a happy new year for Valerie or Linda who died over the holidays and cannot be eulogized by you. Valerie died over by Providence Park where you're supposedly building that beautiful supportive housing. She was kicked out of TPI. Maggie. And then kicked out of the hospital while she was coughing up blood. And then she died. And you know, it's fine for you to eulogize. Maggie, this is a serious issue that you're describing, and I appreciate it. But this is also in violation of the council rules, which were clearly read at the beginning. And if you- I'm sorry, Maggie, I'm going to have to ask you to take your seat. In terms of recycling waste, they probably have the largest fines of any kind. business in Portland or anywhere, they throw away massive, they do massive single use, they throw away massive amounts of loyalties, of waste. In fact, they have fines. They get fined regularly by sanitation. And I don't see you saying to them, hey, we gotta cut down on your single use stuff. I don't see homeless people, they collect all the plastic bottles. I don't see, they eat food waste out of the garbage. They eat leftovers. I don't see you providing them with places to go to the bathroom, in fact, fish Maggie, can I make a suggestion? Can I make a friend? Just a sec. I'm not going to take your time, but can I make a friendly suggestion? Can I make a friendly? Listen, this is not about what we're discussing. We are going to actually. Can you listen for five seconds? Can you please listen for five? Please. Please. No, what I'm telling you is if you can wait for a few more minutes, we're going to have a presentation from the people who actually provide exactly the services you are saying we do not provide. Why don't you listen to the presentation? One more time. Go ahead. Continue. I have not. No. I'm telling you, you are not speaking to this particular ordinance. You're here to waste our time. The fact that you want to encourage businesses to recycle, isn't that what this is about? Well, the shelters are the worst offenders. They have the biggest fines from sanitation and waste because they throw everybody stuck. Thank you, Maggie. Please take your seat. If you do not take your seat, I'm gonna ask you to leave. We'll take a two minute recess. Maggie, stick around for a few minutes and just listen to the presentation. No, it's not impressive. It's a waste of everybody's time. It's disrespectful to people who are providing testimony. This is a first, I'm sorry, we're back in session. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, please. Item number 13. Authorize a matching grant fund not to exceed $460,596. And grant... agreements to assist in the cost to purchase and install safety equipment, specifically side guards on garbage and recycling collection vehicles. Colleagues, the City of Portland is committed to making our streets safer. The Portland City Council adopted Vision Zero. You heard a little bit about that this morning. It's a plan that calls for zero traffic deaths in Portland through a comprehensive approach outlining 32 different actions. Providing a safe environment for vulnerable road users defined as cyclists, walkers, and people using transportation assistance devices and scooters is a priority for the city of Portland. As we look to the future and expand participation in alternatives to single occupancy vehicle transport, we all need to be safe moving around the city, I think we all acknowledge that. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has worked in partnership with the Bureau of Transportation to identify and act on an aspect of large truck use in Portland that poses a life threatening risk to vulnerable road users. I'd like to applaud the Planning and Sustainability Commission for highlighting this issue and advocating for exploration of this safety equipment. I'd like to introduce Pete Chisholm-Winfield with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to give Council a short presentation on side guards and answer any questions that we may have. Good morning. Pete Chisholm- Good morning. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm Pete Chisholm-Winfield, the project manager for the side guards. BPS. I am joined here with my supervisor and the solid waste recycling manager with BPS, Bruce Walker. First off, before we begin, I'd like to thank you all for your heartfelt words this morning. That was very important and our condolences to you. Thank you. BPS is responsible for regulating the garbage recycling composting collection for residents and businesses. As a part of this role, BPS establishes rules that improve safety for workers and vulnerable road users. Side guards are installed to close the gap between the front and rear axles of a large truck to prevent harm to cyclists and pedestrians in the event of a side collision. And that gap is closed so that if it turns into a person walking or cycling, it would knock them over as opposed to them getting sucked into the middle of the vehicle, underneath the vehicle. This ordinance authorizes a matching grant to assist garbage recycling companies with installing side guards, and it's intended to do two things. One, to accelerate the installation by providing financial assistance, and two, reducing... the potential rate increases to customers. All of these companies together purchase anywhere between 30 and 40 trucks a year. We're proposing doing 385 trucks. So it's quite a glut of work that we think needs to be done right away. So as you can see on the slide here, there's a example of the side guards. Side guards are commonplace in European cities and gaining momentum in the United States, particularly in cities that are dense, becoming more dense, and are proactively encouraging their residents to cycle and get out of their vehicles to transport themselves. So you'll see in this the number of cities that are actively working toward this. And Boston and New York, I think, are much more advanced. Thank you. So based on this map, does this mean that we have implemented these guides? Yes, so based off of the map, this is acknowledging the work that the city of Portland has done to its own vehicles. Oh, this is just the city's property vehicles. Exactly. Got it. Okay. Yeah, so that would be separate from what this proposal would be, which would be putting them on the large trucks that service from the private companies. You're welcome. Thank you. So Portland City Council, as we've all heard earlier today, adopted Vision Zero. And a part of that was to identify this action with contracted services. BPS has actively collaborated with PBON staff. We compare notes. We've attended each other's meetings. We raise awareness with each other. We talk about the logistics of installing this and so I want to give a quick shout out to Shana Hobbs, Clay Vicka, and Dana Dickman with PBOT who have helped us with this project. BPS staff have also received guidance from staff at the Volpe Center, a safety research program with the US Department of Transportation and used their specifications, which are an attachment to to understand how to properly install the side guards so that they do what they're intended to do. And we did a pilot project that gave us information about costs, operations, and installation that that information was used into the proposal that you're seeing today. So as of January 2020, all new collection vehicles purchased by... Garbage and recycling companies will be required to have these installed. So as we move forward and we see new trucks servicing Portland customers, they will be required to have this piece of equipment. So all of the older trucks that we're trying to get up to speed and eliminate that risk. Can I ask you a question? Is that something that we are installing or do we have? A vendor who installs those, how is that actually being done? So the proposal is set up so that the private company selects a vendor, and there's a local company called General Equipment that does a lot of this work for garbage recycling companies. So it's likely that a lot of them will go to that company for this work. It's all federal safety standards. This isn't something that we're just doing makeshift. This is done to a particular spec or to a particular design or to a particular safety standard? Yes, and one of the exhibits is the actual Volpe specs that show the measurements that are required. And so as we would be providing... reimbursement, we would actually be sending inspector out to check to make sure with the tape measure that all the specifications are being met according to the Volpe Center. And I assume the answer to this question, but I just have to ask, I assume that we've also had the conversation with risk management and this does nothing to negate any insurance or liability issues? With regard to the private companies? With regard to, yeah, if you have a warranty on a roof and you alter that roof, it can actually negate the warranty on that roof. I just want to make sure there's not any ancillary risk exposure to the city of Portland. Do you understand the question? Maybe I'm not asking the question precisely. We've not contacted directly risk management, but this is the same vendor and the same project that, was used on all the city vehicles, the large trucks. So we believe we're acting in concert with the PBOT directive that's already installed the side guards on heavy city vehicles. Where did the Volpe, you described this as a Volte standard, did I get that right? Volpe standard? Volpe, yeah, they're in Cambridge. Where did that standard come from? Who established that standard? So they studied, what they did was look at all the specifications that were developed in the European policies. and they took all those specifications. They also do lots of crash scenarios. So they set up these scenarios where they would put a dummy bicycle going next to a truck and they would show it You can actually look it up on Google, but it shows that with the side guard, the cyclist gets pushed aside, which is one of the reasons why the 400 pounds per square inch is a part of that specification. So it's strong enough to push somebody aside. It looks right under. Do we have data that shows that in the field that is actually the way it works, or do we know? As far as the pounds per square inch aspect of the specification? No, I don't care so much. They look pretty strong. I'm not concerned about that. I just want to know that the product does what it's supposed to be doing. Do we have any – there's multiple cities around the country. Do we have any data that shows they actually work, that they do what they're supposed to be doing? Well, as far as information that we have, we have – The two companies that provided this service, one is a company in Seattle called Walker Blocker, and they've worked with Seattle and the University of Washington. There's another Italian company, called Tackler. So these companies have been doing this for other areas for a long time. And they also, in addition to us, work directly with the Volpe Center to figure out what their specifications are so that when they install it. I would like to suggest this because, you know, it appears to make sense. It seems like it's a good idea. But in the spirit of This being a long-term strategy for the City of Portland, if nobody else is collecting this information or data, I suggest that we do it. I would like us to track whether or not there are interactions with pedestrians or cyclists or people on walkers or people on scooters, and I'd like to have something other than anecdotal information about what the real impact of these are. Chair Harris. Commissioner Harsey, did you have a question? Sure. I did. I have heard from City of Boston staff that after they've installed side guards, they had one instance that they reported that the side guard literally resulted in pushing a cyclist to the side and saving their life. The whole goal is to keep them out from under the back tires. Exactly. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I also want to follow up on one of the questions the Mayor asked. I think it's really important to make sure that we're not shifting liability if there is an accident to the City of Portland because we have installed this equipment onto a truck. Because in a car, if you make any changes, your warranty is invalid as well, right? So it's just a conversation with legal counsel to just figure out to make sure that we're on good legal ground when we start implementing this. My next question was going to be, you're only going to be installing these on new trucks, right, that are old. Or are you installing them on all the trucks that recyclers will be using in our community? Just to be clear, the new trucks that these private companies will be purchasing will be responsible for putting the equipment on their truck prior to the service. This proposal is for all the old trucks to retrofit the equipment on the old trucks. And are we prioritizing trucks that have less emissions? Are we prioritizing trucks that we expect will be on the road longer? Yes. Right, because there's like a life cycle for these trucks and what we know now about emissions. I would think that we would want to be very thoughtful and not actually put equipment on trucks that we're hoping to convince folks to retire, right, so that they could get more energy efficient equipment that will be riding through our neighborhoods. That's a very good point. And we actually have put in the proposal there's a limit for trucks that are 2010 and greater and newer. Mm-hmm. because of the federal emission regulations on 2010 trucks. So that has been taken into consideration. We want to make sure and phase out those older, dirtier trucks. And give an encouragement, right, to be able to get those older trucks off the road because that would be the goal. And, Pete, just one more comment. Since we're not voting today, this is a first reading. If you could just check with risk management and legal counsel and maybe get back to me on the issues that I asked about. Commissioner Fritz? No problem. Bruce has got my information. I'm sorry, Bruce. No problem. I'd like to just amplify one more answer to Commissioner Hardesty. Pete has worked very hard to bring forward our clean fleet policy, which we have requirements that those older trucks are being retired. So I just want to amplify that, that this is what we're targeting are the less polluting the newer trucks and that's a requirement that we have unlike any other jurisdiction in the state of Oregon to It's what we call a clean fleet and now we're trying to make it a safer fleet And we paid more on our garbage fees in order to be able to do that. The city helped. The city was responsible for making sure that that was financially viable for all of the companies. And Mayor Wheeler, we work very closely with legal on bringing this forward, but we will do further connection on the risk management portion. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you. It's always better to ask ahead of time, right? Ask at the front end rather than the back end. Oh, yeah. Right. Thank you. So to continue the average cost, there's a glut of work that would need to be done for the retrofits for brand new trucks, though the cost is much less. It's about less than 0.05% increase cost of a new vehicle. So I'm just going to, oh, the other thing I wanted to make sure to say is that it's designed so that there's more of an incentive in the first year so that we can, again, accelerate and eliminate this risk. So 60% reimbursement in the first year and 40% in the second year. But companies that are registered as women and minority owned through the state's COVID program will be receiving in this proposal 100% reimbursement for the segments. And if you have any other questions, I'd be happy to answer those. We've had at least one fatality of this kind of crash, right? There has been one that I know of that was directly a result of an impact with a garbage truck, and there have been others that have been impacted with different types of trucks. But it has been identified. Again, the... As cities get denser and we try to get more people out of their cars, we anticipate that this risk would just increase over time. It seems to me, colleagues, that the liability risk is in not doing this, that we know that these trucks are dangerous. I agree. And if we don't do something, we are really in trouble. Yeah, I think on balance that's exactly right. I just want to make sure we have all our bases covered. Commissioner Fritz? No. RSTM, sorry. I know you are. I was just going to say I agree with Commissioner Fritz, but I also know that if we alter someone's vehicle and we don't know who's going to be liable if something happens to that vehicle, we could be in a whole world of hurt down the road. So I think it's important to have that info up front. Thank you. Thank you. Does that complete your presentation? Great. Thank you. We appreciate it very much. Carla, do we have anybody signed up for public testimony? Yes, we have three people. Chris Smith, Maggie, and Jillian Detweiler. Great. And I will just remind people that testimony is to be focused on the issue at hand, as per the council rules, which were read at the beginning of the hearing. And if people are not going to stick to the point, we will ask you to leave. Good morning. Good morning. Chris Smith. I'm Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission. However, today I'm speaking as an individual. And before I launch into this topic specifically, I just want to comment on Vision Zero in general, relevant to the earlier comments. The city of Oslo, Norway, in 2019 achieved zero traffic deaths, utilizing frameworks very similar to what we're pursuing in Portland. Now, obviously, they are much further down the road, particularly in engineering efforts. But the formula of reducing automobile speeds and in some places the presence of automobiles has been proven out in that context. So I just want to reinforce the efforts that we're making. A few years ago we reorganized oversight of the city utility bureaus and one of the side effects of that is that the PSC became the recommending body for recycling and solid waste rates. Not wanting to waste a regulatory opportunity, every time the rates were presented to us, I asked what we were doing about truck safety. And I want to thank very much Bruce and BPS Management, who rose to the challenge, and Pete, who has become the subject matter expert on truck safety. This has been a great step forward, and the answer is yes, there have definitely been deaths in Portland due to what we call hook accidents. A hook accident with a large vehicle is probably one of the things that cyclists fear the most. Tracy Sparling, Brett Jermalak are two names that came to mind. Those resulted in the We Are All Traffic protests. Commissioner Fritch, you may remember those having been I think in your election cycle at that time so the community definitely rose to the occasion. We've made engineering changes to support that and the bike box program was a direct result in some ways of that. Closing a right turn opportunity on Interstate Avenue was another result of those collisions. This is a vital program. I'd note from I encourage you to do your due diligence but the requirement for these retrofits has already been implemented in administrative rule. This grant simply accelerates the implementation and grateful to have it do that. And finally, I'd note this is really just a first step. If you look at where the Europeans are on truck safety, there are a number of measures. Side guards are one, mirror systems are another to make sure that the driver can see a cyclist or pedestrian who may be alongside the truck. And the design of the truck cab is another. If you look at European trucks, you'll see that the cabs look like big glass bubbles, so they have much greater visibility. And I would encourage us to keep pursuing all of those avenues. And finally, I'll say that I was in communication with Jess Thompson, who's the executive director of Oregon Walks. She sends her regrets that she can't be here, but she asked me to express her support for this measure. So I encourage you to adopt it. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Gillian Detweiler, the Executive Director of the Street Trust. And I'm also here today to ask you to approve this ordinance. Vehicle design is really important. This is an item that the City of Portland can take on through its regulatory authority. I'd really like to commend the inter-bureau and interdisciplinary approach that put Vision Zero and traffic safety together with our solid waste regulation. Love seeing that collaboration. You know, in our vision of the future, people use the vehicle that is right for the trip, and someday there will be no need for large vehicles in dense urban areas. We'll be able to, you know, access a bike, an e-bike, a scooter, walk safely. But until we get there, these measures... help save lives and so we appreciate this action. I did want to note, it's always interesting to come to the City Council. I was interested to hear the presentation from the folks along 102nd. Commissioner Udaly, I appreciated you trying to bring out some of the complexity around Vision Zero. And I was also very interested to learn about the Council's work session yesterday. And I will watch that because that's been a real... for our organization what's the right place to land there. So thank you. Great. Thank you, and I'd love to get your feedback on that once you've had a chance to review it. Appreciate it. Matt, he's already testifying. You go ahead. Well, I guess you're concerned about federal and state regulations when it comes to guards on... garbage trucks, but you're not concerned about federal and state regulations or human rights regulations when it comes to shelters. Which is why people end up sleeping on the street because of being kicked out. Maggie, you're off topic. I'm off topic. I'm talking about federal and state regulations and UN regulations. I think that's what you were talking about, Ted, about your concern that things fit into federal and state regulations while you turn a blind eye when it's the shelters. Why? Why the double standard? You're wasting a lot of people's time. You're wasting a lot of people's time. Please take your seat. Please take your seat. I'm asking you to take your seat. If you do not do so, you'll be asked to leave. Carla, we'll take a two-minute recess. Maggie, you need to leave. Maggie, you can't have civil disobedience without the whole fledge thing. You know, you have... No, you've been wasting everybody's time and you need to leave. You need to leave. Colleagues, we'll take a five-minute break. I need to get some more water. I need to go back in. I was not just respectful. I was on topic. . I would come on up. It seems no drinks were available.
 OK.
 OK. Maybe if you have some, you can go. OK. Thank you. You're welcome. We appreciate it. Sure. Have a good one. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry you don't go nobody comes back in here we're not saying you can't come back we're just saying there's no press there's no press that's what it is there is a press there's no press there's no press I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about the way I'm coming to America. We're going to get like a tax cut. And I'm going to be next to Vince. And bullshit. Thank you for coming. The throwing is out. I didn't do anything yet. I don't touch anything. I'm going to vote for you. I'm going to vote for you. I'm going to vote for you. It's not only to open your shop, it's how we meet and talk to people. Jesus! 32 million, $1,000,000. Okay, it's $1,000,000. Let's go. Okay, yeah, let's go. Okay, yeah, they're coming. Hey! Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, me too. Okay, I gotta go. Sorry. Okay, bye. All right, okay. Oh, water. Yeah. I am not going to do that. That would not work for me. Thank you, Maggie, for giving me the opportunity to catch up on a couple of things. All right, folks, so it is an age-old tradition in the United States to engage in acts of civil disobedience. People certainly have every right to engage in acts of civil disobedience. But the flip side of that is I have the right to enforce the council rules of order and decorum which are stated very clearly at the beginning of each council session. So I took the opportunity to enforce those rules and I know Maggie and I know she'll be back and we'll look forward to seeing her return on a different day. So we have completed public testimony. Carla, is that correct? Yes, that was all who signed up. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance and it moves to second reading. Next item is item number 14, please. amend Motor Vehicle Fuels Code to move authority to establish, revise as necessary, and enforce standards for biofuels sold in the city to the Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Colleagues, this is a second reading, so we've already heard a presentation and public testimony on this item. Is there any further discussion? Commissioner Hardesty? No. Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item number 15. Award a price agreement to Rapid Response Bio-Cleaning LLC for campsite cleanup services for $4,528,000 annually over a five-year period. And colleagues, people have been nice enough to inform me that there probably will be a civil disobedience during this presentation. I have a request. hear the presentation first because I will continue to enforce the rules and there's people in this chamber who I really would like to hear the full conversation and the full discussion. So with that, colleagues, I think everybody here understands that homelessness is a humanitarian problem. Mr. Walsh, you're out of order. If you do not stop, we'll ask you to leave. We'll take a five-minute recess. Can I reopen 14 so Commissioner Fritz can vote? Okay, do I need to call for a reconsideration or how do I do that? Do I need to call for a reconsideration in order for her to cast a vote on item 14 or can she just cast it? Okay. Thank you. Well, Robert will throw something at me if that's not right. All right, colleagues, we are back in session. Here we are again. Item 14, Commissioner Fritz had to step out for one moment. She'd like to cast her vote. So if we could suspend item 15 for just a moment while we give Commissioner Fritz the opportunity to cast her vote. Carla? Fritz. Aye. Thank you. Very good. And that ordinance has now passed with all four of us present. So, I was in my very early introductory remarks on item number 15. Homelessness in Portland, I'm sure we all agree, is a humanitarian crisis. I think we can also agree that camp cleanups are difficult but necessary work to sustain and improve the safety and livability of our city. We've learned that we need our vendors not just to focus on the security or enforcement, but to lead with compassion and interact with people in a manner consistent with trauma-informed principles. So in order to continue this important work in our community, we need to update our service contracts. This is an opportunity to contractually obligate that our vendors share our values and interact with people living on our streets with compassion, professionalism, and courtesy. Over the past several years, we learned that proper training is essential to the work of clamp cleanups. With these changes, we're requiring that our contractors are trained in nonviolent de-escalation tactics, assertive engagement with neurodiverse individuals, CPR, and proper use of Narcan to treat individuals who've overdosed on opioids. We've also learned that lived experience is a highly valuable skill that cannot be taught. The staff of rapid response can offer us these intangibles. 63% of their employees have experienced the criminal justice system firsthand. 59% have experienced homelessness firsthand. And 57% are in or have been in drug recovery programs. Further, these contract changes stipulate that our camp cleanup vendors assist our outreach providers during a severe weather event, thereby expanding our resources to reduce the impact of exposure. The goal is that by requiring proper training and qualified mental health associates and peer support specialists, there will be fewer negative interactions between our vendors and folks living outside. This price agreement reflects the increased service levels required per our intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation to clean throughout the city and do so in a values-driven manner. I believe that we can address the most problematic campsites, those that create a public health, an environmental, or a public safety threat either to the community at large or those within the camps themselves and do so in a thoughtful and humane manner. And that is the contract that we are bringing forth today. And so with that, I will turn it over to the team. I believe Teresa Green is up first. Good morning, and thank you for being here. Good morning. You can move the mic closer. Yeah, mics move around, and if you could all just when you speak, identify yourselves for the record, that would be helpful. Good morning. My name is Teresa Green. I'm the procurement supervisor of procurement services on the services team. I conducted the RFP for the campsite cleanups and I was also the buyer. I oversaw the... So I was working very closely with the project manager on the needs of the program based on the new requirements of our IGA with ODOT. I listened very intently to the concerns of council when Lucas first presented his ordinance. Thank you. That council presentation along with your comments were gleaned. For those actual concerns, each and every one of you provided very valuable input. Those were relayed over to the scope of work, which will also be relayed over to the actual contract that we hope to have executed today. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you for that. Could you Could you tell us what is different between the old contract and the new contract as far as the scope of work is concerned? Of course. I know that Lucas is going to speak a little more to this later on, but initially from a procurement standpoint, whenever something new comes into the contract, We do our best to try to incorporate it or the urgent needs into an existing scope of work that we have right now. But for this particular solicitation, we actually had to go back out because the scope changes were so large. We do have an agreement with ODOT and the requirements included things that included increased insurance requirements from the original contract and that's definitely something that will impact any proposers finances when they have to prepare for such an increase and the commercial general liability requirements in addition to Caring of the NARCAN, the requirement for the qualified mental health professional that we'd like to have go out and do some outreach in the field. There's also that training piece. We'd definitely like to see that qualified individual actually provide the training to actually all the members of the crews that are going to be working in the field. So it will be an ongoing service that will be provided there. There were just general enhancements all around to actually better serve the needs of the individuals whom we are impacting. I think that's been one of the misperceptions is that we're basically renewing the old contract that people had a lot of concerns about. And so the more we can talk about the difference between what we did before and what our vision is for the future, I think the better it's going to be for public understanding. So thank you for that. Great. Okay. Good morning. Scott Schneider from Procurement Services. I'll just give you a quick recap of the CPO's report, and then I'll turn it over to Lucas and Johnny. CPO. The Chief Procurement Officer's report, and then I'll turn it over to Lucas and Johnny for more information on the scope. You had before you this morning the Chief Procurement Officer's report to council, recommending the award of a price agreement for campsite cleanup services for not to exceed amount of $4,528,000 per year. On July 16th, 2019, the Chief Procurement Officer advertised RFP number 1288, and on August 12th, five proposals were received. All five proposals were deemed responsive to the requirements of the solicitation. Following a review by an evaluation committee, the city issued a notice of intent to award the price agreement to Rapid Response BioClean LLC. On September 17th, one protest was received and was resolved. Rapid Response BioCleaning has a current City of Portland business tax account and is in compliance with the city's contracting requirements. There are no subcontractors on this contract. Based on the historical spend for these services, the confidence level for this procurement is high. If council has any questions about the solicitation process, Teresa and I can answer those. And otherwise, we'll turn it over to Lucas and Johnny for more information on the scope. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Lucas Hillier, and I'm the manager of the City's Homelessness and Urban Camping Impact. Lucas, can you slide that just a little bit closer? Thank you. Oh, it's good. When I hear my voice. Okay. Yes. I want to thank you for the opportunity today to come talk about the very challenging work Huckabee does on behalf of the city of Portland. I was going to turn it over to Jonathan so he can present an overview of the work that we do. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Good morning. My name is Jonathan Lewis and I'm a program coordinator with the Homelessness and Urban Camping Impact Reduction Program, or HUCRP by our better known acronym. But we are the group responsible for administering the One Point of Contact campsite reporting system. Today, I'm going to provide an overview of One Point of Contact, and I will also showcase our report forms, discuss our assessment process, and also our posting criteria for campsite cleanups. As a program, we are committed to addressing the camps that pose the greatest risk to public health and safety. That's where we send our resources first and foremost. One Point of Contact is designed to identify, to better identify where those camps exist. And we do this through our partnership with the community. One point of contact is a system that provides one single place to report issues of camping or garbage. It's intended to simplify the process of reporting, and there are three ways that individuals can submit reports. And they can use our campsite report form, PDX reporter, or they can call city, county information and referral. And an information and referral specialist will take a report for them over the phone. Individuals need to only pick one. Huck Herp, our group, a team of three, we receive anywhere from 800 to 1,200 reports a week surrounding issues of homelessness. This is our campsite report form for folks that are not familiar. PDX Reporter is the other web form folks can access online. When reporting, the most important piece of information that we need is really a location. Please note it is not necessary to submit multiple reports in one day. Generally speaking, submitting a new report once or twice a week is appropriate and in fact helpful for us as we work with our partners to help address the issue. So what happens after you submit a campsite report? This very detailed flow chart can be found on our website for folks that are interested in reading the fine print. But typically, our first responder is a group called Clean Start. Clean Start is a homeless to work program through Central City Concern. They respond by going to the reported location and conducting an assessment on behalf of the city. If the report is just garbage and not an active camp, they will pick up the garbage, send us back a report and move on to the next location. If they find it is an active campsite, then they will engage with the individuals that are there. They will pick up camper-identified garbage. They'll pass out trash bags to assist folks in keeping their area clean. And then they'll take pictures of the site, and they'll send us back an assessment as to what they found. The assessment they send us is based off of criteria we have given them, which I will discuss in the next slide. And we use that to triage the many hundreds of requests for cleanup we get every week. This is a list of our primary posting criteria we use whenever making a determination to post a campsite. This list and our matrix has been vetted through several community work groups, including the Home for Everyone Safety Off the Streets. Assessment criteria includes, but is not limited to, conspicuous drug use, the amount of trash, ADA access restrictions, Environmental impact. Is it next to a school, a park, a private residence? Are there reports of violence or crime? If a site meets a certain threshold, then we will post it for cleanup. In the next few slides, I will showcase examples of sites that have been posted for cleanup. But before that, I want to explain what a post actually means. A post refers to the written notification that we are required to give folks who are camping in any given area before we can remove any personal property that may be there. Previously, our posting time frame was 24 hours to seven days. But with our new intergovernmental agreement with ODOT, the Oregon Department of Transportation, the new posting time frame throughout the city is now 48 hours to 10 days. Once the site gets posted for cleanup, outreach workers are notified so that they might have an opportunity to engage with folks that are present at the site before we come back to remove any personal property that may be left behind. I do want to be clear with folks that simply reporting a site does not mean the city will be going to immediately remove that camp. There is a process that we follow in order to protect all individuals involved. It is our intent to be as transparent as possible with everyone in the community, both housed and unhoused, so that folks know what we are doing and when. In January through June of 2019, 15% of all sites assessed by Clean Start were posted for cleanup. That means out of all the sites Clean Start went to assess, only 15% met our posting thresholds and were actually posted. Rapid response completes anywhere from 30 to 50 posted cleanups a week. During winter months, when severe weather is declared by the county, we do not remove personal property and we do not ask people to move. We want folks to get to a warming shelter and not to have to worry about their personal belongings. This site is an example of one posted location. This area was posted as it met several criteria including, but not limited to, the amount of trash, there were ADA accessibility issues, evidence of conspicuous drug use, in addition to some other factors. This site is an example of another location. This area again met several criteria including but not limited to some environmental concerns, burning of some hazardous materials. There was a large amount of trash, also evidence of conspicuous drug use and the camp was also rather large. Here is a third and final example of a posted site that also met our criteria including but not limited to The amount of trash that was present, there were environmental concerns and this area, this particular area is posted no trespassing. Can I show you some pictures of really nice camps? We're going to work. Please let him finish his presentation. My next slide actually does show areas of town where our posting criteria was not met. These are three different locations. Each picture is a different spot. So this again is an example where posting criteria is not met, but impact reduction services continue. By impact reduction services, I mean primarily through the use of Clean Start, we will continue to pick up trash, engage with the campers and offer resources. Personal property collected from cleanups is stored for up to 30 days in our storage facility. This is a picture from inside our storage warehouse. Our warehouse is in inner southeast Portland near the Orange Max Line. We do now have expanded hours of operations so folks can come to reclaim their property free of charge. So to recap quickly, folks can file a report using any one of the three methods identified and they can use our campsite report form, PDX reporter or city county information and referral. Clean Start gets dispatched to do an assessment, pick up garbage and engage with the folks that are there. Hucker reviews the incident and reports sent back from Clean Start. If the site does not meet criteria for posting, we will continue to monitor the situation through the use of continued reports and we will focus on those impact reduction efforts, working with partners as able. If the site meets the criteria for posting, we will put it on our list to post and triage that posting and cleanup with sites already in the queue. We notify social services and then begin coordinating with our internal and external partners. Then, at least 48 hours after the notice gets posted to folks informing them of a pending cleanup, city-contracted vendors come back to remove whatever is left behind. Property is stored in our storage warehouse in inter-southeast Portland along the Orange Max Line, and folks can come to reclaim their property within 30 days of its removal, free of charge. We coordinate closely with service providers, but we also are strategizing new ways of engaging with an extremely vulnerable and highly marginalized population. Part of that strategy involves a group called the Navigation Team. This is a group of highly specialized outreach workers who work specifically at high impact encampments and meet with folks where they're at. Once they've had an opportunity to engage and work with everyone present, they notify us and we post the site for cleanup. Here are some of the outcomes of their work. We have captured here data from eight sites they have worked at. They're currently wrapping up work at their ninth site now and we expect these figures to grow substantially from that work. Here are some of our performance measures. Could you go back and please give us a few more sentences on that? Because I think the work of the outreach teams is critically important. Yeah, absolutely. I think this number, particularly at the top, the number of individuals engaged, 443 people, I think is absolutely amazing. These guys, they go to... areas that we have identified as being high impact and they work for a temporary but unspecified amount of time and in that time they really are working with folks to figure out what exactly they need. So for some it's classes, others it's a birth certificate, I mean, it could be any number of things, but really the idea is to help them navigate resources and to have better access to services. Sometimes I think you sell yourself short. and I'm enjoying the presentation, but I just have to note here, you're helping people get IDs. You're helping people get into treatment. You're helping them get into housing and to permanent supportive housing. You're helping get people into shelter if they want to get into shelter. And you're helping, you know, I certainly appreciate the fact that you're helping people get basic things like eyeglasses. and connecting them to the Oregon Health Plan. Yes. So this, to me, is important to highlight because it's part of the compassionate response. Yes, and thank you, Mayor. Commissioner Harstey. Yes, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you. On that same note, I'm curious, what is the percentage of cleanups that take place as compared to sweeps that actually move people, right? So if you're thinking about you do X number total, right, of cleanups, how many of them actually end up displacing people who are houseless? Do you know, like, can you tell me what the percentage is or what the real numbers are? Sure. So our group doesn't engage in sweeps. We do specifically, we call them campsite cleanups. And when folks are given notice, to me, a sweep means that folks are coming at any time and they're not given any notice or anything like that. Let me rephrase my question. And so there are cases where because of the trash garbage collection, you sent a team out to actually clean up and assist folks who are living there with cleaning up the site. Is that accurate? I'm sorry, Commissioner. Could you repeat that? I'm sorry. That's okay. Okay. It is my belief that based on the calls that direct your team to go out, that there are places that you go, you're being called because neighbors are complaining about the mess that has accumulated. Is that an accurate statement? Yeah, essentially folks are filing a report about an issue for any reason. It could be because there's a mess. It could simply be because people are there. And that's why we have Clean Start Go to assess the site before we do anything after that. And so the information I'm trying to get from you is out of all the calls you get. Yeah. There's a percentage that are just about giving people the tools to keep their site clean, right? There's a percentage that you're working with this navigation team to help them get IDs and figure out how to troubleshoot whatever the issues are that can help them be more stable, right? But there's a percentage that there's actually a posting that happens that actually requires within 48 hours or 10 days, right, which is being proposed now, that this site is cleaned up. My question, my original question continues to be, what's the percentage based on all the cleanups, based on all the interactions, what are the percentages that are posted and required for people to be displaced from that location? We found that... January through June, 15% of all sites assessed ended up being posted. So just 15%. Thank you. That is very helpful. I agree with the mayor that I think the work that's been done to actually get better at a more humane and just approach. is really impressive. And I think that, I mean, there's some people that work for the city that come in and pat themselves on the back about how great they're doing, and I don't think that they're that great. You guys come in and you, like, undersell yourself, and I think that a lot of what you've learned through this process has been incorporated in this new RFP. So thank you for those answers. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. I appreciate your patience. So this is our group's performance measures. Folks can find this also on our website in more detail for those that are interested. Our group is not designed to solve homelessness. We're about public space management, but public space management that serves to meet the needs of everyone within our community. We walk a fine line between balancing the needs of a very vulnerable population and managing our public spaces in such a way that is acceptable to all community members. Simply submitting a report to one point of contact does not equal removal, but it does help to ensure that someone will have eyes on the issue to help address what is happening there. Thank you for having me here. I'm going to turn it back over to Lucas. Thanks, Johnny. Thank you, Johnny. That was great. And again, my name is Lucas Hillier, and I manage this homeless and suburban camping and act reduction program. I've been working in the city to improve the way that this program operates since 2016. You'll have to pardon my voice. I've been talking a lot over the last two weeks, as you can imagine. Over the last four years, through trial and error and extensive community outreach and engagement and many late nights, HUCRP has developed a tiered intervention approach to meet both our objectives and further reduce the traumatization of one of Portland's most vulnerable populations. As the Mayor stated earlier, we have learned that an organization who is willing to do this work needs to hire, support, and retain individuals who share life experiences with those living outside on Portland streets today. We have found this in rapid response bio clean and this price agreement now allows us to require trainings to match that rich lived experience with evidence based engagement modalities. An example of which we will require certification from the Crisis Prevention Institute and nonviolent de-escalation. We will require ongoing trainings and insertive engagement with neurodiverse individuals as well as CPR certification and how to properly administer naloxone. Other new components of this statement of work in this price agreement include severe weather duties, which was talked about earlier, which required teams to cease cleanup and removal and shift to assisting outreach teams in welfare checks, distributing blankets, hand warmers, and to even help with transportation to emergency warming shelters. Historically, this organization has done that because we've asked them and now this is a contractual requirement. We have also articulated clear instructions about what property needs to be stored and have greatly improved the property retrieval process with the goal of making it easier for folks to get their stuff back. The contractor will also need to make... Excuse me Lucas, sorry to interrupt you. I know you're on a roll there. This is an area that I know a lot of community members are very, very concerned about when you are deciding what to store and what is not storable. What's the difference between this new contract and the previous contract as it relates to how you collect, label, and store community members' belongings in this process? Thank you for the question. The previous contract was based on language in the Anderson settlement agreement and that language was very squishy and very ambiguous. It stated that all items reasonably recognizable to be of utility and or apparent value needed to be stored. The way that this program operated, when I first got here, the goal was to store as little as possible. So after going out into the field, I saw property getting thrown being thrown away that was nicely packed, right, under a tarp, but because it was wet, the decision was made that we're not going to store it. So working with the city attorney's office and the Oregon Law Center, we came up with a couple different lists of things that under no circumstance can we ever throw away unless they are literally dripping by a waste, right? And then there's a list of things that under no circumstance can we store, things like propane tanks or combustibles or drugs or anything like that. Illegal drugs. Illegal, yeah. Just one of these. Yeah. And so... Those two lists are now part of this contract. We developed a system to make it more efficient in the field. So when a crew comes to a camp, we have learned that the amount of time they're there doing the inventory can create safety concerns. So... while crews are in the field, we have a different colored bag system. So a clear plastic bag is for anything that might be, could possibly be property. And a black garbage bag is for stuff that is clear garbage, candy wrappers and stuff. That stuff gets scooped up, loaded into the truck, and taken to our storage facility, where there's three full-time employees who spend eight hours a day going through everything. Everything that we put our hands on has a picture of it, and it gets loaded into a spreadsheet. For sake of our due diligence to make sure that we're giving property back to the rightful owner, we ask folks to provide the location and the date of where their stuff was collected. Since we moved into the southeast Portland location, we have about four to six property retrieval appointments a day. Historically, folks would have to get on the 12 bus and go almost all the way to Tigard. We would have maybe one or two appointments scheduled per month, and half of those people would actually show up. So it was clear to us that this wasn't working for anybody. And so with council's approval, we were able to enter into a lease with a very big warehouse. We are now making the onus on us to try to make it as easy as possible for people to get their stuff back. Yep. Thank you. The contractor will also need to make, in this new statement of work, a qualified mental health associate available for crews in the field in emergency crisis situations, as well as conduct ongoing trainings for staff. And I believe the individual that Rapid Response is working with has also agreed to assist their staff in obtaining their peer support specialist certifications from the state of Oregon. I want to acknowledge the burden and the hardship this work can have on unsheltered poor lenders. No contract can eliminate all of those hardships, but this price agreement statement of work and the requirements therein point us in a direction to greatly reduce those hardships and negative interactions. Thank you, Lucas. Appreciate it. And I understand you have some invited testimony. Is that correct? That's looking at you. Yeah, no, I'm very good. Does that complete your presentation? It does. Very good. Thank you all. Colleagues, questions? I just want to express my thanks to all of you. And I believe that this contract has shown tremendous evolution and thoughtfulness relative to the original contract. And I want to thank you for that hard work. This is a report. I'll entertain a motion. I move acceptance of the report. Second. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. I agree with the Mayor that this is necessary and also appreciative of the work that you've all done. This does address many of the concerns that I've been hearing over the past several years and we will be getting frequent updates on how this is going and of course we'll hear from our constituents if it doesn't go as well as we hope. So I appreciated, Lucas, your, not only your work over four years but also your commitment recognition that it's going to continually improve the process, and also the statistics that we were given today showing only 15% are actually addressed, so that that should set expectations from community members inside and out that there's still going to be a lot of people living outside that will need our help. Hardesty? I also greatly appreciate the hard work. Lucas, I think you would agree that I kind of put you through the wringer last week because it was really important. that I understood why this proposal at this time. I want to make sure that for the record, the public knows that the plan is that you will have to come back to the city council before there is any extension of this contract, that we will have community conversations with frontline community members to make sure that they are their feedback is incorporated into whatever the next steps are and that number three that we will have a city council work session with invited testimony before any additional contracting is done with this one contract. I want to also encourage the folks that are working on the street to actually really engage with those community members who are frontline workers with houseless community members and help develop opportunities for them to be employed to be able to help with these cleanups as well. right? I think what you've done, Lucas, has been pretty phenomenal and I'm very grateful to your to your heart and your compassion around this issue, right? It's rare that we get to wear our heart on our sleeve and the kind of work that we do because this kind of work you can't make anybody 100% happy, but I am confident that we have the right people leading this program with the right kind of heart. But I will also make sure that we're held to the commitments that we agree to in order to move this contract forward. So I vote aye. Kaylee. Well, I want to thank our community partners, especially Street Roots for bringing their concerns to our attention and for being patient with us as we work to improve and move this work forward. I've been working on homelessness issues since I first arrived in City Hall three years ago. My office facilitated multiple meetings between community advocates, the mayor's office, and Huck Group. Working together, we made many improvements to the old contract, including a process that prioritizes health and safety concerns for cleanups and deprioritizes low-impact camps. weekly phone calls with resource providers to coordinate the needs of people in camps that are scheduled for cleaning, earlier notices to camps to help people prepare in the event they have to move, and the end of the use of prison labor to clean the camps. I'm also very pleased that we struck the agreement with ODOT, who had not adopted our new policies and policies We couldn't expect the public to distinguish between the city and ODOT and what they saw was people continuing to do the things that we said we weren't going to do anymore. So thank you for that. We now have a much more humane approach and have greatly minimized cleanups that require people to move, as we learned today. Just 15% of the sites moved. However, the biggest challenge in my mind remains and that is that if we are requiring people to move, I believe we have to have somewhere for them to go. We have to offer an alternative site or a shelter bed to anyone being moved against their will. And I haven't given up on that, although we haven't achieved that. My office through PBOT recently permitted a new volunteer overnight hygiene center in the central east side, and we are actively analyzing PBOT right-of-way to identify safe sleeping spaces that will give people living outside another option to avoid being moved against their will. I'll continue to push this work and to use all the resources available to me. I want to thank Lucas Hillier and his team. You guys have been amazing to work with and always very open to our feedback and willing to collaborate. I deeply appreciate that. The program is constantly learning, growing and improving. I also want to thank Jamie Duhamel from my office for her work on this item and just appreciate my colleagues for finding a way to move forward on this. I definitely support the short-term contract and the promise that we are going to do deep community engagement to make it even better. I look forward to being an active partner and I vote aye. Wheeler. I want to hone in on something Lucas said during his presentation. This is not our strategy to end homelessness. This is about public space remediation. And there are some sites that provide a very real threat to public health, to the environment, and to public safety. And as what I hope people understand, having heard the presentation, is this is done with compassion. It's done by people who have the lived experience, who understand the conditions of people who live on our streets. And it's done in a manner to connect people with whatever services they need to get off and stay off the streets and be successful. I believe it's a good, excuse me, you're going to have to sit down or I'm going to have to ask you to leave. Excuse me. Listen, realistically, given the number of sites, there will always be improvements that we can make and we should make. But I think you've struck an excellent balance here. And I want to appreciate the hard work you've put into it. And we will continue to work on our primary strategies, which are compassionate and effective to address homelessness, whether it's prevention. Last year, through the joint office in a home for everyone, 7,000 people received prevention services in this community, people who are at high risk of becoming homelessness. Last year, over 6,000 people were homeless. moved either from the streets or from shelter into housing. 35,000 people in this community received other services, whether it was prevention, shelter, access to services, or transitioned into housing. And we're working with both our state and our county partners on connecting people who need addiction treatment or mental health services. We work with non-profit organizations to connect people with domestic violence survivorship services. We work with providers around youth needs and youth services, and we work with our school districts. We work through the housing bureau on affordable housing. So there's many things that we are doing, and I want to acknowledge something Commissioner Fish might have mentioned if you were here today. Which is we have pursued a very aggressive set of goals around permanent supportive housing. To address those who are chronically homeless, those who have the greatest health needs. to help them get off the street. We committed to 2,000 units of permanent supportive housing in this community over 10 years. But we're being far more aggressive than that. In year one, we either identified or created over 850 new units of permanent supportive housing. So this is a part of a much larger strategy to address this humanitarian crisis on our streets. And I want to thank you for the great work that you and your team are doing. We appreciate it. I vote aye, the report is accepted. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, and as a manager, I would not be a good manager if I didn't thank my team, Jonathan and Katie Lindsay, who's on maternity leave right now. So thank you for the opportunity to talk about this, and I appreciate your time. And, Lucas, while you're at it, I forgot to mention Serafie Allen on my team, and I would be remiss if I didn't mention Serafie and the hard work that she's done and all of you have done on this as well. Thank you. And I want to thank my colleagues as well. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. The next item, Carla, is item number 16 on the regular agenda. Grant a 10-year franchise to Verizon Wireless LLC, DBA Verizon Wireless, for wireless communication services in the city. So this is a second reading. We have, excuse me, if you're going to keep interrupting, I'm going to ask you to leave. This is a second reading of a non-emergency ordinance. We've already had a presentation and we've heard public testimony on this item. Is there any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. Nay. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, number 17. Mayor, excuse me. That is an ordinance to grant a franchise, so it would require four votes. Oh, I apologize. You know what? I didn't mean to call the roll. I take it back. I'm pulling this back to my office. I should have read my notes. Without objection. Without objection. Does anybody object? I see no objections. Thank you. Sorry about that, Robert. I got ahead of myself. Next item, item number 17. amend a contract with Parametrics Inc for professional engineering services for the Lombard Pump Station upgrade and force main replacement project number E10920, in the amount of $691,373. Colleagues, these are items that I'm bringing on behalf of Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, this project will allow the borough to upgrade the Leonard Pump Station, which is deteriorating due to age and it's not seismically fit. This contract amendment is needed because in addition to the pump station upgrade, about a mile of force main sewer pipe, which sends waste water from the pump station to the Columbia Wastewater Treatment Plant, needs to be upgraded. Here today to give a brief presentation are Paul Suto, Engineering Manager, and Aaron Lawler, who's the engineer, both gentlemen are from Environmental Services. Thank you both for being here today. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Paul Sudo. Sorry? Is that better? Paul would just slide it a little closer. Is that better? Yeah. Okay. I'm Paul Sudo, engineering manager with BES, and Aaron's going to lead the presentation, and I'll be here to help answer questions. What was the item? Good afternoon, Council. I'm Aaron Lawler, Engineer with Bureau of Environmental Services in the Treatment and Pumping Systems Division. We are here today to request an authorization of a PT amendment with Parametrics, Inc. for the Lombard Pump Station and Force Main Upgrade. This is the second time that this project has been to council before, been to council so you may remember some of the slides that I will show. The first time was in March of 2018 to authorize the initial contract with Parametrics. An amendment to the original contract is required based on information gained during the condition assessment of the site and the forcement. Just a little footnote, this picture here, we'll talk about it a little bit more, but that is part of the force main that we are now going to repair. That is a man welding right after we had a break in the force main, so it's an emergency repair. This project was initiated to provide standard upgrade to the Lombard Pump Station. The pump station and force main was constructed in 1983. The electrical and mechanical equipment have reached the end of its useful design life. and they require replacement. We are doing some additional upgrades to the site as well, including installation of a standby power generator to increase reliability, as well as structural and seismic upgrades to the existing infrastructure to meet current code requirements and increase resiliency. The initial project scope included two investigations during the pre-design phase to gain more information and better understand some of the project requirements. These were a geotechnical investigation into the soil conditions at the pump station as well as a condition assessment of the force main, which is a pressurized sewage pipe that the pump station discharges into. The results of these assessments have indicated additional work that is required to successfully complete this project. These include ground improvements and full replacement of the force main. This amendment incorporates these additional tasks into the engineering design contract. Here I have some just reference point for you of where Lombard Pump Station is compared to the wastewater treatment plant on Columbia Boulevard. It's located in North Portland near the Port of Portland terminals, and it's adjacent to the Columbia Slough. couple aerial photos and an on-the-ground photo of the existing pump station. As you can see, it's very close to the slough. There's a rail yard right there that often prevents access to the site. It's part of the reason why we're providing standby power. So this is the new portion of work as part of the amendment. The results of the investigation conducted during the pre-design has shown that this nearly one mile long force main has begun to fail. In December of 2017, the force main actually had a localized failure. I showed that picture a little earlier. And the results of the condition assessment of the force main recommended replacement. During this assessment, we also determined that the current force main is actually oversized. So this replacement provides the opportunity to install a smaller force main. And with that, we're able to slip line this existing force main with a new one. So we're basically going to be threading a new pipe through the existing pipe. So a little bit of project background. The project was advertised for competitive selection in 2017. The project was awarded to Parametrics based off of qualifications. And we came to a negotiated contract fee that was approved by council of $959,746. Commissioner Burst, do you have your question? What did the council, thank you mayor, what did the council, what did you tell the council when you bought that original contract for approval? I mean, what was the scope of work that we were contracting for? Yeah, so it was for design services, engineering services, for the pre-design design construction phases of the pump station upgrade. And the scope of the pre-design included the geotechnical investigations and the condition assessment of the force main. And what was your level of confidence in your assessment when you did that initial proposal? Yeah, so I may talk about this again a little bit later, but when we came, the contract fee was negotiated in firm, but the overall scope of the construction and the project itself was low, and that was presented to council. I actually believe you asked me why was it low, and I said, explain that that's kind of a description that council requires based off of the unknowns associated with the project, which was soil conditions and the forest main condition. So as you can understand, when I see 72.3% increase in a proposal, that raises a lot of warning signs, right? Absolutely. Is that normal for you to increase a proposal by 72.3%? I would say it's not normal. No, it's there. I think you'll hear from a presentation after us about getting a condition assessment program going. But a lot of the assets that we have in the city, we've built and we haven't checked back on until it becomes time to do a major upgrade. So when we lay eyes on them, we learn a lot about that. And then my last question, because I know you've got some more formal. It says that 35.72% of this contract will go to disadvantaged minority women and emerging small businesses, and I need that broken out, disaggregated. What's going to minority firms? What's going to women? I need the whole list. Yeah, yeah, I have that. Would you like that now or when I get to that slide? That is convenient for you. Okay, I have a slide a little bit later. Put it on the list. Yes, thank you. So, jumping back to the project status, so we are still currently in pre-design. We've done nearly 30% design of the pump station. All work completed to date has been in the original scope of the project, so none of the work has been out of scope. But we were aware that these assessments could throw us in a little bit of a wrench, and so this is kind of a hard stop point to come back and explain what we found and you know, ask for this amendment to do scope, the work that is not currently in scope. So yeah, this is the force main. That is a picture of the repair after it was completed, but you can see that it was significantly damaged during that break. So these findings are a significant amount of works, and they could not have been incorporated into the existing negotiated contract. So we began negotiating an amendment, and that is why we're here today. And it will cover replacement of the existing forest main and soil improvements for seismic resiliency at the pump station. So Commissioner Hirsi, I think this will be where I will address those questions. So this is an overall breakdown of the contract, the amendment, and the total project cost that would be through construction completion. Again, this level of confidence of this... estimate is low and that is based off of the City of Portland's project estimate confidence level rating index basically because we're in pre-design. So I'm sorry, so even now coming back with this increase your confidence in this is low? Yes, based off of where we are in the project again I would say we are more certain now now than we were when we came the first time because we do have more information. But to move up to a moderate or a high, you have to be further along in the overall design based off of the index. I want to add something. Yeah, I want to just hopefully maybe clarify something. So I think the confidence is pretty high in the contract amendment that we're adding, the 691. It's low in that. 11.194, which that the contract amendment is a portion of that. And as Aaron was, I think, attempting to explain, we're only at that early design stage. So as we progress in design, we get more confident because we actually have something tangible to compare. Right now, we're kind of using other project ballpark numbers to estimate. And that's typically it doesn't give us a lot of a lot of confidence in our project estimating. What will be refined as we move forward would be the construction contract, the construction cost estimate, which is the majority of that figure that you see there. We'll have more detailed design to do better quantity takeoffs. As you can see here, we have disadvantaged, minority-owned, woman-owned, and emerging small business participation of 35.7%. I did do a breakdown. However, it's a little bit difficult because many of the firms that... this program they subscribe to a number of those different titles within the program so I was able to say that 66% of that participation is associated with disadvantaged and minority owned businesses 8% was is attributed to emerging small businesses or women-owned businesses. And 26% is kind of what I grouped as they subscribe to all of the DMW ESB titles. So they're a disadvantaged, they're a woman's business, they're a minority, as well as an emerging small business is what you're saying? That's what... 26% of those firms? Yes, that's what they qualify for. And so we estimate at this time to be clear, that's 26% of the 35 of the 35. And I do have the dollar breakdowns if you'd like. Okay. I would love to see that list at some time at some point. Yes, we the firms themselves because the way we calculate folks sometimes is not as accurate as I'd like to see it. Absolutely. Yeah, we can provide that one. So estimated project completion is June of 2023. So that pretty much concludes our presentation. Just to summarize, we're here for the authorization to execute an amendment with Parametrics for Engineering Services in the amount of $691,000, $372.90. Great. Thank you. Any further questions? Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? Not sure if they're still here. Lightning and Maggie had signed up. Nope, I don't see them. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. This moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Next item is item number 18. Authorize a contract with Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. for professional services for the collection system main force evaluation project for $4,498,823. Colleagues, as you know, Environmental Services manages both our stormwater and our sewer infrastructure. That includes about 2,500 miles of sewer pipe. that transports wastewater to the city's wastewater treatment plant on Columbia Boulevard. Most of those pipes rely on gravity, but about 56 miles of the pipes are force mains, and we just discussed one. They are pressurized pipes that move wastewater and stormwater uphill towards the treatment plant. This ordinance would authorize environmental services to assess and analyze the condition and reliability of the city's force mains. Jeremiah Hess and Molly Knows, McCord from the environmental services bureau will help tell us a little bit more about this. Jeremiah and Molly, thanks for being here. We appreciate it. Good morning. Good afternoon. I'm Jeremiah. To my left is Molly. I'd like to thank Paul for setting us up. He did. Absolutely. He was a good primer. As the mayor mentioned, we have a lot about 56 miles of force mains in the city. They're used to convey wastewater from pump stations at lower elevations to higher elevations. The majority of them are 60 to 80 years old and have never been formally assessed for their condition. A lot of these have a high consequence of failure, such as crossing highways, freeways, railroads, environmental areas, rivers, and that Failure could also result in a basement backup. I mentioned that no formal or comprehensive assessment of the condition of this system has been performed, and that's what this contract is going to authorize. What's in the photograph? What is that? Yeah, so that is the picture of a tool being inserted into a force main at a pump station. To do what? What's it do? It's going to inspect the pipe for... metal thickness measurements. It uses electromagnetics. So those are like the nodes on the end of those? That's right. There's sensors on the end of those yellow wands that use electromagnetics to scan the pipe wall and determine the metal thickness. And it's looking for obviously wall loss there, so like due to corrosion or something, which would be premature failure. Thank you. Yeah. So that's a good segue into the next bullet there. There's a lot of challenging logistics associated with these assessments, such as operational constraints. Most of these pipes can't be easily shut down for long periods of time because wastewater keeps flowing and we have to maintain service. For example, there's currently a pump station that's been out of service for approximately three months due to a force main failure, so they've had to bypass around that pump station, which is challenging, requires a lot of additional daily operations and maintenance staff to maintain that system and costs incurred there. Additionally, access is challenging. Most pipes are buried and pressurized, and they can't be assessed in the same way as the majority of the gravity system. Jacobs and their team of sub-consultants possess the sophisticated tools and associated data analysis capabilities. They're typically only offered by select service providers who specialize in water and wastewater infrastructure asset management. And this project ultimately meets the Bureau's goals of protecting public health, safety, and the environment. So what we're proposing to do is create a risk-based framework for the project that we will be able to utilize within the Bureau in the future after the project is completed. So the approach is a tiered condition assessment. Basically this is a pretty common approach in the industry in that you start in what we call a desktop analysis and basically gathering the required information based on data and then you progress in sophistication as far as the inspection techniques. So the desktop analysis will tell us. what data we need to collect and how much, what tools and methods we can use to collect the data, what software and data systems we need to have in place to store and access and utilize the data best to our advantages, and what sort of analyses we need to perform to make the best use of the data that we're being collected and using. And then we'll progress on to these different levels of inspection based on that desktop analysis, external inspections, basically looking at the outside of the pipe, applying non-destructive examination technologies, and then doing internal inspections, which is what we showed in the previous slide with that tool being inserted and what's being shown in this slide here, which again, that's a little bit more challenging. because of some of those constraints that I previously mentioned. So from that data information, we're going to then forecast the remaining useful life of these assets and develop informed maintenance, repair, and replacement strategies. And then establish the future funding requirements based on those proposed strategies. And that will include capital replacements likely and O&M, but the capital hopefully is sometime out. What is our dedicated city employee doing in the top photograph? Yeah, so what you see in the bottom photograph is what's called a smart ball, and that's a tool that is a highly sensitive acoustic sensor, and what's not shown is it's usually encased in like a foam material, ball that makes it buoyant. So it floats through the pipeline, potentially buoyant, so it's kind of centered. It's not rolling along the bottom of the pipeline. And it uses acoustics to gather leak and gas pocket information throughout the pipe. So that's what she is doing there. She is inserting the Smartball into a wastewater pipe at a POM station. Well, first of all, I don't know her, but she is a great person, a great human being for being willing to do that. That looks like very difficult work. Absolutely. Yeah, that's excellent. Thank you. Yeah. So the schedule is four years for the project. That's primarily because a lot of this work has to be done off-peak seasons and when the flows are lowest, so there's constraints there with the weather when we can actually do the work. And we have to have time to plan for those kind of conditions as well in terms of the inspection requirements. The budget is 4.5 million approximately as we mentioned for the contract. Of that, approximately 1.6 million is dedicated to subcontracted developing minority women in emerging small business firms. Which is approximately 35% of the contract. I don't have the specific breakdown. It's on page 28. It's on page 28 of the contract. Correct. Yeah. So that's got the breakdown. Okay, great. Okay. Next. I don't have that on me, but we can get that to you. We've got it. Okay. Great. That's about it. The funds are available in the sewer system operating fund, and at this time no additional resources or full-time employees are required to do this work. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? So this might be a question for you. It may be an OMF question. As I think about these capital projects that we start, like so you're about to start this new capital project. You didn't say what your confidence level was and the dollar amount or whether or not you would be coming back after some initial assessment and wanting more money or needing more money to complete the task. So I guess my first question is, is that it? Is it really just going to cost $4.5 million or is that just the beginning of what it's going to cost? At this time, our confidence level is high in that estimate because we're just here to assess. We're not here to build or fix anything. So the scope that's been – We've been looking at it. Correct. Correct. Very clear on that. So the scope that we've identified has been well-defined. And I guess it will be an OMF question because clearly we have a lot of infrastructure needs in the city of Portland. And I just – for me personally, I just don't know how – All of these individual infrastructure projects actually fit into a big picture of what the city is doing for infrastructure improvements. It feels very piecemeal, and it feels like various bureaus have various ideas. projects where they're doing infrastructure improvements. I'm just concerned that we continue to say okay to infrastructure improvement projects without having a big picture look at where all the infrastructure improvements that we need and then doing some kind of prioritizing about what we need to do first. There's no question that we need to do this but just as an overall statement I'm just really concerned that we did this very piecemeal. So that's, Commissioner, that's different for the utilities. They do have a capital improvement plan that we approve that they are then able to budget for and prioritize. So again, it's like in the overall, I appreciate that. Yeah, they've got their own budget. And so then our interaction with that is when we approve the rates as part of the budget. And I can't speak for all of the bureaus, but I know with water, sewer, and even PBOT, those dollars can't be moved across bureaus. They're coming from specific sources like utility rates, payers, and highway funds. So I know we've... ramped up collaboration with BES in particular, between BES and PBOT, to make sure that we're taking advantage of any kind of cost savings or time savings to minimize disruption to the public. And we're not tearing up brand new roads. Thanks. Thanks. Great. Thank you. Any further questions? Carl, any public testimony on this item? No one else signed up. Great. It was a great presentation. I appreciate it very much. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. And our next item is item number 19, and this is a second reading. Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Hillsdale Crest rainfall derived project number E10941 for an estimated cost of $5 million. Second reading, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Coordinances adopted. Second. Last item is the forfeits agenda item. Please, item number 19-1. call special elections to fill the unexpired term of Commissioner position number two on May 19, 2020, and if necessary, August 11, 2020. Colleagues, this item sets the dates for the special election to fill the seat of Commissioner number two, the Commissioner of Public Works. Of course, I'm talking about Commissioner Nick Fish's position. Thank you for agreeing to hear this as a four-fifths item. It was very important to Commissioner Fish that he structure and time his resignation so as not to influence in any way the process or outcome of the election. Nick believed the office he held was sacred, and he wanted the best and the brightest in our community to vigorously compete for the honor of succeeding him on this council. The charter sets parameters for filling of a vacancy, and this item is prepared by our city attorney in consultation with city, county, and state election staff. We have Tracy Reeve and Deborah Scoggin on hand to answer any questions we may have. I have one question. That's your cue to come on out. I don't see Deborah. There she is. Welcome. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. My single question is I understand that the election will be held in May on the regular ballot. Will the filing deadline for candidates be the same, which is March 10th? It is the same. Okay. Everything else should be the exact same except for- Yeah, I'm sorry, you have to identify yourself for the record. Deborah Scoggin, City Elections Officer. The filing dates should all remain the same, except for it will be a shortened filing period that I expect to begin on Monday. Great, thank you. Can you move that closer? Commissioner Fritz had a couple of questions. Actually, I just want to clarify that the open and accountable elections program will be available for this election that will have different timelines. than the current filing, and those will be posted on the Open and Accountable Elections website today. Essentially, the rules are the same, but the calendar is different. Thank you. Very good. Commissioner Hardesty, did you have a question or a comment? I just wanted to put on the bracket that about the charter, just to say that there are people that think that we should be having the runoff, if there's a runoff in July, based on the charter. And I understand that federal law actually lays out the appropriate process for this kind of election. Is that an accurate statement? There are a number of factors that go into that. There are federal law requirements, there are state law requirements, the charter deadlines have been in the charter for a long period of time. We looked back over the last, I think this is the fourth time since starting with former Commissioner Blumenauer, who's of course now a United States Congressman. And the council in each of those instances has extended, found it reasonably necessary to extend the time periods. One of the things that we're sort of mentally putting on our to do list as the Charter Review Commission comes up, is to look at modifying those charter dates because they're really not feasible. Very good. And I understand overseas ballots have something to do with the date we've selected as well? In particular, military and overseas ballots have to be mailed out 45 days prior to the election. So scheduling an election in July is not feasible. Very good. I appreciate it. Carla, I'm not clear whether or not we take public testimony on a fourth or fifth item. Well, it is a resolution. Oh, it is a resolution. Is there anybody here who would like to provide testimony on this item? I don't know if they're still here. Diana and Edith Gillis. Thank you. Good morning.
 Afternoon. Good afternoon, yes. That's right. It is now afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Diana Gutmann, and I signed up, and honestly, I'm in support of this. I don't know what to say. I encourage the public to... nominate the person that they think would fill the seat best because this is a seat that is for public service and Commissioner Fish was a wonderful public servant. He helped so many people. He cared about the people of Portland and that's something that anyone who takes this seat should be aware of. And He worked with the indigenous communities to help understand how we took care of our land and I had the privilege of being at the salmon celebration over the summer and it was a very very special event and I can't even begin to express how sad of a day this is and I learned so much from Commissioner Fish and I We as a city are going to learn in this process and take what he has taught us. And I do believe that whoever comes forward will be the right person. And so I just, my heart goes out to his family, to everyone here at City Hall. And that's all I have to say. Thank you, Dinah. That was a beautiful tribute. Thank you. It's a great way to end our morning session. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. So to be clear again, the Open and Accountable Elections Program will be available for candidates for this seat. There are multiple rules to that program. And so before candidates do anything, I encourage them to contact Susan Motte or Daniel Lukau and ask for a training so that you make sure that you do everything right because the election cycle for this seat was started on December. January 2nd and goes through August 11th. And as I said, the timeline will be posted on the Open and Accountable I'm getting beat. The Open and Accountable Elections website, which is linked from the front page of mine. Yeah, it's fitting that we're voting on this at the end of this meeting as we started at the beginning. It's a sad vote. Aye. Hardesty. Aye.
 Udaly.
 Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. The resolution is adopted. We're adjourned. All right. Good afternoon, everyone. This is the Wednesday, January 8th, 2020 session of the Portland City Council. Carla, could you please call the roll? Fritz. Here. Hardesty. Here. Udaly. Wheeler. Here. And Commissioner Udaly will be with us in just a moment. We'll now hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Thank you. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the City's business. The Presiding Officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. To participate in Council meetings you may sign up in advance with the Council Crooks Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for a public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. If you are a lobbyist, please identify it. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you're filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you, Carla. Could you read the first item, please, which is item number 20, time certain. approve funding recommendations made by Children's Levy Allocation Committee to renew the Community Child Care Initiative for July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2023. Colleagues, I'm pleased to introduce the next item which comes from the Portland Children's Levy, asking us to approve a 5.1 million three year agreement with the Community Child Care Initiative. The Child Care Initiative provides child care subsidies for working families, as well as support for culturally specific child care networks, including Somali, African American, Latinx, Spanish-speaking, and Slavic. If approved, the levy funding will continue to support more than 300 children with annual access to affordable, high-quality child care. The service is vitally important to many parents and families in our community. And here to talk more about that is Levee Director Meg McElroy. Along with sharing more insight into the value of the child care initiative, she'll also introduce child care resource and referral staff who can speak firsthand about the program. Good afternoon, Meg. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor, Madam President, and Commissioners. First, I just, before I get started, I wanted to extend my heartfelt sympathies for the heaviness that is all being held in your hearts. That empty chair is quite a presence today, and our hearts from the levy go out to all of you, your staff, and certainly Commissioner Fish's staff. Thanks, Meg. Thank you. So I'm going to review briefly the Community Child Care Initiative, what it does and its progress over the last four years. And then as the mayor noted, I'm going to introduce colleagues from Child Care Resource and Referral at Mount Hood Community College who implement the Child Care Initiative on behalf of the Children's Levy. So the purpose of the Community Child Care Initiative is to support affordable child care and high-quality child care in our community, which is a priority in levy ballot language. It really works on this by two things. It provides child care subsidies to low income working families and it also provides direct support to five child care networks that are culturally specific serving their specific communities. I'm going to talk mostly about the child care subsidy initiative because it's the largest part of what this initiative does. And then I'll talk a little bit about the networks, and I'll introduce the folks who make it all happen. Thank you. So as I said, the Child Care Subsidy serves working families whose incomes are 200% of the federal poverty level or less, and it helps assure that families pay no more than 10% of their income toward child care. Commissioner Hardesty. What is the federal poverty level? Off the top of my head, I believe it is around $25,000 a year for a family of four. Thank you. Thank you. So if they made $50,000 a year or less... with a family of four. The federal poverty level is calibrated toward the number of individuals in the household and the income that comes into that household. And I don't have all of those figures off the top of my head, but I typically keep the family of four figure in mind. The median income for a family of four in Portland is around $80,000. So these are families who are making significantly less than the median income in our community. That's why I wanted that on the record. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. The Child Care Subsidy Initiative through Community Child Care Initiative augments the state's employment-related daycare subsidy. That subsidy is calibrated to pay for only 75% of the market rate of child care. So levy funding is helping families with the difference between what their actual child care cost is and paying no more than 10% of their income in addition to what they receive in a state benefit. That state subsidy benefit also only helps families with incomes up to 185% of the federal poverty level. So the levy is helping families additionally between that 186% of federal poverty level and 200% of federal poverty level. Providers who serve children who receive these benefits are all licensed and participating in the state's SPARC quality effort, which is a quality rating and improvement system that providers are using to enhance their own quality based on their own goals. Levy funds, like I said, also supplement state funding to provide coaching and support to five culturally specific childcare networks. There are family child care businesses, small businesses, looking to improve their quality too and enhance their small business practices. And in particular, the levy funds helped launch a Somali culturally specific network in 2018. So you'll hear more about that. And the entire initiative is administered at Child Care Resource and Referral Multnomah County. The levy first launched this effort in 2007 and funded it for five years when levy revenues exceeded projections at the time, and we had to cease funding the initiative when levy revenues took a decline in the last recession. At the time that it first was funded, professional external evaluation showed that it increased the quality and stability of care for the families who participated, and that providers involved invested the payments that they received back in their own quality goals. The levy relaunched the initiative in 2015 when levy revenues began to climb again. At that time, there was a $2 million commitment over four years to serve at least 100 children a year. In 2017, as levy revenues continued to outpace projections, the allocation committee and council at that time extended the funding through this coming June of 2020, added $1 million a year, and increased the commitment to serving 300 families, excuse me, 300 children a year through the subsidies and providing that supplemental funding support to the child care networks, including launching a new Somali network. So current funding level that we're asking council to approve from the allocation committee is $1.6 million a year that supports over 300 children and their families with child care subsidies and the provider networks. A little bit more background, the act that governs the Portland Children's Levy allows up to 10% of funds to be spent on non-competitive grants. So this is one of those special initiatives. It crosses multiple program areas of the Children's Levy. It serves children ages 6 months to age 12. So it is both an early childhood and an after school endeavor in terms of how levy monies are prioritized and obligated. It offers training and technical assistance to the child care providers involved, and it advances system improvement by making more child care providers available in our community. It is also particularly helpful for child care providers who are essentially small businesses in our community who would have a lot of barriers to accessing and competing for the typical competitive grants that are issued through the levy. So by contracting directly with Child Care Resource and Referral, which holds state funding for providing training and technical assistance to local child care providers and is licensed, quite versed in child care regulations, levy money going directly through this channel allows more providers to access levy resources. It addresses, the Community Child Care Initiative addresses one of the chief priorities that came out of the community engagement process that the levy engaged in over the past nine months. We had a, excuse me, through a nine-month-long community engagement process that we contracted with Empress Rules, Equity Consulting. One of the primary needs identified in that process was affordable, quality child care that parents can choose from and know that their children are being cared for well. And then finally, the reason that the Child Care Initiative calibrates its subsidy to helping families pay no more than 8 to 10 percent of their income toward child care is because national research suggests anything above that level is cost burdening to a family. And disproportionately, families of color and low-income families experience that cost burden and are often paying more than 20 percent of their income toward child care. So that was an outline of kind of what the Child Care Community, excuse me, the Community Child Care Initiative is. And now I'm going to just review some data on progress of the initiative. These data come from monitoring reports that we get from Child Care Resource and Referral, that they also submit to the Early Learning Division, the Department of Ed, and then also via family survey and provider survey that we issued. So over the past four years the Community Child Care Initiative has served 30% more children than it projected to. Last year it served over 365 children. The majority of those children identified as a child of color. So the graph here shows you among all of the children served or the past four years on average. Almost 22% identified as Latino, 15% as African American, 12% as multiracial. The project served very few Asian identifying children or African immigrant identifying children. About 2.1% identified as American Indian Alaska Native, 30% as white. And around 80% of the data were not reported for children. So that is an area where we would like to work with the R&R to improve data collection to make sure that we understand that we're reaching our priority populations. Nearly 20% of the children served were from homes where the primary language is other than English. And over 50% of the children served reside in East Portland. And as I noted earlier, the initiative serves children up to age 12, but about 43% were in the preschool age group of 3 to 5 years old. There were 55 child care providers who participated in serving children through the child care subsidy portion of the program. They comprise about 5% of all licensed providers in Multnomah County, but they are about 18% of the licensed providers who are involved with the state's child care quality effort, SPARC. Eleven of the 55 providers have graduated from and or are currently involved with those five child care provider networks that I mentioned earlier. So they are small family child care providers in a culturally specific setting getting coaching and support from somebody who shares their cultural background and they're serving their own community. About 20 of the providers have a star rating in that state SPARC system. And on average, about 30% of the children in the child care subsidy effort have received care from a star-rated provider. This map shows you those 55 providers, where they are located throughout the city. So as you can see, there's a high concentration of them in North Portland and in East Portland. A couple that are outside of city bounds, but the important criteria for us is that the child receiving the benefit is a resident of the city of Portland. Okay. This table helps kind of help you, helps paint a picture more of the financial, key financial pieces that we try to understand about families and providers who participate in the program. As I noted earlier, we are trying to make sure families pay no more than 10% of their income toward child care. And if they are eligible, they're receiving the state subsidy before they can draw down on this city-funded subsidy. As I also noted, the state-funded subsidy provides only 75% of the market rate of child care. So it's leaving families with a pretty big hole to fill, and the effort of this initiative is to help fill that hole. And again, the state subsidy... only serves families whose incomes are up to 185% of the federal poverty level. So the levy funding is trying to help families who are in that sort of next step of low income between 186% and 200% where very few benefits are often available. So over the last four years, on average, the median monthly income for a family receiving the CCI subsidy benefit is around $2,100 a month. The cost of their child care monthly is around $1,100 a month. The payment on average that they're receiving from the state of Oregon is around $632 a month and the contribution that the levy provides is around $373 a month. We, as I noted earlier, we did two surveys, one with families who are participating in the child care initiative and one with providers. And we used questions that were used in the previous external evaluation, adapted them to make it a more quick and easy online survey. And of the families that we sent the survey to who had had a child participating for at least six months in the last two years, 54 percent of them responded. And what they indicated is that their participation in the program helped improve their finances, it increased their access to high-quality care, and they had overall tremendous satisfaction with their experience. There is a 20-page report that accompanied the documents in preparation for your decision, and it goes into further detail about the results of the survey as well as many of the comments that families shared with us. I have two here, but in the interest of time, I'm not going to read them so that we can hear from the staff who are here to join us today with the project. Similarly, providers participating with the project also received an online survey that was nine questions. Fifty-eight percent of them responded. They also indicated high satisfaction with their child care business income during their time participating in CCI. They reported that they were using income through that program to reinvest in their own quality and their businesses. They said it substantially increased the number of children that they're serving who they are considered low income or and are receiving the state subsidy benefit. And they also reported overall high satisfaction with their experience of participating in the program. The child care provider networks that I mentioned earlier are a parallel effort within the child care initiative. There is sort of the subsidy piece I just reviewed and then the child care networks. These are two-year cohorts of 12 to 15 culturally specific child care providers who receive a coach. They have monthly meetings. They attend trainings. They create specific business development goals and quality improvement goals in the state framework, and they receive support to make those accomplishments. Four of those networks started with state funding in 2014, and levy funding allowed Child Care Resource and Referral to add a fifth network focused on Somali child care providers. And the network coordinator from that network, Muna Farah, is here to talk with you all today about her experience, and the Child Care Resource and Referral Director, Christine Waters, and the... Child Care Initiative coordinator, Deb Johnson, is also here to share their experience with you. So for those four networks that were originally launched in 2014, 57 out of the 58 providers participating are involved with the state child care quality effort and eight have achieved star ratings. The newest Somali network, as of last fall, had 16 providers who had completed 899 hours of training. Five had achieved licensure, and they were receiving support from their coach to do so. Their coach was present during licensing visits, helping them complete and navigate paperwork, understanding what the regulations are, and building relationships with the licensing staff. 10 of those Somali childcare providers also attended a statewide early childhood conference for the first time, and their network coordinator was there to support them and also offered workshops specifically for them in their language. So with that, I'm going to conclude. the child care initiative is reaching the priority populations that we're trying to reach in our community. It has had high success and high satisfaction with the families and providers involved, but we do have areas for improvement where we're trying to do better by the demographic data collection and some of the feedback that we heard both from providers and families is about increasing specific populations access to the program including children with disabilities. So with that, I'd like to introduce Christine Waters, Deb Johnson, and Muna Farah to come on up, and I'm going to vacate my seat so they can talk with you more about their experience, and then we'll answer any questions. Thanks, Meg. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. Thank you. Hi. Thank you so much for your time today. Thanks for being here. Thank you. My name is Christine Waters and I'm the Director at Child Care Resource and Referral of Multnomah County. And I just wanted to reiterate a couple of things that Meg said, but also maybe talk about something that isn't quite on the report and talk about how it's been, the levy funding has been effective for our program overall. So number one, the levy funding has really created some positive influences beyond things that are in the report, such as it's the first program that really took a holistic look at child care. It's the first program that I'm aware of with public funds that looked at both the provider side, business side, as well as the family need. So providing the full cost of child care for families also influences the child care business. So child care businesses are able to stay in business more. They're able to keep quality staff, low turnovers, and then in effort to partner with families that helps to sustain long-term child care. It's the first effort that giving the full rate of care to providers has encouraged participation. So a lot of programs are not able to participate with ERDC or choose not to based on heavy burden of paperwork, etc. And CCI providing that gap in funding has really encouraged participation, which then opens up more opportunity for families to choose high-quality care. Moving up to the 200% of poverty has helped. fill that gap as Meg said in between the 185. To my knowledge, there's not many programs that offer resources for that income level. And also, in paying the difference between cost of care and the co-pay, often families have really high co-pays, and they're working with the ERDC program with very low incomes, and so they're having to piece together child care options. Maybe they're going to grandma's for a couple hours, and then they're getting picked up over here and moving around. And we know that young children really need relationships, especially early on, and so when they're able to sustain long-term partnerships with family child care, the child's overall experience is much better. The family doesn't have to panic about did the child get where they need to be? Can they get to work on time? So all of those things are in the report, but I think are worth repeating. I think the other piece that's really important for child care resource and referral in our community is that the levy funding, as it's helped to keep our focused child care networks going, it's helped to keep set up a subsidy system that looked at different things that were outside of the box beyond the 185 full cost of childcare, those ideas. They've been able to help us leverage funds, specifically Baby Promise, which is a state funded infant toddler contracted slot program. We were awarded 74 slots for Multnomah County with state funding. I think a lot of the reason that we brought that in was because we had this experience running the subsidy program already. We had experience contracting with providers. We had experience in partnerships and relationships with DHS. The CCI program, the way it was developed, is now informing how Baby Promise may roll out. It's informing how we make contracts and et cetera. Overall, CCI has really brought Parent Voice to the center of all of our programming, including leveraged funds. It's deepened our relationship with both culturally specific communities and state agencies such as licensing and DHS. I want you to hear from Muna and Deb, so I'm going to let them talk a little bit more. And yeah, I guess I'll turn it over to them. Is it on? There we go. Thank you. Thanks, Mike. And move it so that it's comfortable. There you go. Thank you. My name is Mona. I work with the Somali Network Group, and I began working with them 2018, May. We meet every month once. We do a training. The training is basic, different topic every month, and the topic is, Once I do the training, we talk about what is culturally purpose and what is the role in this country and what is cultural purpose. So we discussed, and this is culturally, and you shouldn't do this. This is the role you should follow. Also, I do a home visit with the Somali Network groups. Every month, each one of them, I go twice to their home, and I watch what they do and what is culturally and the rules, and they have to follow so they won't get trouble with the licensing. So I train them this is not to do or this is the right thing to do. I also help them navigate what they need in the system. Like most of them don't read or write, whether it's English or whether it's Somali. So if they have a letter, help them read and this is what it says and this is what is the rule and what you have to do. One of, before I came, there's a couple of them, they've been doing a childcare for a while, but somehow they didn't know how to get the license and what steps they have to do and what exactly they knew what exactly they need to do for example one of the providers wanted to get her license for a while but she couldn't get it whether there's a couple like you have to test the water and you have to do couple class and she didn't know and that's what I help her navigate and I help A lot of them help them get their license to whether they, the training they need, I help them with them and thus. But, and another thing they did, we, Child Resource and Referral helped them is for the first time we did the conference and most of the provider was impressed with the conference and it was their first time and they were just amazed by the conference and they were like, oh. When I invited the conference to them, they thought it was only us, like the Somali network. Then they met a lot of different people. They see the keynote speaker and they were just like, oh, this is a professional job. And they were so happy with that conference for the first time. the whole community started talking about it and they knew what it was. Now they feel good about their job and what they're doing. Another one was attending the conference and just having somebody they know go in the home visit and helping them everything. It's also the community we come from, you have to at least trust the person to come to your house and, you know, even navigating the licensing people. And I go home with them. When the licensing person doing a home visit for them, I also go with them and just navigating everything. And they just now... It's the everything they need for child. The provider need, they just call me and I just help them with everything. I am little, but that's, I think that's it. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. I'm Deb Johnson. I coordinate the CCI program and I'm the person that has usually the first contact with parents about the program. and gives them the application and I also recruit programs. We partner with DHS and 211 and other early childhood programs to get referrals to our program. And I had to look at it this way for the reality of cost of child care for me. So for a parent making $4,000 a month with two young children at a certified family center that charges just what DHS reimburses, that would be $1,000 for a preschooler. and $1,140 for a toddler. And if their rent is $1,200, that leaves them with $660 for the rest of the month for everything else. So it's all right. And she doesn't qualify for anything, no food stamps or any other subsidies. And the reality for our families is, and I had a mom call this week that is over income, is going to have to figure out how to pay for child care, where to go for child care. We have a lot of families making about this much at $15 an hour. That's $2,600 a month for their gross monthly income. Their ERDC copay would be $581. And with our help, their copay is reduced to $260. And at $1,250 an hour, we have a large number of families at that rate also. Their copay would be 387 through DHS, and with CCI help, it's 208. So parents tell me all the time how much just a little bit helps. I had a dad call yesterday. We're only going to be able to help him with $27 by reducing his copay. He said, I appreciate it. Don't think I don't appreciate that will make a difference to me. One mom said, $40 savings, that's a tank of gas for me, and that really makes a difference. Families are faced with not being able to accept a job sometimes when they get, they find out what their co-pay is going to be and they can't afford it. Because they don't have an extra $600 to pay for childcare, their first time out with a job. So we can help reduce that cost for them. Parents call all the time talking about the difference between their rent's gone up, their childcare's gone up, and they have to choose between having a job or feeding their kids or paying the rent. It's just really hard choices. Sometimes people get a small raise, and that puts them over the income limits for any kind of help, but their raise does not equal the amount of the loss of benefits. So they're, again, out of luck. So sometimes we can help if they don't qualify for ERDC because they got a raise at that 200% level. Okay. Early on when we started this program, one of the child care providers said a couple of children in her program really were in desperate need of winter coats, and she was looking at resources. The mom got help with CCI, and that freed up some money, and the next month her kids came to school wearing warm winter coats. Okay. One mom had been in a, I don't know, I can't remember if it was her family taking care of the kids or what her child care situation was, but she was able to go to a center and said, my child is going to learn now. She felt so good about where she was able to go that she would not have been able to afford otherwise. We had another mom who had been in recovery and her child was in foster care. She got a job, her copay was too high, she told me I want to pay for childcare, I just can't afford this copay. And when, with, between DHS and ERDC and the childcare center and CCI, we found a spot for her child. Her copay was something that she could afford and her child was placed back in her care. It opens possibilities for options that they might not have had otherwise. We are also able to add new programs that qualify so people can stay in their community. If they're in a child care program that they're happy with, we don't want people to have to move just to get the help. So we've added new programs through the entire four or five years we've been doing this, which has been really nice for people to stay where they're comfortable and where their kids already have relationships with somebody. An advantage for programs is, people are saying, is collecting their full rate. Otherwise, they're forgiving it or scholarshipping it and essentially paying for the care themselves because they're not able to collect their full rate. And childcare people are warm, nurturing people people and the business suffers because of that sometimes. We also can, if ERDC will allow a number of absences during the course of the month, if a child doesn't make the number of hours for full-time, then the program can only collect the part-time rate from ERDC. So we are able to give them their full-time rate so they can collect their full fee. I know we're out of time. That's all very helpful. Colleagues, does anybody have any questions? Yes. Great. Thank you. Meg, are you going to come up and do some... I just wanted to be present in case there were questions.
 Okay.
 Great. Excellent testimony. We appreciate it. Thanks for your perspective. Thank you so much. Carla, do we have any testimony on this item? We have two people signed up. Very good. Charles Bridgegrain-Johnson and Edith Gillis. Come on up. Welcome.
 Hello. My name is Edith Gillis, and it seems that the more I come here, the more I'm sharing more of my personal life. You can get my whole biography after a while. So... I'm speaking as someone who is one of the founders of the state of Oregon and developing childcare standards and a founding member of the Metro resource childcare resource referral network. A founding member of PRO, Providers Resource Organization, provide training and professionalism of childhood and of course an early childhood education or child development specialist. I founded and directed a small private school in Park Rose because there was nothing existing in Oregon, Idaho or Oregon. Washington that would meet the needs of my son and children like them. I'm very grateful that the Children's Levy is one of the few programs in which voters got what they were promised. There's oversight and there's good follow-through and good results. I am delighted at some of the progress, the spark, quality progress. Nothing is ever as good as soon as much as I want. It's something that I care passionately about, both in the standpoint as a parent, as a child, and a foster parent, as a child care provider, and an early childhood educator, and as an advocate and a mandatory reporter of children who have been abused. For example, we're talking about 10% is the co-pay for child care rate When my family of four had a gross family income of under $8,000 a year, we did not have $5 a month for sanitary napkins or for child care or anything else. People who are on SSI, who have been qualified by the federal government as being disabled and very poor, it's a felony if they have... over $2,000 of assets or liquid assets. If you can sell your underwear, your books, your kitchenware, and it totals up to $2,000 more, you're kicked off. A lot of us who have disabilities cannot afford have our children have the care that they need to have. We cannot afford to work, and yet you need to have the child care in order to get the therapy, the doctors, the transportation, the training. I'm a victim of long-going chronic violent crimes. And that requires a lot more support and fewer options and ways to transport. So while I'm delighted and I want you to support them and keep funding this and promote this, I want us to also be keenly aware that it's inadequate for a lot of families. As a child care provider, I always, and as a foster care parent, I always paid a whole lot more for the children's needs than I was paid. But child care providers are not being paid enough. They're not being educated enough. They're not being trained and supported enough. Parents are not getting enough education and advocacy and consumer education. Children are not getting enough of the support. And we can't just prepare children for schools. You have to have the schools prepared for children and have better schools for them. Thanks, Heath. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm not used to saying good afternoon, Commissioners. Charles Bridge, Bernie Johnson. And... It's nice being here whenever the police bureau is not on the agenda. We get to talk about great public expenditures on children and programs that are actually... Actually micro-entrepreneurism. I'm not the biggest fan of capitalism or entrepreneurism, but it's good to know that... a diverse spectrum of women, including Somali immigrants, is possibly moving towards living wage jobs as childcare providers because of what we're doing with the money from the Portland Children's Levy. So that's great. Definitely I look forward to unanimously passing this. One thing I think that we have to bear in mind is that as Edie sort of touched on, the challenges facing these parents. When we heard about a foster care success story where the child went back into the parent's care and the parent was able to have child care, we also had to go through at least three acronyms to make that success happen, but at least it was a success story. So I hope that... You know, the Children's Levy created a great 20-ish page supplemental information that's attached electronically to the agenda. I wish it could always happen here. It's great for the public, so I want to encourage anybody that's watching or listening to actually go follow the link in the agenda. Find out what these up to $80 million in different six focus areas for the Children's Levy are doing. One thing that's unfortunate is that we have to use this funding mechanism. When we have employers here like Airbnb and Apple Corporation, Apple Corporation, which can consistently afford to hire at least one police officer to park their car next to their store. That tells us that we're really not getting successful corporations to pull enough of their own weight to fund child care. Now, I can't say that Apple doesn't fund child care. I haven't talked to a few people I know that work there. But the point is, is it shouldn't just be the children's levy. This city and this state need to work towards a better progressive taxation system so there's more money in the pot to fund these without having a little, a bunch of micro bureaucracies, the children's levy, and all these other acronym soups that parents have to suffer through. to get what's best for their children. So unanimously vote yes and keep your eye on building a better, more responsive system. Thank you very much. Thanks for being here, both of you. Carla, does that complete public testimony? That's all who signed up, yes. Colleagues, any further questions or thoughts? I just want to thank Meg and the entire team and everybody who provided testimony today. I think it's great to know that there is an opportunity in this community to support working families, to provide safe and nurturing child care. And I'm also pleased to hear that there's a concerted effort to reach out to culturally specific organizations to help reach those families as well. So this is great. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. Next item. Carla, can you please read item 21? Proclaim January 8, 2020 to be Urban Tour Group Day. For those of you that may not know, the Urban Tour Group is a nonprofit organization of volunteers that provides free tours of downtown Portland to the elementary school students in our community. And they've been doing that since 1970. These educational walking tours provide information on Portland's history, our culture. our culture, our architecture, and our resources. I'd like to take a moment to thank the Urban Tour group and its group of many volunteers for taking the time to educate our youth about our fantastic city. This is a great opportunity to teach our youth to care about our city and to then grow up and be active and engaged people in our community. With us today is the president of the Urban Tour Group, Sandy Page, and president-elect of the Urban Tour Group, Karen Pinder. Thank you both for being here today. We sure appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city council members. I'm Sandy Page, president of the Urban Tour Group. At the base of the Skidmore Fountain is the guiding principle of the Urban Tour Group. Citizens are the richest of the city. We share the meaning of this motto to inspire young students what good citizenship means and things that they can do to be good citizens themselves. And we tell them about the deeds and the actions of citizens who have made a difference in our city's history. Our guides serve as ambassadors to Portland, sharing Portland's history, its planning for the future, its public art, architecture, and let them see several different sites. We offer three different tours that, while visiting different sites, always inspire students to appreciate what makes a thriving city and the role they might play to be a part of a success of their city. Thank you. What started out in 1970 as a few members of the Women's Architectural League and Wives of Architects has grown into an organization who tours around 5,000 students a year. And I wanted to introduce two of our longest serving members. Gerald Lauer, who has been a member for 49 out of the 50 years. Great. And Sue Friedman, member for 45 years. Today we have 168 members, men and women from a wide range of careers who have given up their time and talents to provide two-hour tours to educate and enrich students' understanding and appreciation of Portland. It is an honor for me to represent the Urban Tour Group as president, and it's also an honor that you, Mayor Wheeler, honor the Urban Tour Group and our 168 members. And I have to add a personal note. Whenever Mayor Wheeler has time and can talk to our students, we visit City Hall, my tour does, And you take the time to talk to our students, and I really appreciate it. And I think some of you council members also do, but I haven't been on that. Our 2020 celebration year has two presidents, and I would like to introduce to you my successor, Karen Pinder, who will become president in June. Thank you. Urban Tour Group is a nonprofit, self-sustaining organization, and any fundraising we do is just simply to train our new incoming and existing members so that we can be the best tour guides possible but we also provide transportation funds to downtown Portland for our schools and especially in particular those schools that would not be able to participate because of transfer transportation needs and We want to extend a very special thanks to the many businesses, churches, city, state, and federal entities who allow us into their beautiful buildings so that we can share these with our students as well. Most students that come on the tours have never seen some of these amazing sites, such as this one that we're sitting in right now. And along with this amazing honor today, we will be celebrating our 50th year by participating in at least one Portland Rose Festival parade, enjoying and sharing a beautiful commemorative poster designed by a local artist. hosting a gala event at the Oregon Historical Society, and they have been a long time, very generous sponsor of our group on October 1st, where we'll highlight our 50 years of existence and service to the students of the Portland Metro area. So thank you very much for helping us kick off this exciting year. And please accept our open invitation to join us anytime you'd like to take one of our tours. Thank you. Thank you. And could I ask you ladies a question? Are these some of your volunteers? They're all volunteers. You're all our volunteers. Thank you for the work you do. And we have a number of volunteers down here as well. Colleagues, any thoughts or questions? Commissioner Fritz? So I've been feeling a bit sorry for all of us today. It's been a heavy day and it's been a very, I feel like I'm doing a difficult job. You've just reminded me, chaperoning those four people. field trips when my kids were in elementary school. Oh my goodness was that difficult. You have the patience of saints. Thank you so much. I learned a lot as somebody who was just getting used to Portland back then. And every time I go to the Benson Bubblers, I say thank you Mr. Edson. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would just like to add, the reason I try to make myself available is no matter what kind of day I've had, when you bring the kids in, they're really hilarious. And just off the top of my head, some of the favorite things, I always ask them, what have you seen and what's really cool? And you never know what they're going to say. And some of the favorite questions they've asked over the years, one kid raised his hand and asked if, as mayor, do I get access to a private jet? Laughter And to which I answered, there are many fine benefits to being the mayor of this incredible city, but unfortunately that's not one of them. And then one of the other questions I was asked was by a little girl. She asked quite sincerely, she said, do you live here? Okay. To which I responded, yes, yes, unfortunately I do. But it's just great, and I can tell that they're having a lot of fun and that they're learning a lot, and you're opening their eyes many times for the first time really to the incredible assets that this city has, and you're also helping lay the foundation for the future support for all of our civic and cultural institutions in this community, and it is so appreciated. I have one sort of specific question, and this is really a cheap way of helping you to get a plug in. How do you raise money for what you do? When and where do you do it? And if somebody's watching this on TV and they're inspired by the work you do, how do they get involved? We have one fundraising auction the first Thursday of December where – We think of fun activities that our members would like to do, and they either bid on them or just do a silent auction. And they bring their friends, and that's how we do it. We have one fundraiser that... It brings in most of our funds that we need. Before I get to Commissioner Udeli, if somebody wants to be a volunteer, how would they get in touch with you? They could go online to Udeli. And I'm trying to remember. Urbantourgroup.org. Commissioner Hardesty is signing up. Thank you. Good. Thank you. Only the president can't remember our e-mail address. But they could contact us, and we send out an application and interview people, and then We provide nine weeks of training. Well, I should say nine sessions over nine weeks, usually a good half day of training. That's great. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly had a couple of comments. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. First of all, I want to say I'm not sure if your groups have come to my office or not. We get lots of classroom groups coming, but you're certainly welcome. I can't show the kids where the secret passages are, but there is a cool old safe at the top of a spiral staircase that I think is worth noting. The mayor may not have a private jet, but he does have a private restroom, which I remain very envious of. It's the one unknown perk. The one unknown perk. Only one. And finally... Yeah. I mean, that's the only reason I would want to run for mayor. Just saying. Finally, I've heard that City Hall used to have a penthouse on top of it. I have not been able to find any further details or find any photographic evidence. I'm assuming that was residence for the mayor, but maybe not. It's where the auditor lives currently, isn't it? Well. Well, sadly, it is not there because I forced one of our security staff to take me to the roof. In my first year here, and it's just a really boring HVAC system up there now. But I just wonder if all the wealth of knowledge in this room, if anyone might be able to solve the city hall penthouse mystery. Not today, but maybe we'll research that. If we find out, we will write to you and tell you what we find out. Thank you. That's great. Any further comments before I read the proclamation? So the proclamation represents the values of the Portland City Call and by extension everyone in this community. Whereas the Urban Tour Group is celebrating the 50th year of outstanding and meaningful service to the school children and the entire city of Portland. And whereas the purpose of Urban Tour Group is to provide children with an awareness of the urban environment of downtown Portland by guiding them on walking tours. And whereas Urban Tour Group gives children a sense of the city's past, present, and future and broadens their knowledge of the city's architecture, history, and present activities. And whereas, the Urban Tour Group encourages children to assume responsibility for the world that surrounds them by developing knowledge of and pride in their city and good citizenship for the future. And whereas, the Urban Tour Group is a non-profit program which has toured over 190,000 children since its creation in 1970. And whereas the Urban Tour Group has provided training to hundreds of volunteer guides, enabling them to give tours that are age-appropriate, accurate, interesting, and of course fun, while providing support to schools needing transportation assistance. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim January 8th, 2019 to be Urban Tour Group Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day as Urban Tour Group members continue to celebrate their 50th year anniversary. Thank you. Thank you. Would you mind if we got a quick photograph up front with you holding the proclamation? Sure. If you could hold that. Thank you very much. Thank you for coming here. We appreciate it. Thank you so much and congratulations. Which it is yet? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'm really quick ones. Hello. Hello. Over here. I'll get on this side. Overlap shoulders. Just overlap shoulders a little bit. I got a whole bunch here. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. That's fantastic, Cheryl. Yes, of course she did. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I just realized I was born the same year. I'm as old as Earth Day. It's kind of, you know, old as dirt. Old as dirt. Old as Earth Day. Yeah. Aww, that woman went to school with Ted's mother. That's cute. Do you want to go into recess for five minutes? We can't do the next slide so we'll tell. Caller, we're going to go into recess for five minutes. All right, we're the third. Using my new powers, right? We were looking for the penthouse, no success. That's right. Yes, yes. I haven't found it yet, Commissioner, but we'll let you know. I do have to save this note for the archives. Welcome, private jet. All right, next up. Carla, we're back in session. Next up is item 22. Please, time, sir. Report on recent work from the city auditor, police overtime, Portland building construction contract, tax accountability, and various follow-up reports. Good afternoon, Madam Auditor. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Wait, I'll get my microphone, sorry. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Before we begin, I'd like to extend our condolences to Commissioner Fish's family and staff and acknowledge just how much we will miss him and his enthusiasm for transparency and accountability in city government. It was my honor to serve with him. Thank you. We are back before you today to share three recently completed audits on police overtime, the Portland building renovation contract, and accountability commitments to voters. Before we get started on those, though, I want to bring your attention to a new process we started last year publishing follow-up reports. Thank you. Improving programs and operations, using taxpayer money efficiently, and ensuring equitable outcomes from city service delivery are the goals of our audit work. To achieve them, bureaus must act on our audit recommendations. Beginning last January, my office began using brief reports documenting bureau progress to implement recommendations. Our prior practice was to track progress and report it as an auditor's office performance measure, but that fell short of giving credit publicly when bureaus took action and giving them a nudge when they haven't. We issued three follow-up reports in 2019. By design, the reports are brief and use a green, yellow, red graphic to indicate implementation status. In future presentations to Council, we will include these reports in more detail as time permits. We also look forward to the day we publish our first follow-up audit with all green icons. Now to the new audit reports. With me today from my audit team are Elizabeth Pape, Tenzin Gonta, and Jenny Scott. Elizabeth will start with police overtime. My name is Elizabeth Pape and I'm going to talk about the results and recommendations of our latest audit on police overtime. We found that police were working a lot of overtime, nearly 250,000 hours in 2018. That's equivalent to more than 115 employees. These overtime hours affected officers out on patrol interacting with the public. The most hours worked by any single patrol officer in one week was 97 hours. Patrol officers worked more than 20 hours of overtime in one week 1,100 times in 2018. Long work hours like these cause fatigue. Researchers have documented that officers who work excessive overtime were more prone to accidents and injuries on duty, had a higher incident of burnout which can lead to early retirement, used sick time more often, and fell asleep more on duty. We found that there was no mechanism to identify officers who may have been putting in excessive overtime and in danger of being over fatigued. 10% of patrol officers consistently worked more than 20 hours of overtime in a week, and one worked more than 20 hours of overtime more than he didn't, 27 weeks in 2018. Sergeants had no way to identify these outliers. Some cities place limits on the total number of hours, including overtime, officers can work in order to prevent fatigue and abuse. Seattle has a limit of 90 hours. San Francisco has a limit of 60 hours. Denver has a limit of 64 hours. In contrast to peer cities, Portland did not have limits on the amount of overtime officers could work. Bureau staff at all levels said there was no sense in looking for ways to limit overtime because of the existing personnel shortage, and the numbers the Bureau reports to the City Council reinforce this message. We found that reasoning to be based on faulty assumptions that overtime data were reliable and management decisions about when to use it were sound. The numbers in the personnel shortage category that's reported to council include instances when sergeants asked officers to work patrol on overtime above shift minimums when they wanted extra people. At least some portion of overtime attributed to personnel shortage was instead the result of a computer problem. We documented instances in which the system recorded overtime as related to personnel shortage when shifts were staffed above minimum. Missing or inaccurate data made it impossible for the Bureau to verify whether personnel shortage overtime was only used in cases where shifts fell below minimums and which sergeants were responsible. We also reviewed the Bureau's program to allow officers to work off-duty overtime for private employers. Officers worked 19,000 hours of overtime for 89 private employers in 2018. But there are risks to providing this service to private employers. Secondary employment can delegitimize the police force. Staff said that sometimes business owners didn't want police to arrest people even when they committed crimes. They said owners mostly wanted police for visibility and that it was problematic when public observed a uniformed officer or sergeant who didn't arrest someone committing a crime. Secondary employment can create an appearance of political favoritism. The Bureau approved a contract... for security at an event hosted by the Southern Poverty Law Center, even though the contract explicitly stated that it was a private event intended for donors. In contrast, the Bureau denied a contract related to an event hosted by the Oregon Liberty Alliance, determining that it was political and largely for private security services. Thank you. Secondary employment can result in biased policing. Commanders said they struggled at times to reconcile requests for police services with the Bureau's approach to racial equity. Staff seemed to appreciate the danger that private employers might request police to target people of color and had considered this risk in some of the requests that were denied. But there was no way to document this consideration because the criteria for denying contracts did not include concerns about racial bias. commanders didn't discuss this concern for contracts they had approved. Secondary employment can burden city finances. The amount the city billed for secondary employment did not cover administrative costs, such as time commanders spent reviewing and approving contracts, the cost of scheduling secondary employment, the time administrative staff spent processing payroll, or the time accounts receivable staff spent billing customers. To ensure that all personnel shortage over time is accurately documented and to allow supervisors to better manage patrol over time, the Bureau should provide useful reports about staff over time to supervisors, limit over time as other departments have, and improve over time data collection. To ensure the public benefit of secondary employment outweighs the associated risks, the Bureau should revise and document the contract approval process so that the Chief's Office conducts the primary review of contracts, report publicly on contracts approved, hours worked, and finances, and create rationale for overhead charges that include the cost of payroll processing and billing. And we'll check back in a year to make sure that the Bureau has followed up on our recommendations. Thank you. Excuse me. Commissioner Hardesty. I would very much like to ask questions on this report because I will be gone when all of the audits have been completed, if that's okay. Go for it. First, I want to just thank you. I'm always very impressed with the quality of the work that your office does. I've never once seen an audit that wasn't thorough, thoughtful, and I just want you to just first know just how much I appreciate the hard work that goes into audits and how clear your audits are in providing us good information. Having said that, I am very concerned that, as we saw in the chart, that we continue to use the excuse of not having enough officers as the reason for this excessive overtime. And you mentioned in the report about a North Portland, North Precinct which hires officers for overtime, sometimes double and triple hiring them when they just need one and they end up with three. In your conversations with the police bureau, did the police bureau offer any advice about how they're going to make sure that that does not happen in the future? So that issue happened because of a glitch in the software that the bureau uses for scheduling shifts at the precincts. But it took six whole months to figure out that there was a problem. Why do you think it took so long to figure out that two or three people were showing up for one shift? I think the Bureau doesn't have good reporting, or at least at the time of the audit, it didn't have good reporting to show which shifts were overstaffed. And so we've encouraged them to collect data better and to also produce regular reports so that more people can keep an eye on these things. And I just want to say that's normally a recommendation to keep better reporting, but the reporting doesn't seem to get better. So I'm sure we're going to be talking about that as we move forward. I'm also very concerned about fatigue, both for folks who are working excessive overtime within the police bureau, doing police work. and then those who are also working outside on other private employment. Do you have any data to show how much of that crossover there is in those two activities for overtime? I didn't look at separating that out. That data is there, so that's something the police bureau could provide to you. I think it would be really important to know whether or not we've got people that are working excessive hours for overtime on duty and then working excessive hours for a private company. The one 97 hours a week, I just can't imagine anybody working 97 hours a week, right? But that's an outliner, right? That's one person. The ones that stand out for me remembering were mostly ones working shifts, not secondary employment. And have we addressed the problem of people working overtime to complete reports? That was another recommendation that we suggested that the sergeants would keep track of which officers were acting as outliers and using report writing over time because that could be an opportunity either for training on how to write reports better or maybe it would be identifying areas of abuse. And I think the last question that I would have is my concern that there – My concern that we may have too lower level of supervision making those decisions. When we have sergeants making decisions about how dollars are spent, without supervision from their supervisors, then I think we end up spending money in ways that are inappropriate and not consistent with the mission of the police bureau. I noticed that you did point out that after we lowered the level of decision making around how dollars are spent in various precincts that it appears that then overtime is out of control in some of those areas because we have a sergeant making decisions rather than someone in a higher-up management position. And so we recommended that not only does the Bureau create reports on officers and seeing which officers are working excess overtime, but to also look at which sergeants are approving more overtime so that they could also get feedback from their supervisors. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you. Well, I share many of Commissioner Hardesty's concerns, including issues around secondary employment, which I find problematic in a variety of ways. Yesterday we heard that PPB prioritizes staffing for their core functions. I've heard since I've been here that personnel shortages are keeping them from fully staffing different divisions and that they have to make tough decisions about allocating their resources, I find it really difficult to reconcile those 19,000 hours of secondary employment with that claim. 19,000 hours is roughly equivalent to nine full-time officers per week. I guess there's not so much of a question in there as just wanting to put a statement on the record about that. And the other very serious concern I have is unlimited overtime. I think we absolutely have to address that. Yeah. I don't deny the personal shortages may sometimes necessitate overtime, but we don't want tired officers on duty. We don't want tired people behind the wheels of cars. We don't want tired people making life and death decisions. And if you want to respond to anything I just said, feel free. But I'm sorry, I would be losing Jeopardy right now because I did not phrase those things in the form of a question. Would you agree that? Would you agree that? Yes, would you agree or appear to comment? One of the things about limits is that it's... It's not necessarily going to take away from the Bureau's flexibility to staff when it's understaffed. There's a few people who are really outliers who are working excessive amounts of overtime. But what having a limit would do is give everyone a reason to say, no, you need to go home and sleep, and someone else can pick up the slack. Okay. And if I could address something that Commissioner Hargitsey said, Ann, that you addressed too, is the upshot of this audit is that, you know, and you were speaking to the sergeants, and we already asked sergeants to do a difficult, complicated, dynamic job. And what we want them to have are the best tools available to make really good decisions, to manage their staffs. and to know who might be tired, who they've been tapping too much, or who's been volunteering too much, because I think it's my understanding a lot of the people who are working overtime are volunteering to work it. And that's really what we think is most important is that as managers, which sergeants are, that they have the best tools available to them to make good decisions. And if every member is seniority based, right? So you go to the most senior person first and offer them overtime, and then you go down the list from there? That's right. Is that accurate? That's what I thought. You know, you talked about not keeping public records of contracts that were denied. I was under the impression that any documents were public records documents that could be accessed. And so I'm just wondering why Portland Police got into the habit of keeping some contracts and tossing other ones. I can't toss things out of my office, so I'm just curious as to why they could. A lot of the reason is that the process for approving contracts has sort of evolved over time. What's happening now is a lot of requests will come in through the police union and then sort of be almost worked out before they even make their way to the commanders and to the chief's office, which is why... and I think the chief agreed with us that it would be better for it to start funneling in through the chief's office. So some of the— I thought we had changed that. I'm sorry. Did we change—has that changed in the time that you were doing the audit, that process change? Not during the time we were doing the audit, but I think that's something that my understanding is that they're considering. But— One of the things that happens is contracts sort of get denied in an informal way. So by the time they come into the chief's office, they're already sort of going to be signed anyway. So it's not necessarily that they're throwing out public records. It's more that it's an informal process, and they're just not keeping records of what they say no to. Could I just give an update? The assignment process has been moved back into the chief's office. Okay. That's the first thing. You can check that box. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I... Oh, sorry. It's okay. One last question. Uh, you, uh, you said, uh, labor agreement requirements were not being enforced. You found 71 incidents in 2018 when officer or sergeant was compensated with time off for secondary employment. Time off at a future date instead of payment is problematic because when patrol officers take time off, they can be backfilled with someone on overtime. Could you talk a little bit about what part of the labor agreements are not being followed that you highlighted here? I'm not entirely familiar with it offhand, so I can't reference a number or paragraph, but there is a provision that says that for secondary employment, officers will not be compensated with time off and they'll have to be paid in cash or with the pay time and a half to compensate them. So they're not allowed to bank the time in comp time, which they can do when they're working regular overtime. They can either take time and a half pay on their paycheck or they can sort of bank it to use it at a later time. And so we found instances when officers were using, they were banking their time instead of getting it in their paycheck that week. So this is a private contract with a private company that is supposed to pay these officers for being employed under that secondary employment contract? No, actually, the Bureau and the City pay them. The City does all the billing to the private customers. It comes in and it just gets paid in their paycheck. Ah. But you found 71 incidents, which to me is pretty problematic in one year of that not happening the way it's supposed to happen. Yes. Yeah? Thank you. Just one more question. We had a budget note for fiscal year 2017-18 that the Bureau would achieve full cost recovery on secondary employment. I understand the Bureau recommended a $50 an hour increase. the Portland Police Association pushed back and said that was too much and it wasn't raised the full amount. Do we know how much it was raised and whether or not they've achieved full cost recovery on secondary employment? I haven't done a follow-up on it yet, so I can't answer that question, but that's something we'll look at. I'd love to know because, I mean, it's absurd that we would be subsidizing police service for private employees. private businesses. We'll take a look at that when we do the follow-up. Thanks. Thank you. The next one is the Portland building contract. Good afternoon. My name is Tenzin Gonda and I serve on the city auditor's performance audit team. The city auditor has completed a series of audits during the Portland building renovation because of the project's high profile nature, complexity, and cost. Early audits contribute to the accountability and oversight of a construction project. In addition, early recommendations for improvement or correction are less costly than if identified after construction. Our first audit from December 2016 covered the planning phase and ended with the selection of the City's main contractor. Our second audit was published in June 2019 and followed up on the 2016 recommendations that the City should closely manage for the Portland Building renovation to be a success. Today we are sharing the results from our third audit which was released in October 2019. The report is titled Portland Building Contract Cost Reviewed Were Consistent with Contract Although Required Cost Classification and Calculations for Final Payment Need to Start Now. This third audit focused on the city's main contractor for the renovation. As shown in this graphic from the Office of Management and Finance, the city as project owner chose the delivery method on the left. This means that unlike the traditional approach shown on the right, the city is using one main contractor for the Portland building's design, construction, as well as relocation of city employees. Thank you. As a result, most of the renovation activity is included in the design, build, and relocation services contract with the City's main contractor. As of March 2019, the contract amount was $157.5 million and $94 million or about 60% of the total have been billed thus far. The Portland Building Contract includes requirements for how this the contractor will be compensated for costs, submit contract changes, and select subcontractors. These are common focus areas for interim audits of a construction project and a construction contract. The City Auditor hired construction audit experts, Schilberg, Evans, Schenck Consulting to evaluate the City's compliance with the Portland Building Contract requirements. Auditors drew conclusions based on testing from a sample of project costs, change orders, and subcontractors. The audit found many leading practices were employed on the Portland Building renovation. Generally, the contractor was following the contract requirements in the three areas audited. Let's now go into detail for each area. Costs billed by the contractor were mostly accurate, supported with detailed monthly expenses, and allowed by the contract. The city's billing review process was thorough and aligned with construction industry practices. Changes to the contract that auditors reviewed were well managed, properly approved, and included costs and activities allowed by contract. The city approved $10 million in changes after setting the contract price in December 2017. Subcontractors were selected by the contractor using sound outreach, advertisement, bidding, and evaluation practices. The contractor shows 140 subcontractors with contracts that total $122 million. In addition to these positive results, the audit identified improvement areas where we make specific recommendations. Let's now go into more detail for each area. The cost classification had not yet been completed by the City or its contractor. This classification is required by contract and is an essential piece of information needed to prepare for the contractor's final payment. Without it, the City may be challenged to comprehensively evaluate the reasonableness of contract costs or contract compliance. In the absence of this information, auditors estimate $77.8 million, or 49% of the contract amount, is tied to actual costs subject to an audit. The other 51% of the contract amount does not require support for actual costs and is not subject to an audit. Calculations for final payment are important because some bills have been based on estimates and may result in cost savings once compared to actuals. One area to scrutinize will be personnel costs because they are the largest and most consistent source of cost savings on construction projects. For example, the city's main contractor has billed some personnel costs based on estimates. It will be critical for the city to compare these estimates to actual costs paid by the contractor. When the contract does not specify when and how project costs will be reconciled, the City and the main contractor have informally agreed to perform final calculations as part of project closeout. Calculations for final payment will be time consuming and should begin now rather than waiting until the renovation is complete. Finally, lessons learned from the Portland building renovation should be shared to benefit other city construction projects. Examples of areas for future improvement include clearer contract language about cost documentation and completed project management plans. Moving forward, the city auditor will monitor and report on the city's implementation of these recommendations as part of our office's annual follow-up process. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, my name is Jenny Scott and I led the audit released last month called The City Needs to Make Realistic Commitments to Voters and Ensure that They are Delivered. During our audits of programs created by the Arts Tax, the Cannabis Tax, the Portland Housing Bond, and the Gas Tax, we noticed a trend. Across most of these city referred measures, the city made commitments about what new resources would be used for oversight, annual public reports, annual audits, and administrative caps. However, the city's implementation of some of these accountability protections fell short of what was promised. In our audit, we examined the city's implementation of accountability commitments made to voters. This audit was unique because city council was the oddity. We didn't want to focus only on the bureaus that have been involved with city referred measures in the past, since future initiatives may involve different bureaus. We found that there was no consistent assessment of the feasibility of commitments made to voters. Although council approved all measures that they placed on the ballot, the council meetings did not include discussions about each accountability measure the city planned to promise. And the fiscal impact statements did not include information about the administrative burdens and costs to implement the accountability commitments. Portland is not alone. Other cities did not have a unique mechanism to help ensure that commitments made to voters were realistic. We found that the city is not always clear when communicating commitments to voters in ballot titles and explanatory statements. The city attorney's office drafts the ballot titles and the summaries cannot exceed 175 words. On the other hand, the explanatory statements are typically written by the commissioner's office that sponsors the legislation and are often informed by polling. Unclear language and varying levels of detail may confuse voters and can make program implementation challenging for bureaus. Portland's commissioned form of government can make program implementation more disconnected from commitments made to voters than in other cities. Commitments can fall through the cracks or diverge from what was promised to voters when there are changes in leadership coupled with unclear commitments. There is no central and consistent monitoring once a voter approved city tax or bond is passed to help ensure that accountability measures are established and consistent with what was promised to voters. Oklahoma City and Austin assigned monitoring of voter approved programs to the city manager's office to help ensure that commitments to voters were delivered. Are you making a case here for a different form of government? I am. I want you to know I support that so but I just wanted to overtly ask the question. Is that, are you making that case? Well we, we're, we're arguing that it's harder to ensure that the city delivers their commitments because, because of this commission form of government. Personally I agree with you. Time wasn't short. We could have a debate but let's not. I just had to take the opportunity. You knew I couldn't resist. I know. To help ensure that ballot commitments are achieved, we recommend that before preparing language for City referred ballot measures, City Council should direct bureaus to assess the administrative burdens and costs to implement planned accountability measures to ensure that they are feasible. These assessments should be documented so that the meaning and intent can be referenced when the program is implemented. Make commitments in the ballot title an explanatory statement to voters that are smart, specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, and when appropriate, time-bound. Specify the position or body responsible for monitoring accountability commitments. Early verification that accountability measures are implemented and regular monitoring to assess that they are operating as intended should be included in these duties. In addition to recommendations for City Council, in our audit we shared information on ways to approach accountability commitments in future ballot initiatives. These are available in the audit report and in the one-page highlights document. Thank you. Thank you. Do you have any additional questions? I do not. Does that complete your report? That completes our presentation. Madam Auditor, I'll entertain a motion. I don't think the auditor usually likes us to accept your report. Would you mind if I made some closing remarks then? Please. Very good. So first of all, I want to thank the auditor for the recent reports that we heard about today. The police overtime audit, the Portland building reconstruction contract audit and tax accountability as well as the other follow up reports associated with these. Regarding the overtime audit, the audit centered around three key areas. The first was data collection, the second was reporting, and the third area was secondary contracts. On data collection, I would argue that data collection has improved as a result of the audit. And as a result of the audit, Portland Police Bureau has developed a data informed model to determine minimum staffing levels. Sergeants and command staff now have access to a Tableau dashboard, which has improved overtime reporting and management at the Portland Police Bureau. With regard to reporting, since the audit, the Portland Police Bureau has refined the overtime dashboard to include metrics by division, assignment, type, individual, and approval level overtime data. PPB's next steps include training for all supervisory personnel on the dashboard to improve their understanding of overtime usage. Additionally, the Portland Police Bureau will launch a public-facing dashboard by April 2020. We look forward to working with you to continue to enhance those opportunities. On secondary employment contracts, actions have been taken to more effectively manage secondary employment contracts. Senior management oversight has increased. PPB's chief's office is now reviewing all contract requests and deciding which contract will be approved and which will be denied. In January, PPA bargaining sessions will begin and secondary employment will likely be discussed as part of bargaining. In summary, the changes in overtime management by PPB have improved clarity and transparency in the management of PPB overtime dollars. I want to be very clear, the work is not done. PPB is continuing efforts to effectively manage overtime dollars to address staffing shortages while providing for the public safety. With regard to the Portland Building reconstruction, the Portland Building reconstruction contract audit confirms that the city has been complying with financial best practices in managing the contract for this project. This has also been noted by the Portland Building Community Oversight Committee, which has consistently praised the project for its transparency and its commitment to financial stewardship. I particularly want to highlight the finding related to the contractors selection of subcontractors. The Portland Building Reconstruction Team worked collaboratively with the prime contractor, Howard S. Wright, to carry out outreach and procurement methods that helped us to meet our ambitious social equity goals for diverse contractor and workforce participation. We're very proud of the hard work the Portland Building Reconstruction team did in meeting those goals and responsibly managing this contract. I also agree with the audit's recommendations on areas for improvement, including the need to begin calculations for final payments immediately and to share lessons learned from this process to inform and improve future city projects. And finally, I appreciate the recommendations for improvement in the audit of accountability for voter approved taxes. The city has by and large delivered on the commitment we've made about how voter approved tax and bond revenues would be used. We can do better to make our commitments about accountability measures clearer and more specific to improve their implementation. I look forward to working with my fellow commissioners to take these recommendations into account in future measures that the city may place on the ballot. And I want to thank you all for your hard work on this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And we will take about a seven minute-ish break and we'll be right back. Carla, are we ready? Yes. All right. We're back in session. Carla, could you please read item number 23? Direct the Bureau of Development Services in coordination with with Portland Parks and Recreation and Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to conduct stakeholder engagement analysis and develop a proposal to address recommendations made by the Planning and Sustainability Commission and Urban Forestry Commission for trees in development situations. Colleagues, we now continue our work to strategically strengthen Title 11, the city code that regulates trees. Last month, as you'll recall, we extended 2016 amendments to Title 11 to December 31st, 2024. These amendments strengthen tree preservation requirements, especially preservation of larger size trees in development situations on private property. At the same time council took this emergency action, we also heard the need to address exemptions in certain commercial and industrial zones, reducing the critical tree size diameter and a broader Title XI review. Today, we will hear from representatives of the three bureaus responsible for administering Title 11 about a resolution that will guide this work. My direction has been clear to the bureaus. We must bring legally defensible proposals to strengthen Title 11 and do so as quickly as possible. I've been directing my bureaus to prioritize these areas of work. As a result, bureau staff have changed their workloads so that they can meet these enhanced or these accelerated deadlines. I'm grateful to the bureau staff for working hard to do so. I'd like to introduce an updated resolution with technical changes. These changes clarify the direction to bureaus regarding the analysis the city must do regarding exemptions in certain commercial and industrial zones. The changes also include an earlier deadline for the second analysis regarding critical tree size. We have two versions, one that shows the edits and the track changes, and one without. And I want to thank my colleagues for their hard work on this. Commissioner Fritz and I have been running around today and, frankly, having some fun with this. And I want to thank you for your hard work with this. Commissioner Fritz, would you like to offer up the substitute, please? I move the substitute. Thank you. Second. We're going to tell you what the changes are. I just, also, if I might just acknowledge Commissioner Eudaly was the one who set this ball rolling, and she and I have been doing some back and forth. We're not allowed to meet all together except when we're here, but we are allowed to have conversations that our staff have been meeting, and so we think we've got to a good place, and we hope you agree. Yes, and I want to acknowledge Commissioner Udaly as well, and I thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for your hard work and your team's hard work on this. So we have a motion. We have a second for the substitute. Any further discussion on the substitute? Hearing none, call the roll. Fritz? This is just to put what we've handed out on the table, and we'll hear testimony on it. Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler. All right, substitutes on the table. Thank you, Sam Diaz will begin the presentation. Good afternoon, Sam. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. For the record, my name is Sam Diaz, liaison for the mayor to the bureaus of development services and planning and sustainability. So we return to council to present a resolution focused on strengthening Title 11. We have an updated resolution. Thank you for these improvements. And we have hard copies of this resolution for people in the audience right next to Carla to follow along. We'll also be posting this updated resolution on the Bureau of Development Services website. So to explain the resolution, today we have representatives from the Bureau of Development Services, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and Portland Parks and Recreation, our city forester. These bureaus are critical to safeguarding and growing our urban tree canopy. These bureaus are also critically important in bringing into council legally defensible changes to Title 11 as soon as possible. And first, before we get into that, I want to thank the over 130 commenters on the proposed resolution. Mayor, as you directed on December 12th, we posted the draft resolution for public comment on BDS's website, setting a deadline for comment on December 27th. Even amongst the holidays, we received 132 different commenters. We reviewed, categorized, and responded to these comments in the comment and response summary table, which we also posted on BDS's website. During this public comment period, we received many comments in support of a clear resolution that directs bureaus to take swift action to strengthen Title 11. We also received comments supporting the resolution's focus on removing exemptions in certain commercial and industrial zones and reducing the critical tree size threshold. We received many comments supporting revisions to the resolution as well. The majority of these revisions call for earlier deadlines for the bureaus to accomplish the work. The resolution includes deadlines, the updated resolution includes deadlines that represent an estimate for how long each deliverable will require. A number of factors went into this estimate, two of the main factors being current staffing capacity and expertise and state land use requirements which we will hear about more. We also received many comments for what a broader Title XI review can include, and these ideas have been shared with Parks and BDS in anticipation of such a review. We also received comments about adequate funding for this work. And while resolutions do not appropriate funding, this resolution does direct the three bureaus to develop clear budget proposals for council consideration so they may accomplish this work. I want to personally thank all of the Portlanders who took time, especially over the holidays, to provide comment on this resolution. These comments are invaluable. These comments and council's direction have carried forward an urgency and a momentum that bureaus are operating with. Bureau staff have shifted workloads. They have reviewed consultants currently on contract to expedite the work. They have consulted with the city attorney's office to prepare defensible changes to Title 11. In short, they are working together to complete this work with limited staffing and funding, but immense public support. Turning to the resolution language before you, the resolution serves as a work plan to align BDS, BPS, and Parks to prioritize staff time and budget in these focus areas to strengthen Title 11. BDS, BPS, and Parks shall immediately prepare first prepare a proposal to address the exemption of regulations for certain commercial and industrial zones. They will report back with a proposal and an analysis no later than July 7th, 2020, if the legal review and analysis allows them to do so. BPS will share more details about why the city must do this analysis again in a state law and Joe Zender from BPS is here to explain the process. Second BDS and Parks shall return to council with a proposal addressing the critical tree size threshold no later than July 7, 2020. Again if the legal review and analysis We will hear more why. And lastly, BDS and Parks, led by the City Forester, shall bring a scope of a Title 11 review to council no later than December of this year. I will turn it over to Emily Sandy with the Bureau of Development Services, so she can explain BDS's role in achieving the resolution's outcomes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Again, I'm Emily Sandee with the Bureau of Development Services. First, I'd really like to thank Sam Diaz for all his hard work communicating and engaging with the stakeholders in the Commissioner's offices and the bureaus during the last few weeks, especially over the holiday season. I'd like to give a brief recap on how Title 11, the Tree Code, is administered and amended. That will hopefully provide some context for the roles that are defined in the resolution that's before you. Title 11 assigns administration of certain portions of the title to either the Bureau of Development Services or the City Forester who is a part of Portland Parks and Recreation. Simplified, you can think of Title XI as parceled out into regulations that apply in development situations and those that apply in non-development situations. And similarly, they are differentiated by trees that are located on private property and trees that aren't located on private property, which would include our street trees and trees that are on city owned or managed sites. Title 11 gives responsibility to the Bureau of Development Services for administering regulations for private trees in development situations. The city forester is responsible for administering everything else. There's a couple nuances, but that's it in a simple summary. As far as amending Title 11, responsibility for coordinating amendments is given to the bureau that is responsible for administering the portion of the code in question in coordination with other bureaus. Verbatim, what Title 11 says is substantive amendments to this title or amendments necessary to ensure conformance with other city titles may be prepared by any bureau. But will be coordinated by the bureau charged with those responsibilities in the title. In consultation with the bureaus of planning and sustainability, parks and recreation, development services, environmental services, transportation and water. Procedurally, proposals for amendments related to trees and development situations are heard by both the Planning and Sustainability Commission and the Urban Forestry Commission, who in turn make recommendations to city council. Amendments related to trees and non-development situations are heard only by the Urban Forestry Commission, who then makes a recommendation to city council. Given the rules laid out in Title 11, BDS will lead the first two projects described in the resolution due to their applicability to regulations for private trees and development situations. This will include strong coordination with all bureaus, particularly those at the table with me today. We will be relying heavily on the expertise of our colleagues in BPS and PPNR to conduct an analysis of the impact on industrial lands that will inform us on how to proceed with the recommendations. from the PSC and the UFC to remove the exemption for tree preservation regulations for private trees in development situations in certain industrial and commercial zones. BPS will give additional information on that analysis in a few moments. Let's see here. BDS will also lead the second project which deals with re-examining the regulations for tree preservation of private trees and development situations that were passed in 2016 and as the mayor's mayor mentioned whose sunset date was recently extended to the end of 2024. This will include evaluating the UFC recommendation to reduce a critical tree size threshold in those regulations from 36 inches to 20 inches. It will also include a potentially examining whether an exemption from tree density regulations in those same industrial and commercial zones can be removed. They currently apply to tree density regulations which can be described as a combination of tree planting and tree preservation regulations. Those latter two items were put forth by the UFC and PSC respectively. That project may also include ancillary changes to the regulations for tree preservation. This project will begin in the very near term. I want to note that the resolution directs BDS and the other bureaus to prepare a budget, scope and budget request in the spring bump. We're not waiting for that to begin work. We're focusing on getting through this resolution right now and then immediately we will start work on that regardless of the outcome of that process. Finally, the third project is a scoping project for a broader Title XI review. This will be done in conjunction primarily with the City Forester and she will describe more about that later. I want to emphasize BDS has heard from the mayor and the rest of the council and the community about the urgency of proceeding with these projects in a very, very timely manner. And BDS enjoys positive working relationships with all of our bureau partners, we like to think, but especially with the City Forester and BPS. And we look forward to working with them as well as all of our stakeholders in moving these projects forward. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. This is Joe Zender with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I'm just going to briefly give you some information on the analysis that we have to do to be able to move forward with code changes like this to meet the state requirements in the case of some of these, and also the timing of what the, role that the Planning and Sustainability Commission is. As Emily said, so when tree regulations are in a development situation, triggered by new development on the site, those have to go to the Planning and Sustainability Commission for a recommendation. You have three that are in this list. All three of those, some aspect of them falls into that. First, the exemption for tree preservation for industrial and commercial lands. That's the first one up that we're supposed to get back to city council with most quickly. Um, focusing and our main focus has been on how what's needed to analyze that and defend it in the state land use system for industrial land. Industrial land and prime industrial land is a goal-line state planning goal protected resource. So all that really means, it means that we can absolutely remove this exemption. But we have to make findings on the impact new regulation on the ability to have land and development sites that are reasonably developed to meet our comprehensive plan growth goals. We tell the state that we're going to grow by 147,000 jobs by 2035, and we demonstrate we have the land ready that could possibly do that. When you make a change to a code, you have to go in and see, does it affect the developability of land? Does it reduce the ability to meet that job target? And if it does, again, it doesn't mean you can't do it. It means that you need to identify how you're going to mitigate for that impact. So in the case here of industrial lands and trees, to the extent that we're preserving 36-inch and larger trees and the economic cost of that is going to reduce the developability of land, we could initially find that indeed the industrial development could absorb that cost. So then there's not a problem. We could find that There is a problem, but we could mitigate that by creating tree resources off-site or some other way. We could invest in brownfields. There's mitigations that could increase the developability of the land and help overcome the impact of the new regulation. That's all that we have. We have to figure all of that out before city council can vote on this change and have that vote be legally defensible in the state land use process. This very issue of trees and this kind of impact on industrial land was the core issue in the North Reach River Plan case, which ended up in appeal at the state remand, and today we still don't have a North Reach River Plan. So we want to make, and actually the state standards on evidence... And in the record for these cases has gone up since that time. So it's a pretty high standard that we have to meet right now. We want to nail it, win on appeal. We fully expect this to or it may or may not be appealed, but if it is, we want to win. So there's a certain amount of time and analysis that needs to go in defensively to do that. We have to, so I think I've explained that. At the same time, and that's, it's a lower standard or a different standard for the commercial land because it's not a protected state resource. Then what we would just want to be able to do is answer the questions we'd expect from you all and expect from the PSC, which is what's the impact on the cost of development? Like that's probably the question we'd get at because this will be applying to commercial lands in the central city and all of our centers and corridors. Because of the value of that development... economically, it's probably very likely that it'll be able to absorb this additional cost so it wouldn't be an issue. So we see the commercial piece of this differently than the industrial. The industrial is more complicated initially just because it's a state resource. The 20-inch caliber regulation, which we're also supposed to be reporting on by December, just increases the number of trees. And the tree density requirements adds a requirement for additional plantings on industrial land that isn't there today. In the analysis we're scoping and preparing to undertake right now, we would do the analysis and try to get back to City Council as quickly as we could with what we're finding, focusing on removing of the exemption first. We've already been in contact with the Bureau of Environmental Services about how to get this contracted quickly using already on-call contractors and started to internally draft up ideas and outline for the scope so we can get rolling quickly. Just a clarification, the tree circumference or diameter is also coming back in July now rather than December, because we're going to do the analysis together. Well, no, to have the chance even to be here in December, Commissioner, we need to do all of this analysis together. For us to be able to get here in July, we are filing a commission. We're filing our documents for commission in April. So that's a very short window. an easy to meet window in December, more difficult in July. However, we're confident that the analysis will be underway and we'll be able to report back thoroughly about where we're landing at least. If not, and if we find de minimis impact or mitigatable impact, we'll be back with code. Yeah. Thanks, General. Yeah. Good afternoon, Council. I'm Jen Cairo, the City Forester. Portland Parks and Recreation Urban Forestry is the city's tree and forest infrastructure manager. As the Bureau of Transportation is to roads and traffic or the Bureau of Environmental Services is to wastewater, Parks is to trees and the urban forest. Our responsibilities include around the clock tree emergency response, tree care and maintenance, tree planting and forest expansion and equity, and education and community engagement. For example, the Urban Forestry Commission. Parks also conducts forest and other analyses to inform plans and policy decisions like city code. Parks, Urban Forestry is the entity primarily responsible for implementation of the Tree Code. We're therefore integral to all three projects and will work closely on them. Parks, Urban Forestry will lead the third project, Overall Tree Code Review and Improvements. This is more comprehensive than the property development situations that are the focus of the first two projects. Parks identified the need for Title XI resources during the code's first year of implementation, 2015. This was captured in 2016 in our initial evaluation of Title XI outcomes and the report of the Tree Code Implementation Oversight Committee created by then Parks Commissioner Fritz. Also, the City Auditor's Tree Code Review of 2017. For example, each year, 2,000 trees required by permits, often to replace those that have been cut down, aren't planted for want of code compliance resources. This is a lot of trees. Resources also have not been available for tree code amendments or other policy needs, such as updating the City's Urban Forest Management Plan. Therefore, in the 2020 spring bump, parks will request one ongoing forest analysis and policy position, This person, our Emily Sandy, so to speak, will lead the third project overall Title 11 improvements, including developing a brief high-level scope of work for council by December 2020. That position will also lead work on other ongoing forest management needs, including updating, evaluating, and performance reporting for the city's urban forest management plan. This is required by city code to be updated every 10 years and is now six years overdue. For example, the current urban forest management plan has little or no mention of Portland's environmental justice or climate crisis challenges. This person will also review and contribute improvements to plans, specifications, and policies developed by city bureaus for their forest infrastructure content and impacts. For just a few illustrations, Streets 2035, led by the Bureau of Transportation, the Residential Infill Project and the Climate Action Plan, led by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, the Stormwater Manual, led by the Bureau of Environmental Services, the Develop Parks and Natural Areas Level of Service Plan and Park Master Plans, led by Parks. Finally, this position will also lead development, evaluation, revision, and help plan the implementation of forest management policies, protocols, and specifications. For example, street tree planting specifications, tree procurement standards, and emergency response protocols. Funding and creating this position is essential in order for parks to meet today's council directives and to manage, preserve, and improve the city's forest infrastructure. Parks Urban Forestry is already working as much as possible on amendments. Other needed work has been sidelined to free up at least some time from existing staff expertise. This includes tracking amendment ideas from all sources and creating certain simpler amendments which council approved such as changes to the use of the tree planting and preservation fund in 2018. We'll continue to do as much as feasible while fulfilling our other obligations. Finally, I'd like to thank Council for supporting and elevating the city's forest infrastructure. We all literally can't live without trees. Given the notable inequity in tree services to all Portlanders and the climate crisis, the need is now urgent. We're eager to bring Council improvements for your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Gator, you did it. Are we going to be moving on to public testimony now? We are, unless you had any questions for the panel. I just want to thank you for this work on this item. I know that you had to hustle, and it wasn't expected. I understand the high volume of work that's crossing our dais and that we're then sending out to the bureaus, and I don't think that... there was any deliberate attempt to not go back and do the work that we committed to doing to the public after Title 11 was created. But it wasn't done, and I'm glad that we caught that, and I'm really happy that we're going to do it now. Thank you. Very good. I want to thank you all as well. That was an excellent presentation. For people listening who are not here today to provide testimony, I just want to make a quick announcement. We will accept written testimony until 5 p.m. on Friday on this issue. It's a first reading. It's the resolution. That's correct. I stand corrected. Sorry. Sam or did you have something else in mind? Depending on public testimony, you know, want to give you the opportunity to reflect back. We did reserve February 6th at 3.30 p.m. time certain in case, you know, you hear something, would like to give us additional direction if there are any critical updates to the resolution that you hear that may not have been thought of. But just wanted to respect your public testimony and also your position. We're sitting and wanting to hear public testimony to get feedback. I know everybody's just seen it. It was the changes are based on the feedback we've had so far. And so I, for one, do not want to delay moving forward if we can. Okay. I don't have a strong feeling either way, but I do want to just thank community advocates and advocates. activists for pushing us on this. I neglected to say that sooner. I want to thank Bob Salinger from Audubon for coming to my office and patiently explaining the entire history of Title 11 and also to Joe and our urban forester for giving me your expertise and input. I just want to highlight this as an excellent example of how we really need community to hold us accountable for promises that we've made and I appreciate you. Very good. Public testimony. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? We have 15. Great. Three minutes each. Name for the record, please. The first three, please, coming up are Charles Bridgetrain Johnson, Edith Gillis, and Bruce Nelson. Edith, this is a threefer for you today. I love you. We love you. Thanks for being here. Do you want to start? It looks like you're ready to go. My name is Edith Gillis, and I want to say that my maternal grandfather, I was told, developed most of Seattle, was a multimillionaire, and he made more money than his competitors because he saved and protected the trees. He designed developments. roads, buildings, homes to amplify the benefits of trees. And those are the neighborhoods that are bringing the most money to the Seattle city coffers. Trees bring value. And I am concerned that delays in protecting our public life, health and safety, and prolonging the risk and endangering partners by neglecting our fiscal responsibility for city resources and protecting our trees is losing credibility, cooperation, and teamwork that we need to have with the citizens. I am concerned that this is an emergency. we need to protect the trees and the appearance of impropriety and unequal enforcement. We We give less than 48 hours or only 48 hours with no due process for people who are losing all their belongings and their life and safety in being swept, and yet we're allowing months or years for wealthy people to increase their profits. And it gives the appearance of impropriety that can hurt you, Ted, because it looks as if to some people, that you are delaying the time in which someone could get, before someone gets fined for logging trees like Schnitzer at Wapato. so that he would then give you bigger monies for your campaign. You don't want to have that appearance of impropriety, so I would like us to speed up this process and be aware that we need to protect the trees. I've worn different hats and had different careers in my life, and one of them is a field biologist and a naturalist and a science teacher. And we need to realize that we can't, we have to magnify and increase the whole volume quantity and quality of not only the tree coverage but also the biodiversity because at any time we could lose all of our Dutch elm or lose all of our western cedar or lose a wide group of our trees. These trees are not going to just live like a Douglas fir is not to live alone. A Douglas fir is to be in a community of other trees. It cannot live safely alone. They have to exchange nutrients and information to protect each other from infestation of pests or diseases. So we need to amplify the amount of trees we have and... and not just have over a bigger amount. We need to speed up that. It's an emergency. And we need to have a greater quality of tree protection and education of the public, as well as having trees on roofs, on eaves, and on walls. Edith, I'm going to give you a bad fight analogy. And maybe I'm just in a punchy mood today. It's been a long day. But I don't care if I get the first punch in. I want to make sure I get the last punch in. And so the balancing act that we've been doing here is being expedient, being fast, meeting the needs that we've heard from people who gave, I thought, very compelling and eloquent testimony. But I do not want to ignore what legal counsel has been telling us in terms of making sure that when we do this, I want it to stick. And to give you a clear example, I supported all the work that the city council did. Commissioner Fritz was here back in 2015 and 16 when they passed the fossil fuel infrastructure ordinance. But the problem was it got remanded. And now we basically had to wait three and a half years. You have a fiscal responsibility to protect us from lawsuits that are expensive and taking staff time away from other things. I get that. Yeah, I know you do. And there's a balancing act that has to happen here. I believe that this resolution, the substitute resolution, is a very good balancing act that moves this as quickly as we can. And I think we heard that from the staff members who testified. But I also believe that we are strongly protected from a legal perspective. So that's the work that we're trying to do here today. And I appreciate your comments now, and I appreciate your comments earlier today. Thank you. Good afternoon, Commissioner. Charles Bridge, Crain Johnson, for the record. And I think that I heard one of the staffers say that they had reserved time on Thursday, the 6th of February, a time certain maybe, but I'm not sure that's clear. If they have, I hope that you'll avail yourselves of that opportunity, even if after the close of public testimony, hopefully we'll have a grand slam near the end, Bob Salinger is in the House from Audubon. Even if you approve the resolution, I think... your constituents want to be kept up to date and by having a if it does come back up as a time certain on a future agenda in february or the six or whenever it'd be a great time for you to have some of those great tableau dashboards you talk about once upon a time the way the city's values were through i.t if you went to www.portlandoregon.gov smart it just took you to smart parking and the days of worshipping cars are over. So now when you go to www.portlandoregon.gov it talks to you about the whole Smart Cities initiative. And rather than worrying about the UFC and the DPS and all that, among the things that would be great for you to accomplish by the 6th of February or sooner is that when we went to portlandoregon.gov slash trees, It told us how much great progress we're making on saving trees, trees everywhere, helping Jordan Schnitzer save the trees up at Bybee Lake slash Wapato, making sure Heritage Trees program gets expanded, all the things we need to do to preserve the urban canopy. So if there's one action item that can be accomplished soon, it'd be nice to have PortlandOregon.gov slash trees help us better interface with this city about tree protection and urban canopy. I'm also curious to hear the other public testimony, not just Bob Sounder, but especially that, so that you'll be well informed and you can either pass this resolution unanimously today or get a second reading on it, whatever the process is from the city attorney. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Bruce Nelson. I'm a member of the Urban Forestry Commission and also on the policy committee for the Urban Forestry Commission. I think I'm going to go a little bit off script, but hopefully it will be appropriate. At this particular time, I think we need to think about joy in our lives. Trees bring joy to all of us, I hope, at different times and in different places. And the work you're doing on the tree code will, can, should bring joy to the city of Portland for many years to come. When a tree is cut down, the City of Portland loses the benefit it gives for 20, 30, maybe 50 years before a tree gets to the size of the one that was removed. So the work you're doing is important, and although I would like it to go faster, it happens. Let's get it done right. Specific to that, I want to make sure that the change on 1150.040 specifically deals with density. The clauses in the tree code that talk about density because we can't deal with just preservation if we exclude dealing with density, then that's a loophole that's going to allow the removal of trees. The Urban Forestry Commission and the Policy Committee both hoped that this would proceed faster than it is, but I understand the reasoning for that. Another thing I'm sure you're very aware of, these zones that we're talking about, many of those are adjacent to neighborhoods that have low canopy. Many of these trees that we're talking about are specifically in East County, where there is going to be a whole lot of development going on. You're dealing with a tree code section that specifically talks about development. You're dealing with East County. You're dealing with areas where... has not shared the riches of the city. So I appreciate the work you're doing on this. I appreciate the work that staff will be doing on it. I wish it was all happening faster, but, yeah, let's get it right. Let's make sure the courts don't mess things up. So thank you very much and a little joy to all of you. Commissioner Nelson, thank you very much for your testimony. I had not spotted that the language in the two different resolves was somewhat different, but the intent of addressing the exemption from regulations in the IH, IG1, EX, and CX zones includes the regulations on density as well as on preservation. Thank you. So that's... I'll just clarify that on the record, but that wasn't intended to not address preservation. Thank you for bringing that up. I mean, density. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please, Carla. Bob Bernstein, Deanna Mueller-Crispin, and Catherine Mouchel. Thank you for being here. Would you like to start, please? Sure. Thank you. I'm Bob Bernstein, 50-year resident of southeast Portland. We are in a drought or very close to a drought. You know, it's drizzling today, but even if you add part of September's heavy rainfall onto the water year, we're only at 66%. Two summers ago, we had 30 or 31 days above 90. Last summer was still a warm summer because of high overnight lows. Smaller trees, the mitigation-type trees, are more susceptible to drought. It makes keeping our mature canopy more and more important. I'd like to see some study as to how well the survival is going for those mitigation saplings that are planted. I know that Christmas tree farmers have noted losses and foresters. Reforestation efforts have not been as good due to drought situations. Let's see. When you speak to stakeholders, I get questions. I get worried. I've been to enough forestry board meetings to see how if you control the process and the appointments of stakeholders, you control the outcome. And that concerns me. It concerns me that you have some ties to the real estate interest in Portland. So I'm hoping that whatever stakeholder involvement, and I realize I have the opportunity here, as we all do, to speak to you. Are you speaking to me specifically? Yes, I'm looking at you. I'm not a real estate developer. Your campaign office is being donated by whom? I get donations from virtually every industrial code. Yes, and I would feel much better if, and this is my time, I would feel much better if your campaign was publicly financed. That's my point. That's a difference of opinion, and you're entitled to that opinion. It certainly is. Okay. Anything else I would defer to Audubon's recommendations about moving this faster, as fast as possible. I've seen the city turn on a dime when it wanted to. I saw, you know, was it Goodman got an okay for going up another 100 feet on the development? All he had to do was meet with Planning and Sustainability Bureau. You know, so I think the city can really move if they want to. I understand defensibility. And I also know that in terms of industrial lands, nobody mentioned anything when ballparks were talked about using industrial lands. So that to me is a... We haven't approved that. And I would like to thank Amanda Fritz for her help with the bull run issue. I was involved in that in the 80s. So thanks. Yeah, that was great. Good afternoon. It was. Hi, I'm Deanna Mueller-Crispin. Live at 1221 Southwest 10th Avenue in Portland. I'm here today as a member of the Downtown Neighborhood Association Land Use and Transportation Committee and I'm representing the DNA's position today. The Downtown Neighborhood Association strongly supports the Mayor's resolution that the Bureau of Development Services, in cooperation with the other bureaus and so forth, establish a stakeholder engagement process to extend and evaluate Ordinance 187675. Obviously, we haven't had a chance to look at the most recent version, but it sounds like it's probably an improvement, or at least cross fingers. The Downtown Neighborhood Association would request to be notified when the stakeholder group or groups, whatever they may be, is being established. We'd very much like to be included in the process. Specifically, we approve recommendations from Planning and Sustainability Commission and Urban Forestry Commission to evaluate the effects of extending Title XI requirements regarding preservation of certain trees in development situations. excluding some zoning that is especially CX from tree preservation requirements and reducing the tree size threshold to cover smaller trees which we support. As others have already mentioned, every bit of greenery contributes to the residents physical and emotional health especially in the downtown area that we represent, most of which is zoned CX. And this is despite the 15,000 plus people who live here and of course the thousands of employees coming here daily and the large amount of development going on downtown. So we hope that these things will be taken into good consideration in the process. And thank you for your consideration. Thank you, we appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon Mayor and Commissioner Udailey and Commissioner Fritz. I'm Catherine Mushell and I live in Southeast Portland and I am speaking on behalf of Trees for Life Oregon. Let me start by taking a minute to acknowledge Commissioner Fish's service. So we are here at this difficult moment for the city and for you because the city urgently needs your leadership to defend the urban forest. And thank you very much for taking it so seriously over the holiday break. With political parties at an impasse and the earth rapidly calling in its debts, we are here to ask you as city leaders to revise the year draft timeline, which you have done. We are asking you to follow the lead of the PCEF organizers to see the city itself as the entity that must address funding and act for the common good in the face of federal inaction and obfuscation. We need you to act now because for so many people, there will be no other better, greener, or cleaner space in which to make a life than the city itself. We are asking you that you shorten your draft timeline in four ways and thank you for doing it. We want the code overhauled before the end of the year. Then we want, a vote on three discrete code changes and I understand the legal issues that were raised here today. We want a vote on reducing inch for inch in lieu fees from city 36 inches to 20 inches because those 20 inch trees are going to be the trees of the future. And we want to vote on rescinding the exemption for mitigation fees and on revising tree density standards in commercial and industrial zones. And we very much appreciate the clarification today and how those zones would be dealt with. We know the federal government is still funding transportation infrastructure, especially something like the Division Street project. We hope for designs comparable to our central city transit mall with its street tree line streets. Think of the city without that transit mall. but we are also aware that fostering everyone's health and well-being by growing and maintaining green infrastructure block by block and lot by lot is up to us. It is up to you as our city leaders. We need you to stand with us and make the urban forest central to your decisions going forward in every bureau. Please revise the timelines, and we know you have done so with the sense of urgency that everyone in the city deserves. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you. Next three, please, Carla. The next four would like to come up together. That's fine. It's Kaya Grumbles, Tessa Norris, Florence Oakley, and Tasia Graff. And if somebody just wants to grab a chair from the corner there, you can slide it on up. Anywhere is fine. That's great. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here. And the microphones slide around, so you can share them however it works. My name is Kaya Grumbles. My name is Tessa Norris, and we wrote this with a fellow member, Tyler Yancey. We are here on behalf of Portland Youth Climate Council, otherwise known as PYCC. We would like to begin with a quote from one of our colleagues, Lila McLowry. A member of PYCC said the following at our last meeting regarding decision-making during this climate crisis. Quote, In a climate emergency, the environment must be valued over the economy. We have to act now to slow the Earth's climate crisis. This might mean that the economy suffers, but we have no other choice. If the economy has to suffer to save the entire planet, then we have to deal with that." This is one of the many reasons that PYCC supports removing the exemption status for industrial and commercial lands and commercial lands developers in the Portland Tree Code. We have to put the climate first. We would like to thank you for giving us the opportunity to make comments on the Portland Tree Code's draft resolution. We truly appreciate the changes that have already been made to the resolution and would like to follow up with some additional recommendations. Our recommendations are as follows. Number one, PYCC would like to address the timeline that City Council has given for Tree Code. The city has set March 31st, 2020 to begin looking at removing industrial and commercial exemption from the Portland Tree Code. We will reluctantly accept this date. However, it is crucial that a vote on removing the exemption for industrial and commercial land developers should take place no later than June 8th, 2020. We also urge, number two, we also urge the city to provide more outreach to stakeholders directly impacted by the tree code. This is directed to the stakeholders whose health and well-being is most impacted by the lack of trees in their lives. In the current resolution, it is stated that the urban tree canopy requires protection and management for the health and safety of all people living in or visiting Portland. We want the city to provide a healthy atmosphere for all residents, and equal access to tree coverage is a crucial element that is needed in order to reduce heat islands and give equal access to a healthy and comfortable environment. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Tasia Graff. And my name is Florence Oakley, and we are also here on behalf of Portland Youth Climate Council, or PYCC. We have three more recommendations for the draft of the Portland Tree Code resolution to add to our list. They are as follows. First, PYCC would like the Council to vote on reducing critical tree size to 20 inches in diameter by September 1, 2020. We believe this to be crucial. Waiting an entire year to address this is not acceptable or wise. The City's revised resolution dates for this are January and July of 2021. Although we don't want these trees cut at all, the higher mitigation fees would help pay for new trees which sequester carbon, increase cooling effects, and help reduce the number of heat islands in the city of Portland. For our next recommendation, we would like to revisit an issue PYCC brought up before. Until the industrial and commercial exemptions are voted on, PYCC would like a moratorium to ban industrial and commercial developers on cutting down more trees. This is especially relevant considering we are now acting during a climate emergency. Finally, we felt the need to add another whereas clause into the resolution to highlight the inequity of the Portland tree canopy. It goes as follows. Whereas all people living in or visiting Portland do not have equal access to the protection and benefits of the urban tree canopy, which impacts their ability to breathe healthy air, exercise, stay cool, and pursue happiness. These people include children, houseless, elderly, and those living in low-income areas. Be it further resolved that the city takes specific steps to meet with the most impacted communities in decisions made regarding tree preservation. We again would like to thank you for your time and this opportunity. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you all for your time. Commissioner Fritz. Could you give me that language, please, because I like the whereas clause. If the meeting of stakeholders comes in the next... process. So I think we've addressed we're actually going to do the size of the tree quicker than you asked for so I'm sure you're okay on that. The reason we told that the Mayor chose July rather than June for coming back to Council is because we're busy with the budget in June and so we want to make sure that we have time and headspace to be able to, so it's July rather than June, I hope that's okay. If you could get me that language I'll move that as an amendment when we're done with the testimony. Thank you. Commissioner Daly. I would just like to say, as much as I love the idea of a moratorium, I did pursue that possibility and was told it's just simply not legally defensible, unfortunately. But I feel you on that. Thanks for being here again. We appreciate it. Thank you. Oh, and that certainly does not preclude you from letting the property owners and developers and companies that are pulling permits to take down trees know how you feel about that. And I'm sorry I can't direct you to an easy place to get that information, but it is public record, and those permit requests go through BDS. So if you want to talk to my office, I think maybe we can find out a better... a more direct route to that information. Thank you. Next three please, Carla. Next three are Jan Zuckerman, Albert Kaufman, and Bob Sollinger. Good afternoon and welcome. Would you like to start please? Sure. Hi. I've changed my testimony many times based on what I've heard and listening to the youth also, but I'd like to thank you for the opportunity to speak. And I really want to thank the Portland Youth Climate Council for spending all year pushing this forward and one of their mentors. Sadly, I have to say time is not on our side. Our summers are getting hotter in Portland. It is rated one of the worst urban islands in the United States. We know that our western red cedars are dying. We've heard from, about that with the drought. And there's a growing disparity between tree canopy and higher income and lower income neighborhoods in Portland. Trees are our life force. They perform functions that are vital to our very survival, and yet we treat them like a commodity or a nuisance when they get in our way. In our ways to develop and make money, we have forgotten our connection to the natural world, and this has poisoned our souls and our minds in how we treat one another. It only takes a short walk in the woods to remind me that trees have intrinsic value separate from what I want and what I need. As a teacher, I have spent over 30 years connecting children with nature because I believe that when we develop a love for our natural world, our trees, we naturally take care of each other better because we understand that there's something greater than ourselves. It's not radical to expect industry and commercial landholders to pay for permits to remove trees when we are expected to do the same. but we must radically change the way we interact with trees. Understandably, there must be analysis and legal review to remove the exemptions, but waiting until July, right after the holiday. I understand about the budget now, and I appreciate that. A decision after the holiday for a first proposal without a vote allows for many more trees to be cut down. And it is a big concern. And it's also difficult for youth to go find the developers and to try to stop them or talk to them. We have reached out to Schnitzer and we've gotten no reply. So if you can help us lead the way with that, that would be great. But we feel like it isn't the youth's job to do that. You know, if this chamber were burning down right now, or on fire, we wouldn't wait to put it out while we investigate how it started or what it would cost to put it out. We would just put it out first. It's because of this that I do agree with the youth that there needs to be some kind of hold while this decision is being made to stop industrial developers from removing more trees in this critical time. In regards to the reduction of critical tree size from 36 to 20, it's mind-boggling to to me that analysis and legal review needs to take a year and a half to complete without a day for the vote. Isn't protecting trees part of building our resilience to climate change? Excuse me, we changed that. That's now coming back in July. Thank you very much for your testimony. And just one other thing, I just wanted to say that, yeah, Mayor Wheeler, you said you needed to double down, that we needed to double down in your proposal. And I think that we have to do that by getting to this sooner rather than later. And I really appreciate the work you're doing on this. Thank you. Thanks for being here again. Appreciate it. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Udeli. Thanks for having us testify today. First, I just want to offer my condolences on Commissioner Fish. We recognize this is a really painful time in City Hall and for the community at large, and also that it adds a lot of challenge to the workload as well. We really appreciate the work that's gone into this resolution. You've been working hard on it and we just read it in this hearing, but from my perspective it is responsive to the community's concerns that have been raised. And we really appreciate your doing that. The timelines have been expedited significantly. And I think at this point from Audubon's perspective, we consider this a reasonable approach and really appreciate all the energy that's gone into it. We do have two technical suggestions if you can make them vote. We would definitely encourage you to finalize this today regardless. We feel like it's time to move forward and get the ball rolling in terms of doing the work. But the two technical issues that we would raise are one, you've already heard on the industrial and commercial lands, the exemptions are both on preservation and density. And so it's important to make sure that both of those exemptions are addressed. The second is just a clarification. Your intent is pretty clear here. But when you say lowering the critical threshold from 36 to 20 inches, what you're talking about specifically there is inch-for-inch mitigation. You're lowering the threshold for inch-for-inch mitigation from 36 to 20 inches. And that's in the second where it would be resolved. Again, I think it says what you mean to say, but those two things would make it clearer. Lastly, I would just note that I appreciate Joe Zender's testimony about Goal 9 in industrial lands, but I just want to remind folks that The exemptions were put in place in 2011 pending doing the comprehensive plan and the economic opportunities analysis which were completed in 2015 and 2016. So in theory, the city has addressed those land issues through that process and should be ready to move forward. So I understand they need to look back and look at that and make sure that everything's aligned, but That should have been taken care of through that process. That was the whole reason for those exemptions and the delay. So I hope that is true. I would note that we tend to get hung up on goal nine whenever there's an environmental issue in play. But we don't tend to get hung up on it that much when we're transforming industrial land for other purposes at the behest of industry. We don't tend to have that conversation at all. I tend to be the only one that comes to council and raises the issue. So it's when there's natural resource protections that are in play that we suddenly start to really worry about whether we have enough industrial land. We need to be more comprehensive in thinking about that because we use up that capacity and then don't have enough space to protect our environment. So thank you again for your work on this. We support passage of it today. Bob, are you referring to the bottom, the page two of three? So there's the now, therefore it be resolved, then be it further resolved, then be it further. Is it the third one you're referring to? So it starts concurrently with the first proposal? Yes, concurrently with the first proposal. So if you go down to reduction of the critical tree size threshold from 36 to 20 inches, Just to clarify, what you're trying to say is reduction of the critical tree size threshold for inch for inch mitigation from 36 to 20 inches. So, Mayor, I've got several amendments. Very good. You've got that covered. Okay. Commissioner Daly. Bob, I'm going to attempt to explain why I think we can't immediately move forward with that analysis that was done in 2016. I'm going to look at Joe for a nod or a shake. This is my understanding. Because we can't dip below, down below that minimum level of industrial inventory, and if we consider removing the exemption as a constraint, which I think it's worth arguing that it's not, but that's how we're treating it right now, we now have to determine if this constraint would cause that dip. And that hasn't been done. That's what we have to do. I agree with both parts of what you said, especially the first part, which I don't think it should be treated as a constraint. I think there's a very strong legal argument for not. But the second part, though, I do agree we need to loop back and look at that. But again, the city was supposed to take care of that through that process. So I hope that capacity that was supposedly created through that process still is there. If it's not, it's because we've converted industrial land and lost that capacity to do environmental work. No arguments from me. Just to clarify, you think we should vote on this today? I would urge you to vote on it today. Again just speaking just for Audubon, I feel like you have been responsive. I think the timelines are close enough and I think it will be good to move it forward. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. And I am speaking for myself, but I guess also somebody is speaking for the trees. We're speaking for the trees. I think I'm pretty much with everybody on voting on this today. Reducing the timelines certainly is what I'm hearing from all of my peers who care about trees, who aren't here today, and who have already submitted testimony. Something, I mean, Australia is definitely coming to my mind right now, and the incredible... disparity between what's actually happening there on the ground and what leadership is doing. I think there's a lot more that we can be doing beyond just the tree code as a city council, as a city. I think there's commentary that can be coming from the city to... new residents about trees and how important they are to us. I think there's things like the curbsider. There's all sorts of information that comes from the city council that could come out via Nextdoor and other ways that could be guiding poor lenders to be more aware of the value of trees. I've been working on the leaf blower issue, and you guys all... decided to make an amendment and have the city stop using gas-powered leaf blowers. Well, before that even came before you, a lot of us have been working in the city to, around the city, to try to educate our fellow Portlanders about the issue. And I think from the time I started pushing on that issue, which was about four years ago until now, I wake up in the morning and I wake up more frequently not hearing gas-powered leaf blowers anymore. And it's partly my work and other citizens around town, but it's also partly a wave that's happening. And I think that the city can really help in this case, not just by working on Title 11, but also sending word out to the city and its residents that trees are important. So... I think this is all beautiful. I'm excited to work within the system and have things actually move at the pace of a tree growing and the Title XI is moving forward. So, you know, I'm not super excited by that pace, but I do think there's other things that the city could be doing as well to try to get the word out to people. beyond just doing this work. So I would appreciate hearing your messages. You can all dress up as Loraxes and talk about that because obviously this type of effort takes a little bit longer. Thank you very much. Thanks, Albert. Maybe that's something the youth would work with you on, making that video. Oh, I thought you meant the Lorax costumes. Thanks a lot. I want to sympathize with you, Albert. We are definitely moving at different geological speeds inside City Hall and outside. Right, and the climate is unfortunately working at its speed. So let's catch up. Thank you. Next three please, Carla. are Don Smallman, Ted Labey, and a gentleman who wanted to speak that didn't get to sign up. From the Youth Council? Come on up. There was a young man from the Youth Council who wanted to speak? Do you still want to speak? I don't have his name. You don't want to speak? Okay. All right. Okay, thanks Simon. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Dawn Smallman. Thank you very much for allowing public testimony today and I'm really appreciative of you taking feedback from the community and moving the dates forward and responsiveness to that feedback that you got. I threw half my notes out when I walked in the door and saw the revised resolution and that felt really good to be able to know that you're being so responsive over the holiday and all that. I appreciate it. I would like to echo the Portland Youth Climate Council's suggestions about the additional equity language. I was really glad to see that some equity language was put into the most recent draft. I think that's very important. I would like to also urge you to start using the phrase best available science in your language. Best available science should be used in every single environmental policy resolution, proposal, comment, that this study puts out because what it does is it obligates you to take the politics out of it. It obligates you to take the donors out of it. It obligates you to take questions about who's donating to whose campaigns or any of those kind of issues that we've heard presented today out of it. Best available science obligates you to be dealing with climate issues and environmental issues the way we all need to deal with them now based on the best available science. So thank you for considering adding that language in today. I think that language is going to become extremely important when we get to the comprehensive Title XI code review and revision. I'd like to urge you to vote today, not in February. I'd like to also urge you to add a voting date in, not just the proposal for people to return back and tell you the plan for removing the exemptions on commercial and industrial and other zone properties, but I'd like to ask you to actually add a date in. I'm doing a quick reading of this. If the date's in there, please let me know I'm wrong. I'd love to hear that. So that's the intent, that when they come back on July 7th, there will be a vote? There will be a vote. Okay, fantastic. I appreciate that. I'm also disappointed to hear that the moratorium is not defensible. I would hate to see this whole thing get tied up in some kind of legal... so I understand you're not putting it in there today, but at some point, maybe in a less critical, smaller resolution, it would be worth testing that legally. I floated that idea. I'm sorry. I'd also like to make a comment and echo a comment about the stakeholders. We often talk about stakeholders, and I think it's really true that if you control the process, you control the outcome. I've been involved for decades plus in these processes with the city as somebody on the citizen side, and I really believe that you can control the process to control the outcome. And a lot of that is who those stakeholders are who sit at the table. When it comes time to say who these stakeholders are, I hope we'll include that equity mission, as a huge part of the stakeholders who get involved. I also want to say that while I was part of a group of people trying to save the largest three redwoods that existed in the city, one of the stakeholders who sat on the Urban Forestry Commission at that time was the actual developer who wanted to cut them down and held the neighborhood hostage to sell the land back at a huge increase in price in order to save the trees. Vic Remmers, that's right, Everett Custom Homes, was the stakeholder who sat on the Urban Forestry Commission at that time. So... We need to advise the Urban Forestry Commission at that time. I see you nodding no. I think that's incorrect. Okay, so I just want to say that when you're choosing the stakeholders, I like the comment that the economy has to take a second seat to the environment right now. And so I think when you're choosing stakeholders and it's going to variably come around to choosing arborists, maybe what we need to be looking for is the arborist voices who are the most conservation-based arborists, not the ones that make the most money from cutting the most of the canopy in our city. Thank you. I appreciate everything you're doing. And I look forward to this vote passing today. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Council, thank you for your service and thanks for finally addressing these outstanding concerns with the Tree Code. I very much appreciate it. I was a little dismayed with the original versions of the resolution that talked about a longer time frame. I also feel like I can live with six months for both issues kind of returning to Council and so I thank you for being responsive to the really huge outpouring of requests around that so that gives me hope that we still have a council that is responsive to the people I just want to pick up on a couple earlier themes and finish today with a historical note I think I I think anytime you have a city attorney tell you you cannot implement a moratorium on tree cutting, you need to kind of push back a little on that. So I would encourage you to take a second look at that. I think the Youth Coalition has made a wonderful suggestion. There's some urgency here. There's gonna be a lot of trees coming down in our industrial commercial lands in the next six months. This is a way, this is a stop gap measure. So please take a second look at that as an option. Bruce earlier talked about trees as joy, and I love that. But I also want to say that trees are not just an amenity. I serve on the Portland Utility Board. We need to start thinking about trees as essential public infrastructure that we make investments in, that the city helps homeowners, property owners manage actively, both in the right-of-way and on city properties. I sort of understand Joe Zender's explanation. I don't understand why it has to take so long, given what Bob spoke to earlier. So I would encourage you to vote on it today. I think you heard public testimony before Christmas around extension of the sunset. That's when I put my comments in. I think there's been ample opportunity for the public to comment. There's going to be more opportunity for the public to be engaged going forward. So I would urge you to vote today. So I want to finish up with a historical perspective. I did this work a couple years ago with the tree historian of Portland, Dave Hedberg, Angie DeSalva, who works for Urban Forestry, and Jim Gerspak before he left for Urban Forestry. We looked back at street tree inventories the city had from 1938-1976 and the most recent work that Angie did. And it's really interesting. It tells an interesting story. When I get impatient about updating the tree code, I go to history because it tells me, OK, sometimes things take a while. But it's very interesting. I'm going to leave this with you. You can look at it later. Basically, it shows that, yes, we have more stocking of trees in the city, now than we ever have before. We have greater diversity of trees, species and families than ever before. But what it shows also is that we're losing large form trees citywide. So increasingly people, when we throw a large or medium form tree, we're planting small trees. And so this, I think, should add urgency to the big look at the tree code and how we're incentivizing tree planting, tree maintenance in the city. I've used my time, so I'm going to leave this with you to look at it just if you're interested in history, tree history. Could you just put your name into the record, please?
 Sorry? Put your name into the record. Oh, I never did that. Ted Labby. I'm with the Urban Green Spaces Institute. Thank you. I live in Portland. Thanks, Ted. Thanks, both of you. Thank you. Carla, is that complete public testimony? That's all signed up. Very good. Commissioner Fritz? I've been compiling amendments that have been requested, and so what I'd like to do is to just run through them all. If anybody wants to pull any of them out, vote on separately, but otherwise we could spare Carla and just vote on them as a package. I do think it's really important for us to do this today to... show that there's urgency to this. We did have hearings before Christmas. We've been talking about this for a long time and we want the staff to get going on bringing something back in July when there'll be more time to do things. So it was my understanding that we weren't going to vote today, although I do not understand why we weren't going to vote today. And I would like to vote. I really want to kind of celebrate this moment in chambers with of the advocates who are here, but we have gotten a request from Commissioner Hardesty to hold off the vote, so I'm very torn. I mean, could we come back next week, given that we have all these amendments? These are just in response to testimony. These people have already come twice, three times. I'm not going to belabor the issue. I just wanted to... make that statement? Yeah. What is the preference of my colleagues? Well, let me make my amendments and then you can say if there's anything that's controversial. The first one is in response to the youth, to add the whereas. Whereas all people living in or visiting Portland do not have equal access to the protection and benefits of the urban tree canopy, which impacts their ability to breathe healthy air, exercise, stay cool and pursue happiness. These people include children, houseless, elderly and those living in low-income areas. I second that. Thank you. The second one is, now be it resolved, that the Bureau of Development Services and Coordination with Important Parks and Recreation and Planning Sustainability shall conduct stakeholder engagement analysis and develop proposals that address tree preservation in development situations based on best available science. I will second that as well and I will also say I kind of, I've grown to kind of hate the term stakeholder. Maybe we could come up with something. Yeah. Not for this, but for this it's fine. Okay. Yes. Second. I share your concern. Yes. The next is, and be it further resolved underneath that, to... say that the bureaus shall connect technical analysis and coordinate legal review to develop analysis that addresses the exemption from preservation and density regulations in the zone specified? Second. The next is the next resolved, be it further resolved that the Bureau shall prepare a proposal including evaluating reduction of critical tree size for inch-for-inch mitigation from 36 inches to 20 inches. Second. Thank you. Then this next one is again in response to the youth in the be it further resolved that It's the second via further resolve down on page three. BDS and Portland Parks and Recreation shall bring a scope for council review no later than December 7th, 2020. The scope shall include specific steps to include the most impacted communities in decisions regarding tree preservation. Second. Second. And then the final one was not heard in testimony, but I realized that we are supposed to say whether resolutions are binding city policy or not binding city policy. So the last amendment is be it further resolved that the directives in this resolution are binding city policy. Second. So could we do this? Could we take a two-minute recess? And I just want to confirm with staff that I believe I can support each of those amendments wholeheartedly. We'll take a three-minute recess, please. Go to the bathroom. Okay. All right, we're back in session. Thank you everyone. Commissioner Fritz, you had a slight rewording of one of your- No, it's fine. It's good. What I said was fine. Okay, good. So it's my understanding the decision is to go. Very good. So with that, Carla, please call the roll on the resolution. As amended. Oh, I'm sorry. We have to put the amendments on the table. All the amendments. Let's put them on as a package. As a package, yeah. So we have a motion. We have a second for the package. Call the roll on the package of amendments, please. Fritz. Thank you, everybody, for your input. This has made it better. Aye. Eubaly. Same. Thank you for all your input. It's just a really great example of how we can all do better work when we work together. Aye. Aye. Wheeler. Good package of amendments. Very thoughtful. Thank you for the testimony. I vote aye. The package of amendments is now on the table to the main motion as amended. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. So I felt really strongly that we should vote today. I really appreciate all the time that you have put in coming back again and again and again on this and didn't want to have to ask you to do it again. The other reason was... Mae'r Cyngor wedi gweithio'n anodd iawn i ddod i'r cyd-destun ar hyn, ac ar y diwrnod lle roeddem yn annog Gweinidog Nick Fish, mae'n rhan o'i hanes yw ei fodwn i eisiau gweld y diwrnod hwn i ddangos bod rhai anghenion a rhai ail-gyntaf wedi dod i'r afael, ac mae gennym ni rywbeth y gallwn i gyd ddylem. Bydd yna cyfleoedd ymhellach i'n cydweithiwr, Gweinidog Hardesty, i ddweud yn fawr ar hynny wrth symud ymlaen, oherwydd rydyn ni'n sefydlu'r a phrosiect sydd am ddod yn ôl i'w wneud am ddewis am ddewis. Felly rwy'n wirioneddol yn hapus bod yn gwneud y penderfyniad hwn. Diolch i chi am eich arweinyddiaeth ar hyn. Diolch i'ch staff, Sam Diaz, Jamal Fox, Kristen Dennis. Mae'n wych gwneud y newidiadau a chyfleu eich cyffrediniaeth. Nid yn unig i wneud hyn yn gyflym fel bosibl, ond i'w wneud yn ddigon llygol fel bosibl i gael ei ddynnu. ac rwy'n credu ein bod ni i gyd yn cytuno â hynny. O ran ein bod am wneud hynny'n fwy cyflym, rwy'n credu mai dyma'r cychwyn cyflym y gallai ei wneud. Rwy'n hafodol am y staff yn y burwau yn ymwneud â nodi a chyflwyno bwy bynnag sy'n angen, a gwneud beth bynnag sy'n angen. Ond yn benodol, Diolch i chi, nawr, am fod yn arweinydd o'r tri burwau, yn arwain eich staff, bod hwn yn bwriad cyngor ac mae hyn yn rhywbeth sydd angen ei wneud. Felly, rwy'n wirioneddol Diolch i Cynthia Castro a Tim Crail ar fy nhermau, i Jamie Duhamel ar y staff ym Mhrifysgol Udaelei, i Mhrifysgol Udaelei, a chymerodd y gwrs i'r gwrs i'r cyfnod o'r cyd-dysgu hwnnw gan ddweud, gadewch i ni ddod i ffwrdd â'r cyfnod a chymerodd i ni fynd i wneud mwy, fwy yn gyflymach, ac wedyn gweithio gyda'ch cydweithwyr i ddod i rywbeth rydych chi'n hyfforddiol â. Felly, rwy'n hoffi hynny iawn. Diolch i'r staff yn y parciau. Rwyf wedi gweithio ar hyn am amser iawn ac mae wedi bod Dydw i ddim yn cofio'r nifer o gilydd rydyn ni wedi rhoi atgyfeirio i ddod yn ôl gyda chyflawniadau ar y cod tref nad yw wedi gallu cael eu cyllid. Y flwyddyn hon, rwy'n credu y byddai'n mynd i fod. Diolch i'r Cymisiwn Gwladol ym Mhroedd a chadwyd yn yno ac yn rhoi cyngor gwych i ni. Diolch i'r Cymisiwn Gwladol Cynllunio. Gadewch i ni wneud hyn. Rwy'n credu y mae'n ymwneud â phopeth y gallwn ni ei wneud o ran y cynlluniau sydd yn rhaid i ni weithio yn eu cynnwys. Mae'r amser yn ddigon cyfleus, yn ymwybodol o'r cyfrif, ond hefyd o'r realiti o'r gwaith sydd yn rhaid ei wneud a'r cyfle o'r Burw. Rwy'n credu ei fod yn ddifensibol ar gyfer llaw. Rwy'n hoffi diolch i fy nghydweithwyr am yr holl gwasanaethau ar hyn a'r cymuned, fel y dywedais. Rwy'n mynd i gymryd cyfnod gyflym i ymateb i rywbeth a gafodd ei gyflwyno am y prosiect Transit Division. which is in my portfolio and PBOT. So not only will the project, we just got $87.5 million from the federal government to complete this project. It will reduce travel times on our buses by 20 percent, making buses 15 miles from Portland to Gresham, a much more viable option for people, for commuters. It will have buses running every 12 minutes or more during peak hours. It will include shelters that include amenities such as weather protection, and it will include trees, trees all along the project. I vote aye. Thanks. Thank you.
 Uh-oh. You know, it's never good when the mayor and the council clerk and the city attorney are just standing over there talking to each other. When the mayor should be right here voting. It's nothing serious. That's what they all said. I get nervous when I see legal counsel and the clerk conferring, and then I run over there and everybody really panics. Commissioner Fritz, legal counsel just wants to make sure that we clarify the word change that you wanted to make in that last amendment during the break. Was there? No, I didn't change it. We decided that it's fine the way I said it. So I will email the council clerk with all of my amendments in track changes so that you can add that. Thank you, though. To clarify, the question was, is regulation and standard the same thing? Because I said regulation and there's standards, but standards are regulations. So we think we're good. I just would like to specifically thank Commissioner Fritz for capturing all of those amendments. It's been a really long day, and it's been a hard day, and this is a wonderful way to end it. And I couldn't have done that, so thank you. This was like the distinction between boot and trunk, I think, right? Wheeler. Well, I won't belabor this. I just want to thank everybody for your testimony, and I want to particularly thank my colleagues, Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Fritz, and their very incredible teams for all the hard work they've put in. And I want to thank Sam Diaz, Sam Wave. I want to personally embarrass you. Sam does fantastic work on behalf of my team on a whole host of issues related to our climate action planning, to our environmental goals and preservation and protection. And I just feel really privileged to have you on my team, Sam. And I do want to thank the bureaus. The bureaus that are involved here are already very overloaded with a lot of work. And I appreciate the grace and the class with which you worked on this, particularly over the holidays, to help make this happen. It's duly noted and greatly appreciated. So thank you. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. And we're adjourned.