Are we good to go? Very good. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, January 3rd, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Sue, please call the roll. Prince. Here. Fish. Here.
 Saltzman? Here. Udallie? Here. Wheeler? Here. Colleagues, before I begin our usual notice, legal counsel has informed me that I am to, in the future, read the entirety of the notice from beginning to end. And as many of you know, that is not my wish, but I want to make sure that I am following proper procedure.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everybody feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also to ensure that decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up, and when your time is done, the red light will come on.
 that disrupts the meeting. For example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I will issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. If folks would like to show your support, please do a thumbs-up.
 If you want to express that you do not support something, thumbs down. Thank you, and let's get started. Before we begin communications, we have one formality that we need to take care of. Commissioner Fritz has served ably as the council president for the last six months. Her term is now expired.
 And we need to elect a new councillor. Commissioner Fish is next in line to serve as the council president through June 30, 2018. Colleagues, I'll accept a motion. I move that Commissioner Fish be president of the council for the next six months. Second. Commissioner Fritz seemed almost gleeful. Thank you.
 in moving that. And Commissioner Udaly seconded that item. Please call the roll. Fritz. This is often a very ceremonial position. It does rotate through the council. It chiefly serves to manage the council when the mayor is not available and in other emergencies. And I'm very happy that Commissioner Fish is taking over these responsibilities. Aye. Aye.
 Mayor and colleagues, this is the greatest honor of my life. And it is just a coincidence, Mayor, that your colleagues are encouraging you to take a three-month round-the-world trip during my tenure. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Southman. Aye. Udali. It seems fitting that one year after the first time I walked into this room and Commissioner Fish said, congratulations, you are now council president, and I thought you were hazing me, that it's now your turn. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's going to be a long six months. Yeah. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish, and thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for standing in on several occasions. I appreciate it. First item, please. Communications. Item number one, request of Mimi Gurman to address council regarding ethics of city council members. Good morning. Happy New Year. Thank you. You too. Reflections. The weight of sorrow breaks hearts, Mayor Wheeler. Oh, this is loud today.
 It's freezing outside, yet the houseless remain on the streets in pain, suffering in the cold, hungry, and some perhaps about to medicate themselves to death because the weight of sorrow breaks hearts. January 2nd, 2017.
 I dropped off a plan to your office, Mayor Wheeler, showing how the city might prevent more deaths due to bad weather conditions. It was clear. It stated that during weather emergencies, all community centers should be open 24-7 to provide shelter. Buses should be used to escort houseless people who agree to go to shelters with their belongings and their animals. All city vehicles should be used to go out to locate houseless people to see if they are okay, in need of emergency care, or if they want shelter to escort them.
 that the mayor should go onto all media and request that all churches and places of worship open their doors to allow people in. I asked the mayor to collect a database of volunteer doctors and medics for on-call duty during the crisis and a database of volunteers who could person shelters during the crisis then and now. The response was far less than what I consider humane. We got a one-room shelter downtown, one in St. John's, no thanks to the city, and one in Outer Southeast.
 One year later, our first houseless person died that we know of just days ago. The press hasn't told us who this person is. Did the city's PR team control the story so folks wouldn't find out that we had our first death this winter? I don't know. Remember that no city business is more important than saving lives on our streets. That's what our message to you is. And it should dictate how you act.
 You can't pretend that what you're doing is helping because it's not helping. We need housing. The future housing goals for years from now, 2-1-1, the city's pretense of humanity, is not working. Fill the bank foreclosed houses with houseless. Fill empty rooms in hotels. Change the paradigm of what affordable is. Let's get real about it.
 In 2017, the council wasted precious time trying to shut me down, my voice, the voices of all activists in City Hall, that the houseless suffered all the way to their deaths. Because you chose not to do the right thing, because you chose to vilify activists, because you chose to talk about us and bully us about our public testimony on Facebook, because you chose to waste time, now we have our first John Doe. No name, no answer, it's just a houseless person dead on the streets.
 The city council will continue to applaud itself for doing the least rather than the most, and people will continue to die.
 People will vilify activists, our voices, for fighting back, for fighting back to maintain our rights, fighting back against police aggression, brutality, and murder, for fighting back against commissioners who think that no laws apply to them. We will fight back. We will not stop. House the houseless. Deal with the cops. Deal with this reality. No name, no answers, just a houseless person dead on the streets. John Doe. I hope that you can do more this year.
 Thank you. Thank you. And just a quick response. Buses are on standby from TriMet. With regard to transport, during the last two weeks, we've had the police, the fire, the Transportation Bureau, and the Water Bureau all stood up and have provided transportation. The churches and the faith community were actually the first in.
 We've had several meetings with different groups of faith communities who have been very helpful and we're very grateful for synagogue services
 Temple Beth Israel being the first to offer up space this year. With regard to hotels, as you know, our family shelter has been stretched thin because we are providing the largest family shelter service in the three-county area. So what we have been doing is actually paying for hotel vouchers so that nobody is left outside. Okay.
 However, you are asking us to rise to a challenge, and I accept the challenge, and I appreciate your asking us to rise to the challenge. I like your idea of doctors and medics being on call, and that's not an area that I've personally pursued, but it's of interest to me, and perhaps that is already being done, but I will check with the Home for Everyone and see if there's more we can do there as well. So thank you for your testimony. Can I just respond for a moment about it?
 Just that I did call 211 a few times to arrange rides for people, and that never happened. And it took about 20 minutes to get through to somebody. And the system still isn't working, at least from the perspective of those of us out there.
 trying to communicate with them. That is a fair criticism, and you sent me a very thoughtful email, which I forwarded, and there was a response that I think I actually shot back to you. And so I will acknowledge 2-1-1 is an important system, and it can be a better system. I think we're in agreement on that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Next item, please.
 Request of Star Software to address counsel regarding conduct unbecoming that of a publicly elected official and police accountability. And Star is unable to make it today. Very good. Next item, please. Request of Catherine Smith to address counsel regarding issues with the police. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Ted Wheeler and commissioners, I'm testifying again because those Tigard cops are still stalking, threatening, shooting me remotely every day today.
 with those microwave and ultrasound weapons mainly. They say they shoot my son every day too, especially when he's sleeping to give him cancer. People might wonder why do I keep testifying here, trying to have you talk to the police chief so she'll simply transfer my case to the appropriate cops, ones who are not being blackmailed to cover up for those Tigard cops and my Tigard ex-neighbor lady who participates. For one thing, it creates a trail of evidence. Secondly,
 It assures that I did give you enough information and evidence that a reasonable person would conclude that high-level crimes are being done to me and my son. Before I get into more questions, you could say something like this to the police chief, Danielle Outlaw. Catherine Smith said she's trying to get her case transferred to another cop who will investigate and prosecute for these assaults and other crimes done to her and her son, but she can't ask you directly because she says...
 Some of your office employees and Portland police are taking her letters, even certified, and emails addressed to you so you won't find out about their cover-up of these crimes. Here are a few more questions you might have asked me if you hadn't accepted the gag order someone appears...
 to have put on you about my case and these issues. I already answered. How do I know it's those Tigard cops shooting me and my son if they do it remotely? Two, what do they talk to you with? Three, what's their motive? Four, why don't those hundreds of other Portlanders who are also their targets come here to testify? Okay, a new question.
 Did the kind of weapons used in the shootings of you and your son play a role in some of us ignoring your complaints and reports of these assaults and attempted murders? Yes, even if you were told a different reason. They were ignored mainly because those types of weapons were and are used on us, not because there wasn't enough evidence of their existence and of injuries and harm they caused. That is discrimination among other crimes.
 Some of the crooked cops and other people don't want the public to know they have or have access to weapons that can injure, incriminate, even kill people, that even work through walls, and that can be set up remotely. If they do a crime, they might use these weapons to intimidate or incapacitate a witness, so they want to keep them secret and out-of-court cases.
 Next question. What are some, but not all, methods those tiger cops use to make a person of authority or not not want to help the person reporting these crimes? They blackmail them or they lie to them. Also, all of us, they shoot a lot with these voice-to-skull microwave weapons,
 to radiate us ultrasound to give us pain and injuries. They always do slander campaigns on us. So when they tell you to or subliminally order you to look us up, you'll see the slander campaign, falsified reports. Some may be partly true or not, and some things they may have voiced to scold us to do like a puppet. I'm almost done. One last sentence. Those cops want you to think we are bad people, not worthy of helping. Thank you. Next item, please. Thank you.
 Item four, request of Michael Lilly to address counsel regarding Portland Bureau of Transportation irrationally discriminates against resident of larger apartment houses in the Northwest. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Michael Lilly. I'm an attorney. I'm here representing Multifamily Northwest, which is a registered lobbyist. And they asked me to come today just to point out to you that
 PBOT has adopted a program, a residential parking program in Northwest that has a very discriminatory effect. It may be unintentional. I don't want to attribute motives to anyone. But it is very discriminatory because, in particular, it discriminates against the residents of larger apartment buildings. How does that work? I mean, in a nutshell, here's what happened. Their new program that was adopted September 1st,
 says that if I live in a single-family house with my family, I can buy as many residential parking permits as I like. I can buy one, I can buy four, I can buy five if I have five cars. But if I live in an apartment building with more than 30 units, first of all, I can never buy more than one permit. But more important than that, I may not be able to buy any.
 Because if 60% of the people in my apartment building already have permits, I'm not eligible to buy a permit. That doesn't make sense. Much of this area is zoned for high-density multifamily housing. How does it make sense for PBOT to be putting penalties on people who live in that multifamily housing and treating them differently as second-class citizens who are not entitled to the same kind of parking permits
 as somebody in a single-family home or a duplex or a smaller apartment building or even a condominium. It doesn't make sense. It's also, by the way, not legal. Oregon has a constitutional provision that says if you're going to give privileges to someone, and a residential parking permit is a privilege, of course. No one has a right to it. If you're going to give privileges to someone, you have to give privileges out equally to all classes. And that's not happening here.
 Now, this is not my first attempt to say something about this. I wrote a letter to Commissioner Saltzman, and I got in contact with a city attorney, and I met with the city attorney's office and representatives from PBOT and laid this out for them. But basically, I was stonewalled. Their justification for this is that the Stakeholder Advisory Committee recommended this.
 And so we had to do it. That was their only real justification. But, of course, that's not true. The stakeholder advisory committees advise. They don't adopt regulations. The regulations are only adopted by the city, not the stakeholder advisory committees. Thank you.
 So I'm kind of at the end of my rope. So I'm coming here to talk to you and ask you to reconsider this, and I'm going to follow up with giving you copies of the longer letter that I gave to Commissioner Salzman earlier and then calling and seeing if I can get appointments to talk to you. Thank you. Is this letter different than the one you're referencing? Yes, there are two letters. This one is just I held it to two pages because I don't know.
 I knew that you were not going to have a lot of time to read it. The clients probably think that. All right. The letter to Commissioner Salzman, which was on November 1, is much longer. It has details. It has attachments that show you what the program is and the impact. And I'm going to send that out to you. I didn't want to send it to you without you knowing what it was. Thank you. Appreciate that. All right. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item number five, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding trust and city government.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Craig Rogers. First let me say, Ted, I appreciate your thoughtful response to Mimi's testimony. Thank you. Thank you for that. So basically this is like how I spent my summer vacation. And where I live, I've lived there for 40 years. Fortunately it's right across from me. Portland Community Center, one of my favorite places. And I care about my neighborhood, my school district, and my city. And...
 When it happened where the pressure was put on Springwater Corridor, it's kind of like a balloon, you squeeze it, and those people have to go someplace else.
 So they started showing up in big numbers right there across from the East Portland Community Center in that whole wooded hillside and other areas. You know, one of the pictures that really pulled the strings in my heart is that lady in her car living in it. It says, living in your car is no camping. And there's a rabbit, a rabbit in the back seat. She's, you know, holding her head up there. But then, see, there's another side to that. The plates on that car, that's right in front of my house. That's New York.
 And they showed up and they're so happy because they just drove straight here. See, I live on the Gamer Trail. They drove straight here from New York and they came to the land of milk and honey and free crack pipes. So I've been here before and there was a big problem there. And it was via Dan and Matt Grum really got on it. Here's a letter from Mark Galky.
 the principal of Floyd Live Middle School that's right there next to it. And within two months, Matt Grum brought those abandoned houses down to the foundation. He didn't mess around. And he started fining the people that owned it because they were estuaries for crime. It's my understanding that there's a thousand of these known camps throughout the city. Here's a policeman saying that just recently in the Southeast Examiner.
 So I went out to Fred Meyer's back in September, and I talked to management there on 82nd Foster. This was before they made the decision to close down. They told me that they wanted you to come out there and work for a day. So this hands-on, putting your feet on the ground, is really going to make a difference if you put yourself in their shoes. And I'd really suggest that you try to do that. So when I would come down here about this recent problem, and it was a tent city.
 This gentleman here, he went down to the boutique in Pearl.
 one of your staff and there's another gentleman, I don't know if you can see that far. I'm trying not to say any names. But when I came in here after sending all these emails to your spokesperson during the summer and not getting any reply back, he comes running up to me with his phone saying, I want to know where the hot spots are. Same thing this gentleman said that went down to the boutique in the Pearl. Well, nothing happened. I says, okay, let's go forward. Nothing happened.
 So it really makes me wonder why this wall is there with communication. Because to me it seems like from the hierarchy in here, it's you drink the Kool-Aid, you build the wall, and you feather your nest. I don't really want to think that at all. And here's part of the you drink the Kool-Aid. Here's a gentleman with Portland Business Alliance, and he's saying Portland is doing better as compared to what?
 So today's paper, here's Consumer Reports, The Hidden Truth. That was in today's paper. And I said, what am I saying? I'm coming down here, The Hidden Truth. I need you to wrap it up for me. It's kind of like my favorite movie is The Wizard of Oz. And Toto pulls the curtain back. And he says, pay no attention to that man behind the curtain. No, that's where all your attention needs to be.
 That's all I have to say. Thank you. Appreciate it. The consent agenda, Sue, it's my understanding that we've had quite a few of these withdrawn. Is that correct? Right. Items 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Okay. Given the high number, let's hold off on those. Let's get to the time certain and then we'll get to the consent agenda items that have been pulled. Can you please call the roll on the remainder of the consent? Okay.
 Fritz. I'm very happy to see the council grants amongst these items. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Next item, item six, please, time certain. Mayor. Commissioner Fish. We do have some members of the public here who were here just to witness the adoption of our consent agenda. Aye.
 So if we're going to proceed with our regular agenda, then this won't come back for a couple of hours. I just want to make sure people know that. Is there a particular item, Commissioner, on the consent agenda? Michelle, which one are you here for? Which number? Number 13. We have someone here from the public for number 13. Why don't we do that one? Let's do 13, item 13, Allen Temple Church. And I'm not sure who pulled it. Do we want to take the testimony first? Yes.
 Mr. Walsh. I'd like to hear some testimony about it. Okay. Very good. Item 18. Item 13. Item 13.
 authorize a grant agreement with Allen Temple Church in an amount not to exceed $30,000 for their community outreach and emergency services program in North and Northeast Portland. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Michelle Harper, and I'm the project manager for the Allen Temple CME Church rebuild. As you know, we suffered a devastating fire roughly two and a half years ago, and we are in a very good place right now where we are rebuilding, have wonderful facilities.
 minority company that is specific mark who is our construction company bill Hart called in heart is our architect and has done the design the city has been very supportive through the Bureau of Development Services waived over 50% of our fees which was very very significant and so with this grant that we have received from the city that will allow us to continue the outreach programs that we have we are a site for the Northeast Oregon Food Bank
 We have a homeless outreach team that goes out every month, takes food, shelter, clothing, food and clothing, and also hygiene packets out throughout the city.
 We also provide meals, hot meals, and food baskets out of our outreach emergency food program as well. So a lot's happening and a lot's going on. We were also very fortunate to get $280,000 grant from Prosper Portland to support the rebuilding of our church. So construction is well underway. And so we will hopefully be complete by the spring. And the city has been a wonderful supportive partner in getting us
 underway because it has definitely been a journey, but the support that you all have given us individually and collectively has got us in a very good place right now. Michelle, can I just add one thing, just for context for people who are here? This grant arose out of the special appropriation process that the city established. Yes. Money was set aside. A number of people were designated to screen and review all the applications.
 This application was deemed to be meritorious. The council approved this and a number of other grants, and what we're doing today is authorizing the distribution of the money. So it's already been approved. Today is the action where the money gets dispersed. And if I could also be clear, there are many aspects to the facility itself. What we are specifically funding is the community outreach and emergency services program. Exactly. Yes.
 within that. And so they provide not only emergency food counseling services, HIV clothing, hygienic services, and other training programs as well. Exactly. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you so much. And you will all be invited to the grand opening. So we'll keep you abreast and give you progress reports on where we are with construction. Wonderful. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for the gift. Mr. Walsh, I believe you pulled this item.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. May it bring us peace. We have no objections to this grant at all. We really like this grant. As Commissioner Fish pointed out, it was screened and we're aware of that. Our objection is that it went under consent agenda.
 We think that people that get grants should come and do exactly what the recipient just did and explain it. I think your constituents have a right to know if you're going to give $30,000 to somebody, why you're doing it. So consent agenda has always been an irritant to us. According to the charter and the way I read it, it's supposed to be non-controversial.
 kind of paying the bills so we don't waste time talking about very mundane things. When you start getting into grants, those are not mundane things. There are two levels we object to. Number one, we should celebrate giving that money to these people because they're good people, and we need good people at the moment, and we need to celebrate them.
 I'm suggesting, and Individuals for Justice is suggesting, don't do it under consent agenda. Do it under regular business so we can have somebody here. If you offered me $30,000 in a grant, I would come and talk to you. I really would. I would get a mocha and sit down here and thank you for it and explain why I want it. That's what we're saying.
 That when you give grants, do it under regular business. It has nothing to do with the recipients. They are really honorable people, and you should be proud to give it to them. And you ought to brag about that a little bit, because you do a lot of things that we don't like. This we like. Brag about it. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question. Ms. Walsh?
 Yes, ma'am. I have a question. Were you at the public hearing when it was on regular agenda to decide whether to give this grant? Was I here? I'm sorry, say that again. Were you at the public hearing that we held that talked about whether to give this grant? All right. My understanding is there was a whole group of grants, and the people that were reviewing the grants did the recommendations, and this was one. Okay.
 Yes, and we had a public hearing on regular agenda to look at all of the grants and decide, is this a good one or is this not? Does anybody have any objections? And we adopted the plan to give this grant. So the reason this is our consent...
 There's a big difference in that. All right, let's move along. Thank you, sir. Item number six. Let's take it to a vote. Oh, thank you. I forgot about that. Fritz? I very much appreciate, as is mentioned under the communications, we have many faith institutions who step up and help in multiple ways, and this is one of them, thanks to Allen Temple Church and all of the staff and volunteers there. Aye. Fish? Aye.
 Well, let's thank Michelle Harper for taking time to join us today. And she was with us not long ago with the Lowenstein Trust Award, honoring two distinguished members of the clergy. And this looks like a good project. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Well, it's been a pleasure to work with Allen Temple Church, and I'm excited to attend the grand reopening. I don't think Michelle is gone, but congratulations and aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The grant's adopted. Item 6, please. Item 6. Recognize the 2017 fire prevention poster contest winners. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Every year the Portland Fire and Rescue Prevention Division sponsors a poster contest and we're here today to recognize the winners of those poster contests on fire prevention and I'll turn it over to our Fire Marshal, Nate Takara.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Nate Takara. I'm the Fire Marshal for Portland Fire and Rescue. Thank you very much for having us here today, giving us the time to talk about our fire prevention programs. When Chief Myers started his job as a fire chief 18 months ago, one of the visions he had for Portland Fire and Rescue was to make it a world-class organization. To make it a world-class organization, one of the things we had to do was reduce our fire deaths to zero.
 Currently, we have revamped 162 consecutive days without a fire death in Portland. Fire prevention is centered around these five important elements, public education, code enforcement, engineering, economic incentives, and emergency operations. This morning, I would like to speak about...
 about our public education programs. First, I'd like to introduce your newly adopted public education team member, Sparky the Fire Dog. Sparky is the NFPA, or National Fire Protection Association's official mascot since 1951. He's been on the job for 67 years, and in dog years that would make it 469 years.
 His dogged determination has been credited to help reducing fire loss and fire-related injuries across the country. SPARC has been instrumental in numerous fire prevention campaigns, such as Stop, Drop, and Roll, Get Out, Stay Out, Down 911, and in this current year's theme, Every Second Counts, Plan Two Ways Out.
 We've already put Sparky to work. He's been in our Veterans Day parade. He's visited numerous elementary schools. And during the holiday seasons, he was at the Oregon Burn Center visiting with children. We're excited to have Sparky to be part of our team. We're confident he will be able to connect with our children and continue passing on our important fire safety messages. Sparky.
 So Kim Kosmas, just to my right, she's a senior fire inspector who leads the public education program. She'll be talking about the cloning contest, the annual fire prevention cloning contest. Hello. Kim Kosmas. And as Nate said, I'm in charge of the public education program.
 And for this year's coloring contest, the items that we had for the contest taught the students how to, the importance of topics like not playing with matches, having working smoke alarms in their home, and planning an emergency evacuation plan with their family. The students, they submitted their artwork, and the majority of them expressed the importance of having smoke alarms and having an emergency exit plan.
 And today we have our two top winners from the contest this year in attendance. And let's see, the runner-up, we have Elva McGinnis Patterson. She's the first place winner. The grand prize winner is Percy Nolan. Colleagues, let's suspend the rules. And we have their artwork. It's been framed for them. So we'll share that with you guys, too. That's great.
 So, grand prize winner and the first place runner-up. These are fantastic. Yeah, those are great. Very nice. Those are beautiful kids. Yeah, good work. Nicely done. Picture. Open chip. Colleagues, let's take... Thank you. Can we get a picture with the kids? Is that all right with the parents? Yeah. Great. Afternoon. Hello.
 Thanks, Mark. Appreciate it. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. It's a great program. Thank you so much. Colleagues, with your agreement, we also have a member of the public here for item number 16 on the consent agenda. Could you call item 16? Wait, 16 wasn't called, right? Right. 16 has passed. 16 has already been approved. You said item 16, correct? 1-6? It's already done. You bet. Thank you.
 Please call items 7 and 8 together. Item 7, adopt the addendum to the North McAdam Transportation System Development Charge Overlay, establish a fee schedule, and amend code. And item 8.
 Adopt the addendum to the Innovation Quadrant District Transportation System Development Charge Overlay. Establish a fee schedule and amend code. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Last year, the City Council unanimously approved the Transportation System Development Charge Update that went into effect January 1st. This morning, staff will update us on the North McAdam and the Innovation Quadrant Overlay Districts,
 that have additional transportation system development charges associated with development. Unlike the citywide system development charge update, the project list in these overlay districts are not changing. This is merely a housekeeping exercise to align the methodology with the newly adopted person trip methodology and adopt updated rates. So I guess I'll turn it over to Rich and Jody to further explain. All right. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Rich Eisenhower. I'm the SDC Program Manager for the Bureau of Transportation. Along with me today is Jody Yates, our Right-of-Way Programs and Permitting Division Manager. Today we're asking for your support to update the methodology and rate studies to the North McAdam and Innovation Quadrant TSDC overlays and to also adopt associated code amendments. So, uh.
 Just to give some background, so in September of last year, Council approved the updates to the citywide TSEC program that went into effect January 1, 2018. The citywide updates included a revised trip accounting methodology to account for person trips rather than vehicle trips, some revisions to the land use categories, the rates associated with those categories, and the capital project list on where those funds can be spent.
 As a brief refresher, TSDCs are one-time fees that are paid by new development or changes of use within existing developments that will create an increase in trips generated to that site. The fees are intended to pay for the impacts that development will have upon the transportation system. A TSDC overlay is an area where development is subject to an additional TSDC.
 TSTCs in the overlay are based on the cost of a specific project list that directly benefits the properties within the overlay area. The TSTC fees imposed on development are expended on capacity increase in projects to serve growth within that area.
 The North McAdaman Innovation Quadrant overlays were created as a funding mechanism for new transportation capacity in these two areas, specifically linked to having a large potential for growth and lacking transportation infrastructure. There was a robust stakeholder involvement in 2009 and 2011 when these overlays were created. The TSEC overlays are intended to fund a portion of a fixed project list for a fixed timeframe.
 Once all the projects have been funded, the overlays are no longer needed. In addition to other projects, both overlays help fund a portion of the city's contribution to the Milwaukee light rail line. As the overlays were adopted separately and independently from the citywide TSEC program, we are here today to present updates to the two overlay programs that are consistent with the citywide updates adopted in September.
 These updates will bring the overlay methodologies into alignment with the citywide SDC. The citywide SDC had a very extensive public outreach process. So in addition to that work that we did through the citywide update, we also met with overlay stakeholders to review changes in each of these areas. We hosted a workshop with the stakeholders to review proposed rates and receive feedback.
 We presented these changes to the Development Review Advisory Committee, and we also published the proposed changes online for a 60-day public review period. Could I ask a question? I'm sorry, Mr. Chair, I'm not as familiar with this process. Sure.
 So you mentioned that it is to fund projects deemed to be a benefit to the overlay area. Mm-hmm. Who decides that? Is it this? That was during the 2009, 2011, when these overlays were created through that stakeholder work. So there are specific types of projects that have been deemed beneficial to overlay areas? Yes. Could you give me some examples? I have a slide. We'll cover those projects here shortly. Okay, great. Thank you. Coming up in a couple slides. Yes.
 So I guess we'll go first, we're going to go into the North Macadam overlay and kind of highlight that program. The North Macadam overlay went into effect in January of 2009 and was adopted as a 20-year program. This amendment, as shown on Exhibit A from Council Item Number 7, will update the original North Macadam rate study to align with the citywide TSDC program. The project list and the cost per trip remains unchanged.
 So this is, I think this will get to this. This slide is a map of the North McAdam Overlay projects and their status. The North McAdam Overlay is located to the southeast of downtown. It includes the River Place and South Waterfront neighborhoods. These projects are the same projects that were adopted when it was originally adopted in 2009. The dashed line represents projects that are yet to be built. We have four large projects left to be built. Money collected over the next 11 years will go towards funding those projects.
 and projects that we've already completed within this overlay include portion cost portion of the milwaukee light rail line and the intersection prevents a harbor drive and river parkway is the innovation quadrant inclusive of north mccadamer now no they're separate completely they are they're adjacent but they are adjacent but separate thank you yeah so there are still like mentioned four major projects of bond avenue the south portal some work around there
 Ross Island bridgehead that we're yet to be funded. Commissioner Fish, in his first official act as council president, asked me to ask all the dumb questions today. So I'm just doing what he asked. Now I'll highlight the innovation quadrant overlay. The innovation quadrant overlay went into effect in May of 2011 and was also adopted as a 20-year program. This amendment is shown on Exhibit A for Council Item No. 8. Thank you.
 It will update the original Innovation Quadrant rate study to align with the citywide program, and the project list and cost per trip, again, remains unchanged. So this slide shows the map of the Innovation Quadrant overlay and the projects and their statuses. The Innovation Quadrant overlay is located just to the south and to the east of downtown and includes the Portland State University and OMSI areas. Again, the projects are the same projects that were adopted with the original rate studies in 2011.
 The dash lines, again, represent two projects that are yet to be built. We've already completed four projects in this area, which includes, again, portions of the Milwaukee light rail lines, the central city loop completion for the Portland streetcar, the southeast Clinton to the river multi-use path, and the relocation of southeast Water Avenue. So the final step was to apply the newly adopted citywide methodology to both overlays and calculate the proposed rate schedule.
 We took the cost per trip, applied that cost to the aligned citywide methodology to create the proposed rate schedule for each overlay. The proposed rates to each charge for development within the overlay areas are derived using the same methodology and underlying data for the citywide program. The recommended cost per trip is to match the current cost per trip that we currently use in each of the overlays.
 So for North McAdam, it's $2,670 per trip, and at Innovation Quadrant, it's $2,150 per trip. Again, those are recommended to remain unchanged. The proposed rate schedules for the North McAdam and Innovation Quadrant overlays can be found in your Exhibit A on both Council items. This slide...
 This is intended to show an example of the impact of this change on new development. So this is one of the same slides we presented to you when we came here in September of last year with our citywide update. It's also an example of the project that came out on the Gator review session. So this looks at all the fees associated with the development. So in this example, for a new building that has a value of $6.3 million, it would be assessed $1 million in fees. $750,000 is associated with SDCs across all the four bureaus.
 and $250,000 in other fees. If this project is located, for example, in the North McAdama overlay, it currently would pay under the current methodology about $109,000, and with the refined methodology to conform to the citywide, the SEC actually goes down slightly to $102,000.
 So in conclusion, we ask for your vote and support today to update the methodologies and rate schedules bring both the North McAdams and Innovation Quadrant TSDCs overlays into alignment with our citywide program, as well as adopt code amendments. So Jody and I, as well as we have other PBOT staff here, are able to answer any questions you have. Thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions? Yes.
 Public testimony on either items 7 or 8. No one signed up. Very good. On item 7, please call the roll. Prince. Oh, sorry. I forgot I was the person first. Thank you very much for a very clear presentation and for all your work on this. Aye. Fish. Aye. Sossman. Yes, thank you very much for this work. It's complicated stuff. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 8, please call the roll.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Zaltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call item nine. That's correct. We do not have the time. Should we do 10, 11? Let's do 10, 11, 12, and 14. Let's get them all done. We have time. Item 10.
 Accept a grant from the Oregon Office of Emergency Management for their Emergency Management Performance Grant Program in the amount of $290,614 to administer an integrated all-hazard emergency management program for the city. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Good morning. Thank you. I'm Jonna Papa-Efthimiu with the Bureau of Emergency Management. And this is Karen Savajos, Finance Manager for PBIN. Nice to see you, Robin. Okay.
 Briefly, the Emergency Management Performance Grant is a pass-through grant that comes from the federal government to the State Office of Emergency Management and then to the City of Portland. It's allocated to all Oregon counties and large cities on a per capita basis. We've received it annually since 2007, and for us it's a bread-and-butter grant that supports emergency response planning, training, and exercises. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
 Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Did we have any concerns that we wouldn't get this grant this year? A little bit. Because Portland is a sanctuary city and Oregon is a sanctuary state, we had some concern that we might not be receiving the federal support as we have in years past. We certainly don't want to become too dependent on it, but we were grateful to receive it again this year and will happily accept the money. Thank you. Public testimony on this item? I'm going to speak on this.
 Come on up, Mr. Walsh. Come on up. Ladies, thank you. Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We were hoping to see some information about the houseless and the people living on our streets under this emergency. We realize this is a grant, has limitations, but we didn't see anything. Here's our problem.
 Think about this. If you had an earthquake, what would you do? If buildings collapsed, people had no places to stay, that would be an emergency. You would open up all the parks to the National Guard and they would put huge tents and beds and heaters. And you would stand there very proud of our National Guard because they did that.
 But when we have anywhere from $5,000 to $2,000, depending on who you're talking to, living and dying on our streets, we do almost nothing. Even though you have millions of dollars to spend, you spend it in the wrong way because you're doing the same thing for the last 40 years. Hasn't worked, will not work, but you...
 not look at this as an emergency here you got a hundred two hundred thousand two hundred thousand dollars are you including the emergency that mayor hale declared and you extended mayor do they qualify or is it just the possibility of an emergency maybe an earthquake maybe a flood
 How about dying on the streets? When are we going to take that as a real emergency and not just use sugar words and talk about it in committees that nobody attends and nobody listens to? Thank you.
 Thank you. And for the record, this includes all people in the city of Portland. This is a grant for the Office of Emergency Management to be able to respond on behalf of all of us to emergencies in our community. That includes houseless people as well as those who are out. Can you straighten out 211? Good morning. Will you straighten out 211? Mr. Walsh, I've already committed to making sure that we have a 211 system to be responsive. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. Happy New Year. Happy New Year it is indeed. In May 2010...
 I mentioned the fact that Healthy Kids does not cover, let's say, Hispanic immigrants. To Commissioner Fritz, and the real truth is, recently I found out from the National Organization of Women of Portland that the state of Oregon has passed a thing called Coverall. Coverall now effectively covers all children that make less or families less than $20,000. This means that anybody who lives in this state...
 who has low-income children will be covered by a doctor. Now, I'll double-check that one. It's called cover-all. That's come from Karen Power, who's in the legislature. She talked. Now all children are covered, basically, or they're more than the federal poverty line and have. I have come up with this conclusion that Oregon will be a sanctuary state, perhaps California, Arizona, and New Mexico.
 will take in, no matter what Trump does, we will have a large number of farmworking people or people in this state, janitor types, low-income jobs, who are from Mexico, and we need to take them in. Other states will probably have them evicted to Mexico. It's interesting to note that ISIS actually does things in Tacoma, Washington.
 So when they collect people, they send them up there, and then they get sent back. So I do think we will be a sanctuary state, and therefore I support grants from the federal government to aid low-income children and families. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Again, my biggest concern on the federal grants is
 knowing up front and following any and all terms of these grant agreements. Now, it's my position, and I understand, I don't agree with everything President Trump is doing, especially on immigration. I'm looking for major reforms on the whole system itself and still in viewing and negotiating at this time on various issues, again, that I don't agree with the Trump administration.
 But we have to be very careful on these federal grants, on going into these grants, knowing up front that if we are not going to follow these terms, what I want to make it very clear to the legal team of the city is that if you're not going to follow these terms, delete the terms out and make it very clear on why you're going to delete these terms and not follow the terms in the grant agreement.
 sign these agreements with the intent of receiving the money and then going back and say, well, we weren't going to follow these terms anyway. Not the direction you want to go with the Trump administration. Make it very clear to them you disagree, you want the term deleted out of the grant agreement, you don't plan on following it, you still want the money, and understand, just make it very clear, upfront, and straightforward
 that you can't meet these terms of these current grant agreements by the Trump administration and delete it, initial it, and take it out of the agreement. Do not accept the money and sign these agreements if you don't plan on following these grant agreements. Again, by American, that's what Trump is about, the United States. And you better remember, by these grant agreements, follow the terms and understand...
 This is why he's inserting a lot of different things in these grant agreements at this time through the new Trump administration to see if you're going to follow these terms or not and then come back and say, why didn't you follow these terms? Again, if we come back in the future. Can I clarify something? Yes, sir. Because you're making an excellent point, but I think we're mixing apples and oranges.
 the administration has threatened to retaliate against cities that adopt sanctuary city laws and rules by withholding certain benefits. Very true. The courts have said, interpreting a number of provisions of the Constitution so far, have said that would be illegal.
 There are no terms in these grant agreements that we would be in violation of. The bigger question is whether the administration can prevent us from being eligible to receive certain grants, particularly in law enforcement, as punishment and retaliation for refusing to become an agent of ICE. So far, the courts have sided with us on that. The Constitution is pretty clear on that point. I just want to make a distinction between that and what you're raising.
 That's more than fair if I might respond to that, is that being who President Trump is and how knowledgeable he is on the terms of the agreements themselves, what you're stating as far as...
 Sanctuary City has nothing to do with him implementing certain terms that you still must follow. And if he implements a term that says you must follow any and all executive orders that I sign and he implements that into your grant agreement, if you do not follow that,
 You are in violation of the grant agreement. Right. Not necessarily the sanctuary city status has anything to do with that. You are violating his terms of the agreement. That's a whole separate issue to deal with. Correct. And without, I don't want to burden the record on this, we are bound to follow any lawful order.
 and we took an oath to support the Constitution. A number of the provisions the administration has put forth have been determined by courts to be unlawful, and therefore we are not required to follow an unlawful order. But we can have this as a long-term decision. And if I could just respond within one second.
 Again, these are still being worked out through the legal system, and that can change down the line. So I'm saying to counter that back is to delete it, initial it, and say we are going to challenge it into court and make that very clear up front. That's my point. So anyway, thank you for allowing my time. Very good. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Any further questions, colleagues, please call the roll. Aye. Sossman? Aye. Aye.
 Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. I think we can do number 11 quickly, Mayor. Number 11, please. Number 11. Approve a one-time exception to HR Administrative Rule 6.03 to allow carryover of vacation leave in excess of two years' accrual for a certain eligible employee temporarily managing the development services section. My name is Mike Stewart. I'm the Director of the Water Bureau. It's a surprise to be sitting here this morning.
 Happy New Year. I hope you all had a nice holiday. Thanks, Mike. What's before you today is an ordinance to allow a young man, Vu Mai, one of our stellar employees who stepped up to be the acting head of our development services section, through a period of great turmoil as a result of last year's retirements.
 We had almost complete turnover in this section. Vu volunteered to take the leadership role in this section, and he hasn't had time to use all the leave he should. So what I'm asking for today is that he be allowed to carry over 140 hours of excess leave. Straightforward. Public testimony on this item? So I guess, Mike, so this is a one-time exception. Is this a one-time exception to...
 City HR rules? Yes, sir. It's a one-time exception to Rule 6.03. So as the Bureau of Human Resources, are they okay with this? Yes. This is their item. They're here if you'd like to hear from them. No, I don't need to hear from them. Colleagues, this is their item. And because the employee filled the breach when others were not available and therefore was not able to take vacation he had earned,
 It's the position of the city. He should not be punished for going above and beyond, and with this one-time exception, have it carried forward so he preserves the two weeks that he would otherwise forfeit. I will just note that that's three and a half weeks is what 140 hours works out to. Okay.
 So I hope that in the future, under your leadership, that we'll be encouraging employees to take their time as they should. Yes, and we normally do. In my 15 years with the city, this is the first time I think I've sat here for this purpose. Right, but it would still be challenging in six months to... Well, that's...
 That's more than accumulates over that time. We'll work on that, Commissioner. Indeed so, because it's very important that people get their time away from work, even though we appreciate their diligence. Thank you very much. Very good. Thank you. Public testimony. Mr. Walsh, come on up. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Our concern is not that you're going to make the exception in 603. Our concern is...
 With my experience at Long Beach Naval Shipyard, after I was a chief union steward, I was also a utility supervisor in my last year. And one of the things that we would get called in on is working people too many hours. And that's my concern here. When you say, okay, you cannot have or if we get too busy...
 You're not going to get a vacation for two years. You want to extend it to the third year. That's all concern. We want people to take their vacations because it makes for better employees. Every stat will tell you that. If you deprive employees of the opportunity to go on vacation,
 There is a negative side to that, a big negative side. And you should be considerate of that, and you're not. You're looking at, Commissioner Fish talks about the finances. I don't care about the finances. I care about the employee that had to work those hours, that had to dedicate themselves that much. Why is that? Who falls down on a job on that?
 that we don't have enough people to cover these positions. I know it's difficult. But I mean, there was Shipyard. We had 5,000 employees. It was very difficult. But we did it, and we would get our ass called in and say, what are you doing there, Mr. Walsh? You got this guy working 60 hours a week for the last three weeks. Uh-uh. That's all concerned.
 When you look at the vacation, don't look at it as a pain. Look at it as a benefit. Look at it that the employee is coming back smiling, hopefully, that they had a good vacation. They need that. In Europe, they're double the vacation. You know that, Commissioner Fritz. We're terrible on vacation, and now you want to extend it for 30 years. I know it's a one-time exception.
 Let me tell you about one-time exceptions. Or maybe not, you know. You make an exception, you open the door, and it floods. So don't call it a one-time exception. Honor the employee, do it, but be careful. When you do the eyes on this one, the pirate eyes, think about that. Think about that employee. They're working harder than you are, apparently.
 Mayor, can I make a closing statement? Sure. Commissioner Fish. Thank you. And I urge a council adoption of this. The Water Bureau has had two developments that have hit us simultaneously. One is an unusually high number of retirements.
 partly because of people aging out of their positions, partly because of uncertainty around PERS. There's a whole host of reasons, but we have had a tremendous brain drain, which we are now in the process of hiring for.
 Second, as my colleagues know, there was a huge crush of work year-end at the development services, in part because of concerns that under proposed changes to federal law, certain things would be forfeited, particularly in the area of affordable housing development. So we had fewer people and a bigger caseload.
 This gentleman, Vu Ma, was temporarily assigned to fill the breach. I completely agree with the testimony that this should be a one-time exception and we should make every effort to ensure that people take their regularly scheduled vacation.
 What I would say in conclusion is that this particular public servant went above and beyond at a time of great need, benefiting the people we serve, and it is our intention through this action to make sure he does not forfeit his vacation in doing so. And that's the matter before us. Well said. Please call the roll. Fritz. Ms. Walsh, thank you for explaining the point that I made to Director Stowe. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Daly. Aye. Ms. Walsh.
 Wheeler. All right. The ordinance is adopted. We're going to move next to time-certain item number nine. Number nine, report on recent work from the city auditor, utility payments, Prosper Portland, and Portland Housing Bureau. Colleagues, we have with us today the auditor, and she is going to present the results of a number of audits.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero, and I'm here today with Senior Management Auditors Jennifer Scott and Elizabeth Pape. And I'd also like to take the opportunity to introduce Kari Guy in her new capacity as the Director of Audit Services. This is the last time she's going to appear before you with an individual audit report for which she served as the auditor in charge, because she's going to be in charge of all of them now. Thank you.
 Today marks our second presentation of audit results since I've been city auditor. You may recall that our plan is to come to council periodically throughout the year to provide brief overviews of our most recent reports. And my hope is that commissioners in charge of bureaus that are the subject of our audits take our results in the spirits in which we intend them, which is for the city to become more effective, efficient, and equitable.
 We also hope to use these opportunities to speak to you as a group to highlight themes across audits that can apply to operations and programs, whether they are the subject of any particular audit that we are presenting. We have the results from three audits to present today, Utility Payment Assistance, Prosper Portland, and the Housing Bureau. And I'm going to turn it over to Jennifer Scott, who led the Utility Payment Assistance Audit.
 Hi, my name is Jenny Scott. I'm a senior management auditor and was the lead on the utility payment assistance audit, which was released in October of last year. In this audit, we reviewed the city's utility payment assistance program to determine if it is an effective approach to assist payment-troubled water and sewer customers. We found that program improvements would enable the city to assist more customers.
 The Water Bureau shuts off customers' water to compel payment of delinquent bills. In 2015, the year we looked at most closely during our audit, there were about 4,500 shutoffs of single-family residential accounts for nonpayment. Forty percent of these shutoffs were accounts that were shut off more than once during the year.
 As the light blue bar in the graph shows, total shutoffs have been trending downward, while the dark blue bar shows that the number of repeat shutoffs have remained relatively steady. In other words, the proportion of repeat shutoffs to total shutoffs is increasing. While most customers' water was reconnected the same day it was shut off, as shown in red, 8% of shutoffs we analyzed were without water for more than one month.
 The Water Bureau could not determine if these homes were vacant or occupied because they were not analyzing customer shutoff data. To assist low-income customers, the Bureaus of Water and Environmental Services introduced the Low Income Discount in 1995. The program is managed by the Water Bureau's Customer Service Division. The Low Income Discount Program was established with an enrollment goal of 10,000 customers. This goal has never been reached.
 Industry experts recommend that utilities analyze customer payment trends and possible reasons for nonpayment to help design their assistance programs. Additionally, the Portland Plan instructs bureaus to collect data needed to identify disparities, understand the conditions and challenges facing communities experiencing them. The Water Bureau was not analyzing customer data as recommended when we performed our audit work.
 Without data, the Bureau is unable to identify disparities in shutoffs and assistance, tailor assistance to meet customer need, focus outreach to customers most likely to need it, measure the impact of assistance, and make corresponding improvements to their program. We also found that improvements in program guidelines and training for all staff involved in the debt collection and program application process are needed to ensure consistency.
 We also found that payment assistance is not available to Portlanders who may need it most. Since 1999, Portlanders living in multifamily housing have been twice as likely to have incomes below the poverty level than residents living in single-family housing. However, the low-income discount program is not an option for Portlanders who live in multifamily housing.
 For example, the single family home at the top of the slide is served by one meter. The residents have an account with the Water Bureau, and if they meet the income requirements, they would be eligible for payment assistance.
 The residents of the multifamily structure at the bottom of the graphic are not eligible for payment assistance, even if they meet the program's income requirements. This is because their building is served by one meter, and their landlord is the direct Water Bureau customer. The residents of the building pay for water, sewer, and stormwater as part of their rent.
 Single-family homes make up the bulk of Portland's housing stock, but their proportion of multifamily is growing. In 2015, 84% of new housing production were apartments and condominiums, and demographers expect this trend to continue. Ensuring that the discount program is effective is important since demand for payment assistance is likely to grow.
 Although Portland's combined utility rates meet the federal guidelines for affordability, rates are increasing and will continue to rise as the city begins to treat water to meet federal requirements. Additionally, as the graph shows, Portland's poverty rate has grown since 2000. Our report contained four recommendations for the Water Bureau. First, to continue to study how to extend assistance to residents of multifamily housing.
 The second is to collect and use data to identify disparities, develop and measure effective payment assistance objectives and options, and to tailor outreach strategies. The third is to focus outreach for payment assistance on customers most likely to be in need and eligible. And the last is to strengthen training and program guidelines to ensure that customers receive consistent information and awards of payment assistance.
 The Water Bureau recently announced a number of changes designed to address many of these recommendations. So I have a question. Do you want to go ahead and do all your... I'd like to give Commissioner Fish an opportunity to respond prior to moving on. Maybe we should do each one just while it's fresh because there's going to be a sea of information. Well, if I could ask my question, then maybe that will inform your comments. Commissioner Saltzman. I was struck by the statistic that over...
 The percentage of households that have had disconnections for over 30 days, and the Water Bureau doesn't know much about those accounts. So has that changed as a result of your audit? Maybe that's a good lead-in to Commissioner Fish, but I think we should know more about this because 30 days without water is a very long time, and I worry if these houses are occupied, if they're occupied by families with children.
 In fact, when I was Water Bureau Commissioner, we had a situation like that, and we called the Department of Human Services Child Abuse Hotline because we felt having no water is a form of child abuse and neglect. Well, thank you, Dan. That's a very helpful way to tee it up. As you know, because you were previously the Water Bureau Commissioner,
 A lot of these houses are abandoned houses. They're zombie houses. They're houses where we cannot locate someone who is a responsible party, even when we send someone to the house. But in light of this report, we're going to do some things differently. So let me address it specifically. First, I want to acknowledge that about a year ago, the Water Bureau put together a team to look at these questions, and it's been ably led by Liam Frost and others.
 Second, when the auditor's report came out, it really framed and highlighted some of the biggest challenges we faced. So I want to begin by thanking the auditor, Mary Holt Caballero, and her excellent team for the comprehensive and thoughtful work you did on this audit. Audits are valuable tools for the city to assess where we are and how we can do better.
 And I want to especially commend you for drilling down on the Utilities Financial Assistance Program and setting forth some recommendations which we believe provide common sense guidance. As you alluded in your presentation, I've directed the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services to implement the recommendations and to work to increase the number of eligible customers that we serve.
 As part of the current budget process, our two utility bureaus are working with our oversight bodies, the Portland Utility Board and the Oregon Citizens Utility Board, to review and implement important changes, including a new multifamily housing utility payment assistance program. This is a program which will get around the challenge we've faced for years, including back to Dan's time, of not being able to offer the discount to someone that doesn't have a meter,
 enhancing program management and outreach with highly trained staff, increasing the existing crisis voucher, and adjusting the low-income discount to reflect housing size. All of those came out of your recommendations. And, Auditor, I want to just specifically thank you and your team for the good work you did, and we will be having a work session, I think in February, to lay out a comprehensive response to this audit. Thank you.
 Commissioner, I really appreciate your commitment to embracing those recommendations. I think that they point up some critical issues for the Bureau and for the city, and I very much appreciate that. Thank you. So is the Water Bureau now analyzing customer shutoff data? We are implementing all the recommendations, including collecting data on shutoff data. Okay, so we know more than anecdotally that...
 The household's going without water for more than 30 days.
 I mean, you mentioned that many of them are zombie or foreclosed homes, but do we know that, or are we just using anecdote? No, we send people to a number of these homes to try to find out what the situation is. It's a large number of homes. We are in the process of collecting the data so we can be more effective in how we administer this. No one wants to shut off someone's water. Under the charter, we cannot provide free water for an extended period of time to someone who doesn't pay for it.
 And sometimes there's shell games played between landlords and other owners of property and tenants, and that creates a challenge. But we are in the process of collecting data, and we will have a complete report to council at a work session in February.
 And I want to thank you, Commissioner, for offering up that work session. I think that's a great idea, and I look forward to it. And the auditors certainly raised some compelling issues, and I see that as all of our responsibility. Well, Mayor, let me also say that the issue that has eluded prior commissioners in charge, which is how do you extend a discount program to someone that doesn't have a meter, because our program is pegged to usage. And without a meter 
 The alternative is really an entitlement program, and that has challenges in terms of verification and staffing and the like. And as you know, this is an area where we have been sued over these kinds of programs, so we have to tread lightly. We think what we're going to be announcing in February
 is a significant breakthrough in how to target the most needy households using our resources in a very targeted way, not creating additional bureaucracy, but instead using an existing program. And our lawyers say that it meets all the applicable legal standards. So we're very excited, and we'll be presenting that to counsel in February. So I just want to be sure. So at the February work session, we will have the statistical data available?
 about households that have had their watershed off for more than 30 days, are they occupied or not? Dan, you can send me a note with whatever information you want at that work session, and it will be provided to you. Okay. Since this is the first time you've expressed interest, if you want to put in writing to me whatever data you'd like to see, I would be happy to provide it.
 Well, I think the purpose of the auditor presenting audits to us as a council is to provoke some discussion about the audits, and I think that's what we're doing here. So I don't appreciate being told to send it to you in writing when we're discussing a topic here in public that I think has great public interest. Thank you.
 So it sounds like in February we're going to continue this conversation, and it would also be helpful for me. I haven't had a chance to actually sit down with the audit team on this particular issue, but Commissioner Fish is saying he's looking at a proposed model that he'd like to bring back to the city council in February for conversations, and I look forward to that. I think that's great.
 I'd also be curious to know what other municipalities are doing. And I assume you had a chance to take a look at the models in other parts of the country and perhaps even around the world, or is that not true? Well, it's an issue that jurisdictions across the country have struggled to deal with. Has anybody hit on an answer that you think is particularly germane?
 I'd have to get back to you on that. Okay. That would be helpful, and maybe that could even be part of the conversation. Mayor, there is one obvious fix, which I'm not suggesting we pursue, and I don't think that council would necessarily embrace, but we could mandate that there be individual meters in all future multifamily housing, that the program from its inception has been pegged to usage.
 And the discount then follows. Now, we have other things we can offer people, crisis vouchers. We can do emergency things. We can replace toilets with low-flush toilets, energy-efficient toilets. We can do all kinds of things. But once you get away from a meter, you're sort of entering the area of an entitlement program. And administering an entitlement program on this scale requires a lot of resources, a lot of staff, and very few jurisdictions have gone that direction.
 Having a mandate around individual meters potentially raises the cost of construction for low-income housing, so there's some pushback there. What we're going to propose instead is using an existing program to get the dollars to the neediest people, a program that this council has previously embraced as an efficient way of reaching low-income tenants.
 And, again, our legal team believes this is a legal and practical way of expanding our discount program. And so not to get too far ahead of ourselves, because I really do want to give the team time to get to February to make the presentation, but it sounds like having read the audit that that would be consistent with what you would be suggesting in terms of filling the hole.
 I think that the recommendations in the audit are broad enough that they could encompass a lot of different ways to reach the solutions, and we don't pick out any one in particular. And so I would think that the work session in February would illuminate a lot of those kinds of options for the council to consider. Great.
 Commissioner Udail? Yeah, I just wanted to thank Commissioner Fish for continuing to pursue this issue. I know it's been on his to-do list for a long time to expand the assistance program. He very kindly invited my team to join in the conversation, and honestly, we couldn't come up with a viable solution either short of the one meter for every unit, which isn't...
 necessarily feasible retroactively and is possibly cost prohibitive moving forward. And I would also like to say, as someone who has struggled off and on to keep all of my utilities on and pay my rent, that the Water Bureau, and I'm not just saying this because you're my colleague, has been the most reasonable utility to deal with. So thank you, Water Bureau, for that. Thank you.
 Great. Anything else, Commissioner, on this one? No, no. We look forward to coming and making a presentation and answering all your questions. And I want to thank, second, Commissioner Udali, I want to thank Commissioner Fish for having previewed this and taken it seriously, and I look forward to that February work session. So thank you, Commissioner Fish. Next of your items. So next we're going to discuss an audit of Prosper Portland. My name is Elizabeth Pick. Move the mic a little closer. Okay.
 And I'm a senior management auditor, and I led the Prosper Portland audit released in November. In 2016, Prosper Portland owned or controlled 80 properties, which generated $1.7 million in net revenue. But by 2031, the agency hopes to increase revenue to $16 million.
 We reviewed Prosper Portland's real estate management in 2016 to determine if the agency was ready to meet the income goal, to see if practices aligned with strategic goals, and how staff oversaw the day-to-day management of third-party operators. We found that real estate management was not aligned with strategic goals and that there was limited monitoring of operators. And this is a video to summarize our audit findings. Maybe. Do you want to try it? Can you wing it? Yeah.
 This is a good experience for us. So what we found was that at the strategic level, the property management was not aligned with strategic goals, that there weren't programmatic or income goals for each property or for the portfolio as a whole. We also found that Prosper Portland had not regularly reviewed properties to 
 had not regularly reviewed properties to create financial goals. And one reason for that was that they have a financial investment committee, which is supposed to be charged with setting goals for properties, but they were only reviewing properties at purchase and disposition. So properties that had been purchased before the policy went into place had not been reviewed. And I think...
 About a third of the properties in the portfolio had never been reviewed by the Financial Investment Committee. And lastly, there were no equity plans for the properties. One of the goals of...
 Prosper Portland was to increase equity, but they had not, and they had a form and a policy to review all of their significant programs for equitable outcomes, yet they hadn't documented those conversations about their properties.
 And then at the more day-to-day level, staff had not performed risk assessments for each of the properties. One reason was that a lot of the properties had defects.
 there really wasn't a high risk profile for properties at the time. This was sort of not one of Prosper Portland's main ways of making money, but as they transition into relying more on real estate income, they need to understand that the risk profiles are changing for the properties.
 And so they need to perform a risk assessment for each property and then develop contract provisions related to budgeting, reporting, and protecting physical assets commensurate with the risks of the properties and then adequately monitor the third-party operated properties. So what does this mean for you? I'm going to go back to this slide. Yeah.
 As tax increment financing declines for Prosper Portland, Prosper Portland will need to make a lot more money from real estate if it isn't going to rely on general fund appropriations. But it has to balance the demands of financial self-preservation with programmatic goals for equity. In the past, without financial goals, the real estate portfolio generated less than one-ninth of the revenue required in the future. Okay.
 And in the past, without a focus on equity, the agency contributed to gentrification and displaced communities. So we recommend that Prosper Portland create program and income goals for each property, schedule regular reviews by the investment committee, document equity considerations, and create a program and income goals for each property.
 And at a day-to-day level, they should perform risk assessments, develop contract provisions related to risk, and adequately monitor third-party operated properties. Thank you. Very good. And, colleagues, I'll just draw your  I won't belabor it, but there's a four-page response to this in the back of the audit that I jointly signed along with Kimberly Branham, the director of Prosper Portland. Okay.
 The long and short of it is we agree with the audit findings, and I'm pleased that under Director Branham's leadership we've already begun to address many, although not all of the issues, and we're committed to this. So I would encourage you at your leisure to read the letter as well. Can I ask a question? Can we infer from this audit that if these recommendations are adopted and 
 and there is a more robust accounting for the properties and the kinds of things that you recommend, that you see no impediment to Prosper Portland continuing to change its business model, i.e. to become more of a property holder and income generator. So you're taking no position on the question of the mission and the future direction of the Bureau, which increasingly is 
 I think is designed to provide a sustainable funding source so they can do their work. Your audit is limited to how they manage their existing portfolio. Is that fair? I think that's how I would describe it. Our audit scope was limited to how they're managing their portfolio, and I really couldn't comment on the rest of their audit policy issues. Thank you.
 All right, last but not least. Again, I'm Connie Guy. I'm sorry. I feel like you deserve more credit. Thank you. I thought it was an excellent audit, and I appreciate it. And it was very detailed, and I think you focused on the right issues, and you provided the details in a way that made it, I think, easier for us to respond thoughtfully to each of the comments that was made. So thank you for that. It was an audit very well done. Thank you.
 And she can present on the fly when the slides don't work. So that's worth a lot. That's what she did. Yeah.
 So back to housing, the housing follow-up audit, which was actually released yesterday. In 2014, we conducted an audit of Housing Bureau's housing loan programs for multifamily housing. And one finding from the audit was that the annual review process wasn't working well. The loan payments were inconsistent, and there was a backlog of inspections, and reviews generally weren't timely. Housing Bureau had recognized the same problems when we were doing that audit, and they had already started to work to improve it.
 So we followed up this year, or actually last year, to see if the annual review system had improved, and it clearly had. Housing Bureau now updates the policies that guide their annual review periodically to address emerging issues, and those guidelines are approved by council. I think the most recent ones you approved were in November. So as things change, they're updating their policies.
 They have also created better tracking systems to ensure timely review, and they perform trend analysis by borrower to try to do sort of an early intervention, early warning of there's financial problems emerging by borrower. For each housing project, they also examine detail in three areas. They want to make sure the property serves the intended population, that it's maintained in good condition, and that it remains financially viable and is current on loan payments.
 During our audit, housing staff were still working through a backlog of reviews. Some issues, such as the methodology around calculating cash flow payments, continue to cause challenges, and monitoring resident services may need a little further adjustment. But clearly they made significant progress across the board. And moving forward, we just encourage the Bureau to consider the annual monitoring requirements at the time of project approval for really any project and make sure they're staffed up to do that annual review.
 Well, again, thank you for a very thorough audit and a good follow-on. And I want to thank everybody at the Housing Bureau who's been working tirelessly to improve the monitoring of city investments. I'm very proud of the work they've done. Obviously, this is a very positive audit and report, and I look forward to even more progress in the year ahead. So thank you for a great follow-on. I would...
 I want to thank the auditor for doing this. I really think this is a great innovation of you bringing your audits to the council, to the public, and in the full light of day talking about them. As you can see, sometimes it causes us discomfort, and to me that's a healthy thing. So I think your topics, the audit services' topics of audits are well chosen. They're timely and insightful. So I just want to thank you for doing this and look forward to the next presentation. Thank you.
 Could I point out one thing just to follow on to your comment, Commissioner, that the Prosper Portland audit is an example of what I  these opportunities that I'm looking for where we can do what we call readiness audits. Is the city ready to do something 
 like the Portland building renovation, or Prosper Portland put a tremendous amount of work into creating a strategic plan, which we always think is a great idea. And when they identified what they, the direction that they were going to head, the point of that audit was to get in and say, are you ready to do that? Are you on the path to achieve your goals? And so I think that those are a couple of examples that are a little bit different for auditing. Normally we're a backward looking organization
 And the housing audit is a more formal kind of follow-up than we normally do. Normally we're checking back with management
 how are you doing on your recommendations? Are you implemented? Are you in process? And what I'd like to do is to pick out a handful of audits that we've done in the past and circle back around and do a formal review of the work and to produce a report so that we can come in and have some continued conversation. And I think the Housing Bureau deserves credit for really putting in a lot of work to implement those recommendations, and we really appreciate that. Thank you.
 Thank you. Mayor, I want to just add a comment. Please, Commissioner Fish. Yeah, I've been here long enough now that I can remember when an audit issued, particularly an unflattering one, and it kind of got filed somewhere, collected moss, and there were some stern looks in the building when people from your office came into contact with other people. That's changed. I think it's changed because there is a much healthier and more respectful relationship between the council and your office.
 It's changed because you fought for and were successful in achieving independence for your office, which was frankly long overdue. And with that independence came a clear demarcation of lines. It changed in the willingness, the receptivity of you and your immediate predecessor to consider doing certain audits to frankly affirmatively help the council deal with some difficult issues.
 And I'm thinking about the spot audit, or I don't know if you call it a spot audit, but the single-issue audit that was done, for example, of some cost overruns at a BES building. And when that audit came out and it produced a lot of discomfort, we actually did a work session.
 where we had the chance to have the auditor at the table discussing the results, and out of that came a series of very significant actions that were taken to address those problems. And then most recently, with big changes occurring at the Regional Arts and Culture Council, including a leadership transition, I want to thank you for being receptive to the request that the mayor and I made that you consider doing a performance audit of them. There's never been one done.
 And there's nothing like a leadership transition period, I think, to make it additionally relevant. The new leader will come in with an audit, good, bad, or indifferent, that will help that person be successful. So there has been, in my opinion, there has been a significant shift in the tone of the relationship, and I consider that to be a leadership issue, and I credit you and the mayor for that. It has not always been so in this building.
 And I think the fact that the fruits of that is that there is now, I think, a well-established pattern of embracing the audits, embracing the recommendations, and then doing follow-up to see if we get it right. More of a partnership, even though, obviously, you are an independent officer. So I want to thank you for that. Thank you, Commissioner. Very good. Thank you. I'll accept a motion. So moved.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz, to accept the report, which are the collective audits, from the Office of the Auditor. Please call the roll. Fritz. I join my colleagues in thanking the auditor for not only for these excellent audits and thank you to the staff who've done them, but also for bringing these reports to Council for a public review and discussion. I share the Mayor's...
 of vocally discussing issues
 the findings. I remember back to the November 16 audit of the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement and it would have been so great to have been able to have a conversation about that audit obviously with the timing at the end of that year and the changeover in administration and also that was before the auditor instituted this practice, that didn't happen leaving only the option of dueling back and forth letters and or in the press which is neither of which is what I have...
 ever engaged in or tried not to. So I think this is a very constructive way to improve the city's processes and to provide accountability and to have that respectful relationship between the independent auditor and the members of the council that is the way it should be. So thank you very much for all of this. Four years ago when we had another change in the mayor's seat
 It's my understanding that the then auditor and the new mayor did not meet until in the fall of the first year. And if that's true, it is quite a statement. And I know, Mayor, that you made it a priority when you came into office that you met with the auditor, the independent auditor, as soon as you entered office. And I know that you had some conversations about how you wanted the relationship to work.
 and I think it has had a significant impact on the way in which the auditor's office and the council has interacted. There were some hearings last year that I thought were deeply regrettable, that were highly personal, and that resulted in kind of the public, I think, scratching its head, wondering why was the council and the auditor's office at each other's throat when, in fact, the auditor performs an essential function of providing independent oversight
 And I believe the reforms that the voters adopted have now made clear that they want that enshrined in perpetuity. So at the end of the day, I think leadership needs to be called out here for changing the relationship and the tone. And as a result, these audits are being brought forward, are being acted on in a timely manner. And at the end of the day, that's good for the people we serve. So I want to acknowledge and thank you for that. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you. Aye. Udalli. Aye.
 Thank you. And it's not very often that someone says they look forward to being audited, but I truly do. I think the auditor's office is able to take the kinds of deep dives that we don't necessarily have the time to do, especially if a bureau is not in our portfolio. It's also extremely helpful to the public for understanding what's going on.
 in the city. And so, yes, I look forward to, you know, let me know if you're going to audit one of my bureaus anytime soon, and I look forward to meeting with you. Bye.
 Wheeler. Commissioner Fish is correct that I have a particular view of audits. I think audits are a critical management tool. I think in the absence of objective third-party viewing what it is you do and why you do it and how you do it, it is very hard to evolve. You really need that outside look in.
 And in fact, Commissioner Fish, I believe I met with the auditor two or three times before I took office. And in fact, in terms of framing the issues for my administration, we relied heavily on the audit reports. By the way, all of which are available upstairs if people have an interest. The auditor keeps a collection right by the front door. And for the most part, it's really excellent reading. Thank you.
 I want to be clear, I don't always agree with all audit findings. And if I get to those types of situations, I'll be very clear about it. But as the auditor herself said, it is very important that we engage in these conversations and that we have these discussions in public.
 And as Commissioner Fish rightly pointed out, it was a very important thing that this city council did and the public did to give the auditor heightened independence. I think it puts us in good standing to be able to say that we truly do have an independent third party looking over our shoulders. Again, I'm very happy with the work that the Housing Bureau has done. It was a great audit.
 The audit of Prosper Portland, which is in my portfolio, has a lot of challenges in it, not the least of which is the Tifcliffe, but also there are issues around managing the real estate portfolio. There are issues of development. There's issues of capacity. And there are core issues around strategic direction, all of those things which we look forward to addressing in the future. So thank you, Madam Auditor. Thank you to your team and 
 With that, I vote aye, and the report is accepted. Colleagues, we'll go to items 12, 14, 24, and 25 in that order, please. Item 12 next, please. Item 12, authorize a grant agreement with immigrant and refugee community organization, Africa House, in an amount not to exceed $17,500 to support the Africa House United Against Hate project.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Yes. I'm Carrie Ko with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, the Portland United Against Hate Program, which is a program, a community-led coalition to track, respond to, and prevent hateful incidents in our community. So, again, my name is Jimmy Dugo. I'm the director of Africa House. Hi.
 take this opportunity to thank the mayor and the commissioners and also thank you for giving us this opportunity to
 help not only Africa House but our refugee community to rise against hate crime and assure that the core American value is also enjoyed by our African refugee community.
 Very good. And so this item was pulled by a citizen, so I'm not sure exactly what their question was. So if you could just cool your heels for just a couple of minutes, we'll let him testify, and he may have some follow-up. There may be a follow-up question the council needs to ask. Okay. Thank you for being here. Was that Mr. Walsh who pulled this item? Come on up. Okay.
 My name is Joe Walsh. For the record, I represent Individuals for Justice. And before I forget, a reminder that when the bureaus bring out PowerPoints, if they don't use large letters, a large portion of your viewers will not be able to read what you're talking about.
 So I watch it again today, and I would say 25% of the PowerPoints I could not read. And I always use myself as an example because I have reasonable eyesight at my age. But there are a lot of people that are sitting at home that need to know what you're talking about. So, again, I would ask you to do that. Now to the item at hand. We honor these people again.
 It is not the giving of the money that we object to. It's the consent agenda. Once again, you put it on consent agenda. And for your viewers, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, according to the charter, consent agenda is there's no discussion. In other words, if you wanted to give me $100,000,
 and you had to vote, and you put it on consent to gender, nobody watching this would even understand what it was. I would just get the money. And that's unfair to your constituents. Pay this stuff out of taxes. So they should know where the money is going. And if you're going to give 30 here, and 50 here, and 100 here, pretty soon you're into serious money. A lot more than I spent for lunch.
 that's what we're objecting to we've objected now for 10 years on deaf ears however there are a few council members that aren't here one mayor not here understand what's going on people are beginning to wake up and they're paying attention you're right commissioner fish at one time it was kind of dusty nobody was paying attention
 For whatever reason, and you can blame it on the national, the state, here, county, people are paying attention. I have people come up on the buses and say, thank you very much. I also have people come up on the buses and say, when are you going to shut up? So I get it both. My point is, people are paying attention. Whether they agree with you or not, they're paying attention. And we want to honor these people.
 We want you to bring them in and say we're giving you $30,000 because you're doing great work. And this is the reason why. Don't do it under the table because we're going to call you on it every time you do it. Commissioner E. Daly. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. So I want to. You can have a seat, Mr. Walsh. Thank you. You can have a seat, Mr. Walsh. Thank you for your testimony.
 Commissioner Udailey. I would like to let the audience... I know how you work. You're interrupting me. Yeah, you just say things and nobody gets to respond. Mr. Walsh, please. You had your say. Commissioner Udailey has a comment. Thank you. And she's not supposed to comment.
 It's allowed, but she's really not supposed to come in. I am the presiding officer, and I have decided that she may come. I know it's time to ship. So please sit down. Thank you. Commissioner Daly. I do believe that we're all entitled to discuss and deliberate items on this agenda. You are correct in this case. Be quiet. Okay, so he's disrupting, and I've really had it. Can you let him know? Mr. Walsh, please. One. Commissioner Daly, go ahead.
 On October 25th, we discussed item 1164, where we accepted the recommendations of the Special Appropriations Committee. It included the list of recipients. It included public testimony. So what we were doing today is authorizing the grants, which is merely a formality, because these grants have already been awarded.
 I will say that I do think the city could put more effort into letting the public know a little more about the recipients, about how the funds could be used, and about how they can find additional information. So I've requested at least...
 for grants pertaining to my bureau, ONI, that we do that and we post those online. And I'm going to suggest that we consider doing that citywide. There's really not much reason...
 not to. People have a right to know how their public dollars are being spent. It would be a benefit to the recipients. The public know they exist and know a little bit more about their efforts, so I think that would be a worthwhile endeavor. But we did hear 1,386 items last year.
 some of which were on the consent agenda, many of which were pulled. We don't have time to give to every single item that comes before council, and that is why things go on the consent agenda. Yes, and I'll second that and point out that there already was a public process related to this issue, and that is why it is on the consent agenda. But I also want to point out the individual sitting over there at that desk.
 He does not sit there for no apparent reason. He sits there to make sure that this council is abiding by our ordinances and our policies and our procedures and the laws. And they sit there mostly quietly.
 But as many people know, when we have done something here that was procedurally incorrect, they are the first to stand up and say, stop, you cannot do that. So just so people watching understand. Item number 14. I'm sorry, I forgot the vote, the most important part. Please call the roll. Fritz.
 Well, yes, there was a public hearing to assign these grants, and I appreciate Mr. Jago was here for that and is here again. Thank you for your time and coming back when I know you have many other things to do.
 I also appreciate the details in the grant agreement, including a plain language attachment that says what the scope of work is and what you're going to do in return for this $17,500. So anybody who is watching at home wants to know. It's clearly linked from the consent agenda calendar, so that what I would appreciate is if people have questions about something, look it up. And if you don't have Internet access, you can always call one of our offices.
 and then we can help explain it beforehand if you have questions. But that's how you find out more about these things, in addition to having been at the public hearing in the first place. So the important thing is that the Portland United Against Hate and Africa House are partnering to get some very needed assistance to the community, and I appreciate that. Aye. Fish. Aye. Sossman. Aye. Udeli. Thank you for coming in on such short notice. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you, and thanks for the great work that you do. Item 14. 14, authorize a grant agreement with African Youth and Community Organization in an amount not to exceed $30,000 to support the Standing Together Against Hate project. Thank you, and again, this is another grant that's already been publicly vetted, but Mr. Walsh pulled this one as well. What would you like to tell us about it?
 I'll just introduce myself again. Carrie Coe, staff with Portland United Against Hate, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. And my name is Suleiman Noor, Community Engagement Specialist at ICOE.
 And I thank you, all of the participants of this program, those who have been done. And same thing for the City of Portland and the mayor and the commissioner. So I really appreciate you giving me the opportunity to participate to the due process of the system.
 Thank you very much. And, colleagues, as you know, we have a large number of African immigrants in our community, and that's growing by the day. And this council has made the decision that it is very important for us to be able to work with and communicate with that community on a culturally specific basis. And this is one such grant that allows us to do that, as was the prior. Thank you. Mr. Walsh, you're up.
 For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Once again, your constituents should not have to be research people. You should explain it to them. And if you can't explain it to them, you should get out of office. You shouldn't tell them, well, here's a link. Thank you.
 Or you can find it here. Or we had a meeting and we decided to do it here. You didn't decide to do it there. Would you please clear up this? This is the authority. You approve here. People that send you stuff recommend it to you. Make that clear to your people that are watching this. It's fuzzy. You keep fuzzing it. It's like an old TV.
 that you can't get the correct picture on. So when you say, I had meetings, and we had 180, and we had this, and we had that, the people that are watching this and your constituents don't know what the hell you're talking about, they're looking at you now, currently. And they're saying, wow, wow.
 They're giving $17,000, $30,000, $50,000, and if I didn't object to these, they would never have heard it because it was consent agenda. The reason that we keep bringing these up and we will continue to bring them up is we force you to talk about them. We force you to bring people in to explain it if you don't know what it is.
 We would take your word if you could explain it, Mayor. You don't have to get staff in here. Just say, these are good people. We're giving them $17,000 to run their program. Cool. Bring them up. Let them accept it. That's what we're saying. We're not criticizing these people. These are great, noble people. We like them. Honor them. Don't do it underneath the table like you do the other stuff. Wait for the big stuff. Okay. Thank you.
 And by the way... Your time is up, Mr. Walsh. Please call the roll. My time is not up according to that. You constantly lie. Why do you do that? Please call the roll. Fritz.
 The purpose of pulling this was to get more attention on the actual issue. I want to point out that, again, there's an excellent attachment to A. This was discussed in the previous hearing. I think that many of the people that I see in the community are very capable of remembering from one hearing a few months ago to this one to understand what we're doing here. But this particular project is, I think, fantastic. The person hired by the African Youth and Community Organization will develop expertise as a community advocate, collaborating with others to develop
 protocols for gathering information, reporting, and developing an appropriate response to hateful acts. This person will be fluent in Somali and or Swahili. I think we have to remember that people are not always...
 that contacting the government, especially in these times, is the right thing to do. And when people have come from other countries where that was definitely not the right thing to do, what they need to know is who's the person in the community that they can trust to go find out is this something that can be reported? Is this something I can get help for without reporting it? And that's what this grant will do. So thank you very much for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Sussman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. So I have now explained four times
 to Mr. Walsh that these are items that have been previously heard in a public hearing.
 They have been discussed. They have been vetted. The people who have had to come back today as these items have been pulled have now testified again. So I will simply say this one more time so the people at home are very clear. You are incorrect. These have been publicly discussed. I can repeat it four times. At the end of the day, I cannot comprehend it for you.
 I vote aye. It has been approved. You're not! I do not, sir. Next item.
 24. 24. Appropriate $110,000 of contingency funding from the City General Fund to the Portland Police Bureau. Amend a grant agreement with LifeWorks Net Northwest in an amount not to exceed $210,000. And extend funding through June 30, 2018 for the new Options for Women program. Thank you.
 Yes, Commissioner Fritz would like a point of privilege. Mr. Walsh is about to leave. I just need to note that this item has not previously been discussed, and that's why it's on the regular agenda, and we're about to get a presentation on it. So thank you very much, Mayor. Colleagues, the item before us today provides much-needed funding for LifeWorks Northwest for the New Options for Women program, otherwise known as NOW. It provides trauma-informed care and services to women in Portland to help them leave the sex industry.
 In the past years, the city funded the NOW Program through a combination of PPB general fund dollars and the U.S. Department of Justice Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistant Grant Program, the JAG Program grant funds. The NOW Program has not received JAG funds for this year and will be unable to provide these necessary services to our community without the funds we're discussing today.
 I want to thank, in particular, Commissioner Saltzman for your leadership in ensuring this exemplary and necessary program receives this critical funding. And thank you to LifeWorks Northwest for the incredible service that you provide to our community every day. We're very appreciative and grateful. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I think you well described the situation here. As we know, sex trafficking is a significant issue plaguing communities across the country.
 and Portland is not exempt from these tragedies. New Options for Women is one of the only organizations providing services to women and girls who have been commercially or sexually exploited in the sex industry. We can't allow critical community organizations and the most vulnerable members in our community to suffer from failed leadership at the federal level, and that seems to be what's happening here. Failure to respond or failure to come through with...
 And funding is the same thing as neglect. So I want to thank you, Mayor, for your team's work on this. And I also want to thank Portland Police Bureau, New Options for Women, for doing this work. And we have here Kristen Williams, who is the program director for New Options for Women, and Officer Mike Gallagher. It's Mike, right? Right. Okay. That says Mark here in my talking place. Okay.
 who's been doing tireless work as the preeminent officer in the Portland Police Bureau working on sex trafficking. I appreciate your work. Thank you.
 Well, I feel like you covered everything I was going to say, so thank you. I'm Kristen Williams, so thank you for having us today. So just in general, a little bit of what you didn't touch on. So LifeWorks Northwest is a nonprofit agency that serves the Tri-County area. We serve over 19,000 people annually with prevention, mental health, and addiction services across the lifespan. And so the New Options for Women program is a program within that agency. And so as was mentioned,
 so eloquently already said, so I'll just briefly review. We provide mental health addiction and case management services to adult women 18 and over who are affected by the sex industry in Multnomah County. And we have partnered with the city since late 2008 providing these services, so thank you again for that. And what this program, there are so many unique aspects of this program, and several of them I will touch on today is that every woman that does come into our program today
 is not served by other services. We are the only program that I'm aware of that serves adult women from mental health addiction and case management services over the age of 18. We have a robust CSEC, Commercially Sexually Exploited Children Service Network, in the city. And when they turn 18, it kind of drops off. And the NOW program is kind of the catchment for and has been...
 for adult women. And so every woman that comes into our program receives a mental health assessment, a chemical dependency assessment, and a case management assessment by a peer mentor who has been a part of the life, who is in recovery themselves. So everyone receives an individualized treatment plan to help them address whatever barrier it is that's keeping them affected by the sex industry. So I wanted to just...
 share that. We have a really unique approach because of our relationship with the Portland Police Bureau and the sex trafficking unit where we can really work outside of the box because this is an outside-of-the-box issue. And so we're able
 to do things such as get women in the same day. We try to get them in within 48 hours of contact because that is a really vulnerable time. We are able to address basic needs, comprehensive case management, so if they don't have identification or birth certificate, things like that, and work with the Portland Police to address their needs. So...
 And we also are able to, the NOW program holds the Sex Buyers Accountability and Diversion Program, which I know Mike's going to speak more about. But that's the diversion program that addresses the purchasers of sex, which is that we wouldn't have these women coming into treatment if we didn't have the purchasers on that side of things. So this funding would help keep that vital resource to our community going. Okay.
 And there's so many things I would love to speak more about, about the program. And one thing I do want to say is that with our data, we have seen, because a few years ago, we really addressed and focused on the 18, 25-year-old population, that kind of transition-aged population.
 And we have seen the average age of women in our program go down, which is great. That means we're connecting with them and they're accessing resources earlier, which can divert their life course. So they are utilizing city funds and resources less by being in the system, the recidivism of being rearrested, things like that. So we do see...
 That is a great statistic. It used to be 48, 46 average age. Now the last quarter, first quarter of this fiscal year, it was 31 was the average age. And 13 of our participants of the 37 were between 18 and 25. That's an increase, which is letting us know on the treatment side that we are connecting to the women earlier to redirect their treatment. And I will turn it over to Mike. Okay.
 So I'm Mike Gallagher. I work with our sex trafficking unit and have been involved with them since its inception about eight or nine years ago. What is very unique about Portland is that we do have a partnership with the LifeWorks program. And I've traveled and our teams travel across the country to conferences and trainings. And we're one of the few major cities that have a team that partners. And when I say partner, we meet every two weeks. We talk two to three times a week about the women involved in the program, about the 
 dynamic resources they can provide and maybe somebody's got a job and can't go through the program they need. And working with us and then we come up with creative ways to help them through and work through that program to provide them the help that they need.
 Our approach eight, nine years ago when we got started was livability issues. It was to get the women off the street so the neighborhoods, you know, can enjoy their life in their neighborhoods. And our focus has changed because the evolution of prostitution has sort of gone to the Internet now. So we don't have the street-level problems. What we have is a bigger problem now, but it's behind closed doors. And the public doesn't see it, but we still have the need for resources like LifeWorks and the other partners we work with out there.
 So we changed our focus to a lot of education, providing resources, and education piece comes to the buyers, and that's that John School that I think we're all very proud of what it looks like. This year we had close to 180 men go through that.
 I provided you some of the comments that we receive at the end of that class. About 80% of the men that go through that class roughly write positive comments about attending that class and how it's changed their mindset about purchasing sex. And a recidivism rate is very, very low. We do catch the occasional guy that does repeat and you're just not going to change those men.
 But for the majority of the men that we have go through that class, look at prostitution entirely different by the end of the day. So we partner with LifeWorks to put that class on.
 At the end of that week that we do that class, we all get together, the partners that taught that class, talk about how it went, changes we've made. And the class has evolved over the years to be very proactive as far as education, having them come out of there to be able to write comments like that instead of feeling like they've been belittled or forced to go to a class like this. So by continuing to support LifeWorks and the type of work that we do and the partnership we have is essential to helping these women get the help they need and educate the public and the men that are buying. Thank you.
 to stop this. Could I ask a question or two? Sure. And I'm sorry, Dan, used the name Mark, blowing your cover now, so you can't be undercover any longer. But I'll refer to you by your actual name. So we have an explosion downtown of new hotel beds. Yes. Are you getting the cooperation you need from the hotel companies in terms of reporting suspicious activity, particularly when there's sex trafficking of minors?
 There's sort of a two-fold answer to that. The answer is yes. We have several hotels that work with us very closely to combat the trafficking issue, let us do missions in their hotels. We also put on hotel education. We're going to put on one, I think, January 19th.
 and invite every hotel that wants to come to it as far as to identify trafficking, what they can do, who to report to. So there's obviously some hotels that don't want to assist, but we're working to try to educate the people in the hotel industry how to combat this, when to report, what to look for. So the answer is sort of majority yes, but a little bit of no there. And my second question is, now that I live downtown and do a lot of walking,
 I have to say that I come into a contact with a lot of people that, in my uninformed way, that strike me as it is likely, if not possible, if not likely, that one is a pimp and the other one is an underage prostitute. And while I think we have to be careful about doing any kind of stereotyping,
 The kind of markers that I look for is a huge disparity in age, abusiveness in the relationship, one or both that seem to be very high on drugs, and other indicators that just scream this is not a healthy relationship, something's going wrong here. What kind of cause do you need to actually
 go up to a couple like that and seek identification or ask questions or conduct even a kind of a preliminary investigation. What do you need to document in order to make a contact? That's a good question and some observations you are making or what we're looking for. I think we're
 Law enforcement in general, I think, has done a poor job in the past of educating officers what to look for and the questions to ask and look beyond the obvious. We are trying to work on that. We hold trainings for our officers to what to look for and when to report. We also are working closely with DHS. In fact, we're doing training with them, I think, in March to help educate them on what to look for in their case management. And I know there's statewide training going on with DHS right now that we're part of.
 because they are mandatory reporters, to when to report. And I've seen our tips, I guess is what you want to call it, increase because of the education we're putting out there. So we're working on it. It's a long process, but we're trying to change the mindset of officers that, you know, this is not the victimless crime that, you know, people in the past have thought it was.
 And we're doing the best we can with the limited resources we have to educate the public and to get them to call in and report those things. Good. And, again, I'm just going to say I'm seeing a lot more people downtown who match what I would say is a suspicious profile.
 And it seems to me whatever the law allows to make a contact and then to ask for identification, to see whether someone's underage, see what the relationship of the guy is, and if it's not a family member, sort of inquire. I think there's a lot more we could do, and this may be 
 less visible in terms of how we use Internet and other kinds of things. But I'm seeing on the street level a lot more suspicious pairings. And if you listen to the way people deal with each other and the communication and the threatened violence and things like that, it's just something's wrong. And I hope our officers have the tools to do a friendly intervention just to,
 get some information, see if there's a problem. One thing the police bureau, we're talking to our training division, is to put together a video, like a roll call video, that we could put out to officers to address exactly what you're talking about, what to look for, when to ask, that relationship, why it looks sort of astray than what a normal relationship might look like. So we've talked about that. We've talked to the IT person there at the training division on, we just sort of got to get that in place. But it is one thing we're talking about doing. Thank you.
 And I believe you're also working with the Bureau of Transportation on educating private-for-hire drivers, our taxi cab drivers, our Uber and Lyft drivers, about what to recognize about sexual exploitation as well. Yes. We've had several tips already from the drivers that are picking up women and dropping them off at houses that just doesn't quite make sense. So we follow up on those when we get those. So is it Sergeant Gallagher? No, Officer Gallagher.
 I like staying where I'm at. It's a very fine place. That's actually part of my point. For nine years you've been doing this work, and I believe that you do it because you're able to make it a holistic and in some ways a very positive experience of something that would be a very difficult thing to deal with for me for even one day, and the same for new options for women. So thank you for doing that and your willingness to be dedicated to that. You mentioned limited resources.
 What more resources do you need to help get the information out to the public about the resources and the bad behavior? Well, you know, I think everybody's aware that all police departments across the country have limited resources in the hiring thing. But, I mean, Portland is working very hard on getting those. And I think and believe that when we do get staffing up to the levels that are required,
 that we will have additional officers that can investigate these crimes. But specific to your program in terms of publicity, are there things that we could fund in the meantime? Pardon me? You mentioned about getting the word out to the public. Are there things that we could help with that would then reduce the number of people that you would need to enforce? Actually, we work with a lot of...
 NGOs, non-government groups that are doing an excellent job of helping us. The Rotary is one of them that has done an excellent job helping us with the hotel training and putting ads on buses about trafficking and different things they're doing behind the scenes. They're handing out...
 little bars of soap with the national hotline that go into the hotels in the area. We're handing those out for free. There's a group called Epic that is men that are targeting the buyers, that does an excellent job of getting information out. And these are all groups we work with. I mean, there's probably things that I'm not thinking of right now that we could do, but, I mean, we do work a lot of...
 groups that want to help that are providing us assistance to to do what we can do i vividly remember coming to one of your community meetings with all of the different partners including faith communities who are you know doing things like buying a plane ticket to utah i remember the one meeting i went to for a woman who just needed to get back to the family so if um and our new colleagues have not uh attended one of those i would really encourage you to do so it's uh
 Kind of heartwarming to see a community response to a challenge like this. So thank you again for your leadership, both of you. Thank you. Mayor. Commissioner Daly. I'm just curious, how do the women connect with your program, and is it voluntary?
 That's a really great question. So there are multiple ways over the years that we have adapted to the needs of this population for a referent source. So more and more, we have women who are self-referred. So they are connected by a community partner. We have a very robust network here in Portland for this population. So we do have many voluntary people who do come in. Historically, this program was designed as a partnership where the women were arrested and court mandated to treatment.
 And that shift has changed as Officer Gallagher shared. So we have probation officers who, for other things that they're on probation for, identified this person has...
 like these red flag behaviors and they refer them to us. And also we have community partners refer people to us. People age out of other services. People come in through, LifeWorks is a large agency. They come into other service areas and they're identified and referred over. So there are quite a few resources. And we actually, the reason I wanted to point out that everyone has an individualized treatment plan
 It's not just everybody has to do all of these things. It used to be that way when it was more cut and dry.
 arrested, referred, and it's adapted to the issue as we've learned about it over the years. And the need has changed. So now we identify what they need. If they really need case management because they are homeless and they have no identification, they haven't had regular access to health care, our case manager focuses on that. If they really need the chemical dependency, their addiction is the primary thing we focus on that. So we really do tailor it to
 And I really have to credit our partnership with Portland Police Bureau because they've really supported the treatment side. We know treatment is that intervention that can reduce that recidivism. And we're always going to have those people that recidivate, right? I'm not going to ignore that data point, right? But the treatment and having people address the complex trauma that we often see is really,
 wrongly diagnosed as some other diagnosis, if we can really address that, then the rest of it kind of can fall into place as a treatment provider, right? So there's a lot of components that go into it, but that's kind of our approach, is we really look at what that person needs and we address the barriers so we can change their trajectory, which then changes how much city resources they potentially utilize, which reduces the cost in the long run to the city, which is a benefit. Thanks.
 So, okay. Thank you. Very good. Any public testimony? We have Shedrick Wilkins and Craig Rogers. Very good. Come on up, gentlemen, if you two would like to just pull your heels. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for the presentation. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Craig Rogers. I really...
 I appreciate the work that Officer Mike Gallagher does. I've known Mike for many years. He was our police contact for Mill Park Neighborhood Association. And whatever he gets involved in, he's very committed.
 Mayor Wheeler, as I understand it, one of the places you set your desk up on a corner when you were running for election was in the Montevilla neighborhood. And it's a wonderful business community down there. I do believe that Mike Gallagher was instrumental in cleaning that up. I knew what it looked like before. And it's thriving today, absolutely. What was going on. So this one area that I've come down and continually talked about, that hillside area,
 Mike knows right where that's at. And you see that street, Salmon Street, that's right behind my street. I believe it was probably Backpage.com and car dates going on there, and trading sex for drugs.
 And it was really bad. And I just happened to be down here when Mike's here today. So I always come away from here learning something more, and I really process and digest what happens down here for days. So this has bumped me forward, just being here while Mike's here and learning and listening. So I really support this program that both those people are involved with. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your being here.
 On a state level, I want to say I support the Measure 101, and I'm trying to give you reasons why relating to prostitution. Can you give your name for the record? Oh, Shedrick. Mr. Shedrick. Thank you. And maybe...
 Health care on the Oregon Health Plan is needed. For example, if there is sex trafficking, that person might get a prescription under the Oregon Health Plan for penicillin for things, and that could be amortized if she wishes to file charges or escape this lifestyle. Commissioner Sultzman mentioned about how if they cut people's water off, the children might have dehydration, and that would lead to miscarriage.
 child abuse charges. That's a police issue as well. I'm just saying that when you have the Oregon Health Plan, doctors can examine people, women, children, and we can get some sort of non-subjective things. This doesn't really hurt the person or whatever. A doctor can say, yes, it does hurt a child not to have enough water. Yes, a woman may be having expenses for prescription jugs.
 from diseases from sexual trafficking. So I want to say it's very important that I think Measure 101 passes. There's been cuts federally to health care. And also, too, if it doesn't pass, I really have a real problem. I'm going to talk next month on water.
 Again, I can't really believe in Portland or Oregon in general if you're not getting any medical information. And people shouldn't have to charge for this information. If they charge, they may not report it or get examined, so there's no evidence of anything. So if 101 doesn't pass, it's like you've got a lot of people here that say...
 kids aren't getting enough water or women aren't getting enough medical care. And I have no idea what anybody's talking about because it costs people money to go see a doctor. And if it's free, like for low-income people on the Oregon Health Plan, they can see a doctor and that information could get to the police. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? Please call the roll, Sue, when you get a chance, sir. Fritz.
 Thank you, Commissioner Salsman, for noticing this need and getting this appropriation. It's an amendment to the contract, which is why we can do it in one shot today.
 I would have to just say that preserving the money for this program is the vote that I'm perhaps most proud of in the last nine years on the council. Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fish will remember in 2013 we were cutting $25 million, and Mayor Hales did not include funding for this program in his budget, and so I voted against it and then had to change my vote, and we then appropriated the ongoing money in the full budget adjustment.
 and it's so necessary. People ask why is the city responsible for funding programs for survivors of human trafficking. Isn't that a county service? The answer is yes, and it also does impact police services and public safety, and so that's why it's also a city responsibility. It's not an issue that one jurisdiction can or should take care of all by themselves. It's not only intergovernmental,
 public jurisdictions, but it's also requiring a community response. I have previously been kind of averse to the concept of the so-called John School for sex buyers. The presentation you gave today, Officer Gallagher, noting that so much of this sex buying has now gone off the street and into the internet and into back rooms.
 the program making the buyers get together and see each other as well as see the women and giving the women an opportunity for the restorative justice of sharing their stories and how it's impacted them. That now I understand is more of a holistic approach and is perhaps even more needed today than in the past. So thank you for coming to explain that. And thank you for all that you do. Hi. Fish. Hi. Sassman.
 Well, I want to thank my colleagues for supporting this effort. As I said, this is not a failure of the city. We continue to provide funding, and we did have one brief hiccup there, which Commissioner Fritz ably took care of in 2013. But what's happening really is the federal government is stepping back from its commitment. I mean, I can't put words in their mouths, but this is what seems to be going on.
 we need to make sure that this service is so critical that so many women in our community is preserved. I just want to thank LifeWorks for their great service. I want to really thank Officer Mike Gallagher for his great service to the citizens of our city and the residents of our city and his focus and attention on sex trafficking is both commendable and very much appreciated by all of us up here.
 And I just want to close by thanking Tia Williams of my office for sort of taking this issue and not letting it, the lack of federal funding coming through, and not letting it get in the way of us acting here today to appropriate some money from our contingency fund. She was the set of ears that really heard LifeWorks and sort of set in motion the wheels that are leading to the decision we're making today to step up with our funding. So thanks to Tia as well.
 You daily. Thanks for the presentation.
 Wheeler? Well, this is a great program, and I'm the Johnny-come-lately here, but Commissioner Saltzman, I certainly read about your efforts around this program a number of years ago, and I think it's a fantastic program. And LifeWorks is really one of the great service providers in our community. Kristen, thank you for coming in and presenting the NOW program. It is a wonderful program, and
 It truly targets the most vulnerable of the vulnerable in our community and gives them hope and gives them an opportunity for something better. And Officer Gallagher, thanks. You're yet another example of somebody who works for the Bureau, who just does fantastic work.
 Often it is thankless, and sometimes it's less than thankless, but it is duly appreciated here. So thank you for your leadership. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 25.
 Item 25, amend contract with Convergence Architecture to increase contract amount by $25,180 to provide additional architecture and engineering services for the 1900 building restroom upgrade project.
 Very good. Good afternoon. Good morning. Still morning. Barely. Good morning, Commissioners. Good morning, Mayor. My name is Randy Selleck, Construction Project Manager with OMF. I have with me Elshad Hajiev, Senior Business Operations Manager with BDS. This amendment is for our 1900 building restroom upgrade project. We have an addition request from BDS to...
 have finishes be included in the project originally in our ADA project. It was really just addressing the ADA needs as well as energy efficiency.
 Doing that, we have affected a lot of the restrooms. They'll be getting new sinks, new counters, and it was brought to our attention that perhaps we should consider a renovation or remodel of the restrooms. We got a ballpark estimate from the architect to make a decision on that, and BDS decided they would like to pay for it and move forward. So this amendment is for the design services for finishes. Okay.
 for $5,180. I'm also including a $20,000 ad, should we need it, for future on the design project. We are getting close with this finishes portion to finishing our construction documents with the hope that we'll be able to place it out to bid in the spring. Any questions? I don't see any. That was very succinct. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? No.
 Very good. Please call the roll. Prince. Thank you for your work. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Sossman. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you for your patience as well. So we had five presentations today where the same guy was asking, when do you guys discuss these things in public? And he gets up and he leaves when we're actually having the public discussion. It's my toilets. Nobody's interested in my toilets. I have no doubt he'll be back next week wondering why we're approving these things. At any rate, I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much for your work on this.
 this. Next item, 26, please. 26. Authorize the Director of Environmental Services to amend the administrative order on consent with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to perform remedial design work at River Mile 11E in the Portland Harbor Superfund site. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. This ordinance moves a portion of the Portland Harbor Superfund site forward.
 with the next step of the cleanup process, which is the remedial design. River Mile 11 East is a 38-acre area south of the Fremont Bridge. It has been the site of 100 years of industrial activity. Six parties, including the City of Portland, are working with the Environmental Protection Agency to move the cleanup forward. And today I welcome Cindy Riles, Portland Harbor Technical Program Manager from the Bureau of Environmental Services, to give us a brief presentation. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Cindy Riles with the Bureau of Environmental Services. Thank you for the opportunity to present some of the details of this project to you today. Hopefully I'll be brief.
 Many people are already familiar with the Portland Harbor Superfund site. It's a chemical cleanup of the Willamette River that extends from the Soviet Island to about the Broadway Bridge. And EPA issued a cleanup plan for this 10-mile stretch of river last January. Thank you.
 Because of the number of parties involved and the complexity of the site, some areas within the larger Superfund site will be moving forward with the next phase of cleanup ahead of the others. One of these areas is called the River Mali-Lebanese Project Area, and that's what I'm here to talk with you about.
 If you look at the map on this slide, river miles start at zero, where the Willamette meets up with the Columbia. And so river mile 11 is at the far upriver end of the entire Superfund site on the east side of the river.
 The River Mile 11 East Area consists of nearly 38 acres of river bottom and shoreline. It's hosted a wide variety of industrial facilities and overwater operations, in addition to many ongoing industrial and marine operations.
 It holds historic significance to the city as the location of the former Albina Engine and Machine Works, which was an active shipyard until the mid-1950s, including building or repairing over 25 vessels for the U.S. Army and over 170 vessels for the U.S. Navy, primarily during World War II. So here's an aerial modern-day photo of the site, just to kind of help you orient where these activities will be taking place.
 You can see the Fremont Bridge at the bottom right-hand corner of the photo. The red bridge is the Broadway Bridge. In the far upper right-hand corner of the photo is Big Pink on the edge of downtown. And on the steel bridge to the left of the steel bridge, you can kind of make out Duckworth Duck in there. And so the site that we are talking about is 
 is where these ships are, kind of in the center of the photo. And the site extends from the Fremont Bridge to almost the edge of where those ships are docked. So this is the satellite image of the exact project site, as agreed upon with EPA. Again, it's on the east side of the river, right around the Fremont Bridge. So who is doing this work? We have creatively called ourselves the River Mile 11 East Group. This is a group of...
 five other people in addition to the city who have either now or in the past owned property or have business operations in the vicinity of the project area. These aren't the only parties that fit that criteria, but these parties have agreed to work together with EPA to do additional work in this area that supplements the larger harbor-wide work currently going on. The six parties that make up the River Mall 11 East Group are the City of Portland,
 Pacificor, Cargill, Glacier Northwest, Dill Trust, and CBS Corporation. In 2013, when this group formed, they signed an agreement with EPA to begin the supplemental environmental activities, and that work is expected to wrap up this spring. So we're requesting authorization now to amend the existing agreement with EPA to add on additional work that will keep the cleanup moving forward.
 So I'm going to take a quick step back and talk a little bit about the big picture of the Superfund site and the Superfund process. The colored shapes in this slide represent each of the major phases of Superfund cleanup, and along the top of the slide are the dates as they apply to the Portland Harbor Superfund site.
 It was listed as a Superfund site in the year 2000. Studies to understand both how contaminated the river was and how it might be cleaned up concluded in 2016. In 2017, EPA issued a cleanup plan specific to the harbor.
 And now in 2018, we're ready for two major new phases of the project, one of them being baseline monitoring, which will be used to gauge the success of the remedy moving forward, and the other one is designing those remedies throughout the harbor. It makes sense that the harbor be broken down into smaller areas for efficiency and for a number of technical reasons. And so that's what I'm here to talk about is design,
 designing a remedy for one area of the larger Superfund site. Once that design is complete, the construction of the remedy will occur, and then long-term monitoring will occur to make sure that the remedy is working. Meanwhile, we also have a lot of moving pieces that have been happening this whole time at the bottom of the slide, including making sure that upland sources of contamination are not reaching the river, community engagement activities, and redevelopment activities. Thank you.
 The cost of the remedial design at River Mali-Lebanese is estimated to be $3 to $4 million over the next three to four years, but this is dependent on EPA approvals and requirements. The design of environmental remedies of this complexity often start out with several unknowns that need to be refined along the way. We'll not know the cost of construction of the remedy until we're further along into the design.
 So the amendment that's the subject of the ordinance is based on an EPA requirement to complete the design for the cleanup of the project area. Some of the current unknowns that will be fleshed out during the process include figuring out design challenges such as active docks, steep banks, submerged debris, future dredging needs, consideration of bridges, and submarine power cables. Okay.
 This is a map from EPA's cleanup plan for the area that includes River Mile 11 East. You'll see the Fremont Bridge kind of in the middle of the map. So this map actually extends well beyond the project area that this group is working in. We'll be working on the focus will be on the outline I showed in the previous slide, which is mostly the yellow and green areas in this map.
 EPA's cleanup plan provides a general framework with which to move forward with remedial design. The green areas in this map are proposed capping areas, the yellow are proposed dredge areas, and the kind of peach color is monitored natural recovery. And as the design progresses, this plan may be refined to fit within the limitations specific to River Mali-Lebanese based on the design challenges I just mentioned.
 So in conclusion, we're really excited about moving forward with this project. Can you hold this picture for a second? Colleagues, when Cindy previewed this PowerPoint, in some ways I thought this was the most striking photograph that she put in here. And I just want to call your attention to the fact that, unlike the other slides she put in here previously, which showed industrial activity in the lower left-hand corner,
 That is actually what the Albina neighborhood looked like pre-urban renewal. So when there have been these conversations about this larger vision mayor for the Rose Quarter and thinking about how to go from Blanchard north and create a new street grid and reconnect the community,
 That's what the Albina neighborhood looked like when it was single-family homes and streets and other things before urban renewal came and turned most of the area on the bottom left into an industrial area and, of course, the Rose Garden and Memorial Coliseum and other things. I've not seen this picture before, and I think it's just striking. And I think one of the questions that we'll be asking over the next few years is, what's
 as part of a proposed Rose Quarter vision, are we committed to restoring the old neighborhoods and the integrity of the Albina District as reflected in this extraordinary photograph? So thank you, Cindy. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer any questions you have. Colleagues, any questions? Public testimony?
 No one signed up? Nobody's signed up. Well, then I'll just make a comment. I think this is great. And Commissioner Fish, I know that I've enjoyed a strong partnership with you on the Superfund issues. And while it is a daunting project, I also have to say it's been fun and it's been interesting. And this is what I believe...
 begins the real tangible aspect of our work. And as I looked at your lengthy timeline at the beginning of the slide, we're getting to the point where we're actually starting to do the work, and that is exciting. And I want to thank you, Commissioner Fish, in particular for that. Thank you for your great work on this. Thank you. We'll call the roll. Fritz. It is indeed exciting, and congratulations. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, and also, Mayor, for your support. Aye.
 Fish? When Mr. Kelly, Albert Kelly, was in town recently, special assistant to the EPA administrator, a former banker from Oklahoma, when Mr. Kelly was here, he reminded us that the EPA has a genuine sense of urgency about moving these Superfund sites. That same sense of urgency is not shared in some other areas of their jurisdiction in things that we care about.
 but they have decided to put some resources behind moving the Superfund plans. I believe that Portlanders expect us to start showing some tangible results, and one way we do that is that we complete the planning process. We get in the river and we start doing the cleanup.
 And, Mayor, if you're going to continue to insist on swimming in this leg of the river, I think the sooner we get it cleaned up, the better. But I'm very pleased with the partnership that we have to do the work, and I want to especially call out Annie Von Berg, who's here, who is our point person, the whole team at BES, our esteemed legal counsel. We have a number of lawyers providing great work on this. And I want to thank Amira Streeter on my team,
 That's my lawyer and Sonja Schmansky and others in the office who have been working on this. I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman. Well, it is indeed gratifying to see some actual...
 I don't know if shovel on the ground is the right analogy, but we actually seem like we're poised to actually do some work, and that's a good thing because this has been a long process, too long in my opinion. So thank you, Commissioner Fish, for bringing us to this point, and thanks to BES for doing the great work here. Hi. Eudaly. Thank you for the presentation. It's very exciting to see a first step. Well, I guess it's not a first step.
 But, yeah, shovel in the ground, whatever we're going to call it. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Last item is the second reading. Please call Item 27. Item 27, assess benefited properties for street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Southeast 86th Court. Okay.
 And Steel Street Local Improvement District. This is an item that the council has previously deliberated. We've taken public testimony. This is a second reading only. Call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Fossman. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted and we are adjourned. There is not a meeting this afternoon or...
 tomorrow due to lack of agenda. So nobody needs to show up. We are adjourned.