Hey folks, we're ready to have the meeting. Good morning everyone. Welcome to the January 6th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll?
 Ritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone. Happy New Year. Our first order of business before we begin the council calendar is to elect a new council president, because we do that every six months. I believe a motion to elect Commissioner Fish to that role is in order. So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? Roll call, please. Thank you.
 fritz very sad to be giving up the enormous power of being president of the council hi fish i'm humbled by this vote of confidence hi saltzman hi novick commissioner serve well i'm sure that you will aye hails hi thank you all right congratulations commissioner fish um
 And we'll move on to the council calendar. Welcome those who are here to speak. Looks like we don't have a large audience today, so we shouldn't have trouble accommodating people who wish to speak. If you're here to testify on a council item, please sign up or let the clerk know when we get to that item if you're interested in speaking on it. We typically allow three minutes for people to speak, and there shouldn't be any difficulty accommodating that.
 today. We exercise the courtesies of good discourse in this room, so if you agree with someone who wants to, sorry, if you agree with someone who's speaking and want to indicate that, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand, and if you disagree with them, you're welcome to give them a thumbs down or some other polite gesture, but we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations or applause in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view in this room so everyone can be heard. We make exceptions for students'
 and visitors when they're here, but in general, we try to let everyone have their say in a quiet and orderly way in this room. We appreciate your help with that.
 We have some council communications where citizens have signed up for time to speak on topics of their choosing. We'll take that first, and then we have the rest of the council business in front of us. We have a consent calendar, and I don't believe I've had any requests to move things off of consent and to regular calendar, right? None? Okay. Let's move ahead then, please, with communications item number one. Okay.
 Request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding too big to fail. Good morning and welcome. Good morning, council. Get to be number one this year. That's a high privilege. Really? The first one. Got a real tossed salad here. Good morning, council. My name is Craig Rogers. And Commissioner Steve Novick, you always make me happy when I drive down the road. And recently I was in East Portland on Halsey. There's one I hadn't seen, the Winky Blinky.
 crosswalk that catches people's attention and again you're in the business of saving lives and i'd like to thank you and your pbot team so too big to fail where does that come from that comes from the original street fee as i'd say no vote no oversight no sunset the cornerstone is styrofoam and it could be raised at any time spin on anything and go on forever okay and it was important for me to see that stop
 It was in a hurry. It's like you see people do shell games, and they move those walnuts around real fast. They can't keep track. Everybody has their gifts. Perhaps maybe it's semantics with words or something. And we need to slow things down. Pay attention to detail of just what those words are that are contained within these important things that happen down here. And I'm looking at the city club here.
 and they say for nearly 30 years Portland has tried and failed. Well, quite frankly, it's my understanding that the money was always there, but it went to shiny things, as outlined here in this Oregonian article, The Politics of Potholes. So I think we need to pay attention to where the money goes when the money's already there. And deferring maintenance is fiscally irresponsible. Well,
 What's fiscally irresponsible is spending it on shiny things other than the maintenance. So I think we really need to slow things down. Again, this report, it's about hurry, hurry, hurry, and I agree. We do need it now. It's kind of like when somebody said, when should you have planted a tree? And somebody says, 20 years ago. So we need this, but it needs to be done properly. It needs to be done. It takes two wings to fly. Down here, it's kind of like you've been flying on one wing.
 We need the other wing, fiscal responsibility. If you're flying on one wing, you go in circles and you crash. I don't see the fiscal responsibility. When I communicate to people, I say, we stock the shelves, give away the store. They're like those ducks with a glass of water in front that are going down like that. Everybody agrees. We stock the shelves, give away the store. We stock the shelves, give away the store. So...
 Here we have a member of council saying confidence through fuel pass. Details not important. They are important. The devil's in the details that if you want to do something evil, you put it in something boring. So I think we need to pay attention to what's going on here. Things hinge on one word. The reason why that Paris agreement is so weak.
 because of one word. And it was the United States that went in there to weaken that thing with one word, where should implies maybe, shall is legal. Well, shall was dropped because other countries that couldn't afford it or whatever wanted the weaker one, and it was the United States that discovered that. Thank you for your time, apparently. Oh, I still got 22 minutes left. No, actually, you're over, Craig. Thank you very much. 22, 22 seconds.
 Thank you. I tried to talk about that. That's it. We're paying attention to what happens here. Good to hear from you. Thank you. Okay, item number two. Request of Crystal Elinsky to address counsel regarding police misconduct. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Nick Fish, Dan Saltzman, Charlie Hales, Amanda Fritz, and Steve Novick. My name is Crystal Elinsky. And, Craig, that was well said. Thank you.
 Last time I meant to speak here was about a very similar topic, and so even though police misconduct is related, I will refer to that a bit. Essentially, so today I'm Crystal Elinsky, representing myself and looking at the dismal circumstances that we find ourselves in. Bureau of Transportation is especially on its feet. Parks, we...
 we need to send our representatives thousands of miles away with fossil fuels to go and learn how to be like a white man or get a lecture from the Pope on what we can do for global warming. And I did notice that about the Paris climate talks, especially the fact that ISIS came up very often and everyone thought it would. But when we're having a global war, that's the worst thing we can do to planet Earth, Pachamama.
 It's such a waste for us to be sending our representatives and our people over thousands of miles to have a conference, you know, something they could have in a conference call when nothing really gets done here at home. As I try to get here with the circumstances we live under, the vast majority of people in this city are living in horrible conditions, horrible conditions.
 To even get down here to City Hall is a feat in and of itself. Not just because of snowpocalypse or the sinkhole that closes off our street. And the older people and the people that are disabled that move there because they're right next to a bus. It's like six months they're going to be without it. And as you go down...
 along these bus lines and these tracks, and you see people who just don't care anymore throwing their Starbucks coffee cups and their cigarette butts into the MAX train tracks, and even the signs on the MAX are just crumbling away. It just looks like some sort of... Just our city just looks really... I don't know what kind of a bubble that you five live in, but when I come here, I hear a lot of this...
 You know, let's thank ourselves for being such a great green city and whatnot. And we're going downhill fast. We could have foreseen this influx. We could have foreseen problems with ISIS. I was sitting on the bus with a 14-year-old a while back. And we look out, it's coming along the number 16, and we look out at the...
 Train tracks, he said, this is why I want to leave this country. It was going on for a few miles of war machines being sent to Syria. The day that I got dragged out of City Hall and tortured...
 underneath the federal building across the street, I was going to talk about Syria. Why are we involved with Syria? Why are we sending our war machines? Why are we allowing fossil fuels to go through our city? Yes, I congratulate you for standing up on that, but I want to see some results. I want to stop these war planes flying over us all the time. It's disgusting. It costs $1,000 a minute to fly an F-16 over. There goes my month's wages. There's my year's wages. Thanks, Crystal. Take care. And police, my God, don't even get me started. Okay, thank you.
 item number three request of ken thrasher to address council regarding college possible come on
 Good morning. Just pull that microphone back down into range there, if you would. All right. Thank you very much. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Ken Thrasher, Chair of the Board of College Possible, and today with me, Paige Hill is here to kind of personalize what we do as one of our great team members. Happy New Year. And I want to first thank you for all the investments you've made in key quality education initiatives each year, putting about a half a million dollars in those key initiatives annually. And I think this year is a great opportunity to invest, I think, in College Possible.
 There's a number of reasons why. As we think about the city of opportunity and some of your key strategies, we currently serve 400 low-income, first-generation, diverse students, 75% diverse, 400 kids in college, 130 in our first graduating class, and we serve about 1,000 ninth and tenth graders with college awareness courses. And when you look at the work we're doing in getting these kids to go to college and graduate from four-year colleges, our report card is exceptional.
 We had a 25% increase in ACT scores last year of the students that graduated. Ninety-five percent were accepted into college, and 90% of those accepted went immediately to college and were working on the rest to get there. We're going to mentor these kids for up to six years while they're in college, and they will graduate from college at a 10-to-1 ratio versus their peers that don't go through College Possible. So we really are making a difference.
 And I think as you look at the opportunity for the city and the five key priorities, opportunity, using AmeriCorps, we set high expectations for our students, not low expectations. Equity, we're serving primarily the kids that you want to have served from diverse populations and low-income families.
 Geography, we're serving the most difficult area of the cities in the six high schools and five school districts we serve today. Immigrants, we're serving a number of immigrants and second language learners and families and helping them integrate into this community.
 And leverage. We're leveraging your investment in a number of ways in a public-private partnership, but also allowing us to address issues like housing and homelessness with kids that may end up in that place if we don't break the cycle of poverty. And we know that for every kid we can keep out of poverty over five generations, roughly 200 of their descendants will also be affected. So the leverage we're creating is tremendous. And so I wanted Paige maybe just to give you just a brief overview
 Feeling about what it's like to be a student and what we do for them So I'll yield my remaining seconds to her
 My name is Patrilla. I've been with College Possible for four years, and in that time I've been really lucky to be part of hundreds of what we call ripples, which is when we work with one student, we set forth a ripple of hope that impacts a lot of other people besides just that student. And one of my favorite ripples is my student, Quentin. Quentin, I worked with him two years ago, and he rolled into session a little bit late because he was at wrestling practice yesterday,
 And I was working with another student, so I gave him something to do while I caught up with another student. And I gave him a list of scholarships for high school juniors. And I said, just pick three that you want to apply for. I'll come talk with you in a second. So he got to work.
 He was quiet for a little bit, and then he piped up, and I wrote it down, what he said two years ago. And he said, when I have kids, I'm going to make them do this. I'm going to find scholarships for kindergartners and just do that for every year that they're in school. Quentin's now a college freshman, and we're definitely still in touch. And I know that he's going to invite me to his graduation in a few years. But I'm even more excited to go to his kids' college graduation when they become graduates, just like their dad. Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Thank you. Good to hear from you. Appreciate it.
 Okay, let's take item number four, please. Request of David Keith Davis to address council regarding homeless suite, homeless state of emergency. Morning. So I'm here representing Multnomah County Cop Watch and also Fight the Sweeps Committee.
 I see a lot of these sweeps still going on, and I think a lot of it is because of you still have city contracts with Clean and Safe and Pacific Patrol and all these other different groups like Positive Action Cleaning and all this other stuff. And I think that's conflicting with the homeless state of emergency. So I don't know how you guys are going to handle this, but you need to...
 you know, cancel your contracts or alter them. And so homeless people aren't getting swept through these old existing contracts. And also, you know, everyone's all patting you guys on the back for letting one more city-sanctioned homeless camp stay at Hazelnut Grove, which is, you know, only has a capacity of 40 people. You know, that's hardly worth a big amount of praise if –
 that's all you've done in the last, uh, you know, years of your office when you've basically overpriced the city for a lot of people. And, uh,
 So it's hardly making a dent. I hope you'll start opening at least five or ten more city-sanctioned homeless camps and actually really make a dent instead of a minor league little dent. And also the Hazelnut Grove situation, I saw it actually expand city land, and you guys get ODOT land, and then it expands your police powers to evict the homeless campers.
 that aren't on the Hazelnut Grove turf. And basically, the Hazelnut Grove camp is already on city land, so I kind of see it as a legal ODOT land grab to expand police powers. And there's a lot of different things you could do to actually change the situation with homelessness. There's a thing called hot teams in other cities where they send out...
 homeless outreach teams with various agencies when they go out with the police and, um,
 have contact with homeless people, and they offer them services and other stuff. And by people constantly being swept around, it really makes it hard for service agencies to actually go provide services to the homeless people when they can't even find the people they're trying to service. And there's another thing also. If you guys are going to have the police do a lot of outreach...
 and contact with homeless people all the time, you might want to train them too in actually knowing how to navigate the social services of our city because they give out these little green pamphlets that have about nine addresses on it, and that's about all they do. And, you know, if you actually get some people to train them,
 You know, so they actually know the various services and how... Because, you know, Cascadia is good for mental health. Joyne's good for people that have jobs. Clean and Safe's good for... I mean, Central City Concern, they're good for people that have drug addictions that are willing to jump through the hoops. And, you know, they...
 The police don't really know much of that stuff. Good suggestion. Thank you very much. And they need to know, like... You need to close now. They need to know, like, details so they can actually be... Okay, good. Thank you very much. Okay, item number five. Request of Irene LeBeau to address counsel regarding humane solutions to being houseless. Hello, are you here? All right, we'll give her another opportunity. Let's move on then to item number six. Okay.
 Oh, sorry, consent calendar. Ah, did it again. No, yeah, New Year. We've got to make the mistake once a year at least. If I can keep it down to once a year, that'd be great. No requests to take things off the consent calendar. Roll call on the consent calendar, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Novick? Hales? Aye. Okay. And now we'll move to time certain item number six. Okay.
 recognize the important role of text messaging in providing excellent and inclusive 911 service and support the Bureau of Emergency Communications efforts to work with the State of Oregon to implement text to 911 in Portland and Multnomah County. Commissioner Nowick. Colleagues, I'm pleased to bring you to today a resolution stating council support for the Bureau of Emergency Communications efforts to implement text to 911 here in Portland and throughout our region.
 Text to 911 is just what it sounds like. It allows people to text 911 during an emergency and receive police, medical, or fire help. Texting 911 is incredibly important for people in certain situations. The most obvious one is people who are hearing impaired. But it's also important for people who are in a situation where if somebody heard them speaking and asking for help, it would increase the danger to them.
 This could include people facing domestic violence or people who simply think that there's a burglar in their house and don't want the burglar to hear them calling 911. Any of us could find ourselves in a situation where making a voice call to 911 could put us in greater danger. Text to 911 makes it easy to access help, but it isn't possible to call.
 The federal government signed off on allowing public safety access points in the U.S. to move forward with text to 911 a couple of years ago, and jurisdictions have been moving forward with different speeds with this initiative. Here in Portland, the city and the rest of our metropolitan region are leading our state in implementing this innovative technology. I'm very pleased that leadership at BOEC recognized the opportunity to move forward with implementation even when the state of Oregon, which has been looking at this issue, has decided they need more time to do something statewide. Thank you.
 I wanted to bring this resolution to council today to call attention to this important initiative, both within city government and in the public. With that, I'll turn it over to Lisa Turley and Laura Wolf of the Bureau of Emergency Communications for a staff presentation. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning. My name is Lisa Turley, and I am the Director of the Bureau of Emergency Communications.
 As Commissioner Novick stated, we are here today to introduce you to our Text to 911 project. The goal of my brief remarks is to give you some information about how and why BOIC became engaged in this project. About 10 years ago, the 911 industry began talking seriously about this thing called Next Gen 911.
 Basically, this describes a total shift of 911 service from analog to digital equipment network devices, allowing text, video, and sensory feeds to access 911 centers. This is a process very similar to the television digital switch mandated by the FCC back in 2009. The state of Oregon 911 office is the lead agency in providing 911 services to our citizens and was in charge of making this project happen.
 After several fits and starts by the state about how they would approach this project, and it is a huge project, and with different RFP drafts and approaches over the years, in December 2014, at a statewide 911 managers meeting, our community was advised that the state was regrouping and turning the project over to the Department of Administrative Services to manage. The final anticipated completion date was moved from the original 2016 estimate to something closer to 2020 or further out.
 At that point, I realized that BOEC, the City of Portland, and Multnomah County could not wait that long to ensure that all of the members of our community were able to access our services. Additional urgency for this project was added when the state of Washington announced that they would roll out support for TEXA 911 statewide during 2015 and 2016. Having jurisdictions right across the river, and especially with our fluid border, it became very apparent that we needed to take action pretty quickly.
 Although I knew that we could not provide the infrastructure to support all of the functionality of NextGen, the option for text-to-911 was there and actually quite doable and affordable. We began reaching out to our partners in the Portland Dispatch Center Consortium
 to see which other 911 centers were interested in moving forward with us and fortunately everyone in our group plus some other centers committed to our project laura wolf boeck's external liaison is here to give you more information about that work effort good morning mayor hailes commissioners i'm laura wolf with the city of portland 911 center first of all i'd like to acknowledge leslie taylor who was not able to be with us today she's the director of lake oswego 911 and has taken the project lead on this
 Along with BOAC, the PDCC, the Portland Dispatch Center Consortium, is comprised of representatives from the 911 centers in Columbia County, Clark County, Clackamas County, Lake Oswego, and Washington County. In addition to the PDCC partners, Astoria 911 and Woodburn 911 are joining us in this effort.
 The PDCC determined as a group the need to be on the same system, one which will allow us to seamlessly transfer call data from one 911 center to another. This is especially critical when the caller is moving from one jurisdiction to another. After reviewing different vendor products, we selected a company which will allow us to do that. Acting on behalf of the PDCC, Washington County 911's Purchasing and Legal Council, they are coordinating the procurement and contract process with the vendor.
 Once that has been completed, the State of Oregon 911 program will reimburse us for that money. It will be through the PDCC. The system is web-based, which requires very little technical work to install. However, we want to ensure that we are prepared both internally and externally with staff training, policies and procedures, and public education.
 We anticipate that the text to 911 will be operational within the next six months. However, we will do a soft launch first to iron out anything before we publicize its availability to the public. We have a subcommittee working together to put a good public education campaign together, and our primary message will be call when you can, text when you can't. I'll be happy to answer you any questions, and thank you for your support. Thank you. Questions?
 Who is the vendor for the product? Commissioner Fritz, it's TCS. We looked at several of them. There are not very many in the business that do this type of off-the-shelf, but we went through a lot of processes. And how does it interact with our Versatron dispatch system? Okay.
 It'll be fine. We make sure that it'll interact with every CAD system there. It can take the call of data and transfer it into the CAD system. Terrific. And how much is it going to cost? For the city of Portland, for a year, it's $15,000 or less. It's not very much. And that's getting reimbursed by the state as well, right? Yes. There will be no outlay from the city of Portland. That's fantastic. So it's a pretty insignificant cost in what it can do for the community. Thank you for your work.
 So the text call comes in and goes into the queue along with the voice calls. Correct. The computer system will put that in train with all the other calls that are coming in. Correct. It'll present itself in a different web browser, but it'll be there on a call taker screen when they log in. It'll log into that system as well. Oh, so actually the call takers have to be watching two streams of incoming calls as opposed to one? Yeah.
 The 911 phone call drops into their ear, so that is an auditory queue, whereas this will be a visual queue. But, yes, they will be accessing two different feeds. It's not like they only have one screen in front of them. I get that. They have, like, seven. About ten. Okay. They're already pretty good at multitasking, I understand. Right. It'll be a small window on one of those screens they already have. Is there capacity in the system for the texting back to be done by dictation rather than typing it in?
 I don't know the answer. Not yet, maybe. I don't think, I think not yet. I don't know that answer, but I think the intent is to be able to type back. You know, we have, for the hearing impaired and deaf, we have a TTY that comes up, and so it's the same principle as just being able to type back and forth. And might this increase the opportunities for employment for people with hearing disabilities that we might, if it starts to catch on and a lot more people start using text rather than voice, what it might be?
 potentially be possible to employ more people at the 911 center to manage that system? Depending on the number of calls we receive on this, we might be able to have one position designated to do just the texting application. Thank you. I have a follow-up question. With the texting capacity, will people be able to, if they want, attach a photograph to the text and send that in?
 That is not yet. That is part of the NextGen package. This is merely text. But NextGen does involve where somebody could be photographing or videotaping something and then it gets sent to the 911. And I think, Lisa, I don't know what percentage of your calls that come in are people that just want to put you on notice of something. I just saw someone and it was a person who
 And where a text and a photograph might be all that the person needs to do and doesn't need a return. Yeah, we look forward to NextGen 911. And quite frankly, we're very disappointed that it is not coming to fruition at this point because there is all kinds of clothing can have sensors to it. And so your clothes would be able to notify the center that you're having a heart attack. I mean, there's that kind of functionality, but we have to wait for the infrastructure. Sure.
 And is this just for 911, or is it for the non-emergency number as well? It's just for 911. Any other questions? Thank you both very much. I know you have some panels that you want to call, Commissioner. Yes, Mayor. We have two panels of invited testimony. I'd like to start by asking LaVon Hester and Terry Blosser from the Portland Commission on Disability to come up to testify. Two people with visual limitations trying to navigate. Good morning.
 Good morning. I'm just going to go ahead and start us off. My name is LaVonne Heaster. I'm the chair of the Portland Commission on Disability. I know you all know that, but they may not. I'd like to bring you greetings from the Commission. We feel very passionately about this. We think it will have an impact on our community, but it also has a broader impact, and Terry will talk more about that.
 We were so excited that we even have someone who's going to be from our commission who will be providing testimony during the public testimony. So thank you, Sue. For us, there's an importance of people with disabilities are oftentimes left out or they're –
 Things are taken up when it can be a big win and everyone can feel sorry for, and like they've done something great for those poor people, those poor victims. And one of the things that has happened here is that
 With the Commission on Disability and with the work that we're doing with you City Council over the years, we have been really changing to be having great treatment of with dignity of people with disabilities. So coming in, asking our opinion about this, asking us to voice what's important here is very important because
 We will be impacted. Our community will be impacted. I remember going to Mexico a couple of years ago with a friend, and she wandered off because this is what she does. But I remember being really freaked out because the only Spanish I know is from my childhood, and it's the commands. Things like that from my mother. And so I was like, how do I contact the police if I don't find her in a couple of hours? And this is what people oftentimes live with,
 every day when someone has maybe cerebral palsy, and so they speak in a way that's not clear, when someone is deaf and things like that. And so what you are doing by being a city that listens, and really what Lisa was saying about we couldn't wait.
 This is important. This is what the city of Portland is great at and what I'm so proud to be on the Commission on Disability, but also just to be a citizen of this city is because you're listening and you're saying, we can't wait. We can't.
 continue to do things the way they've been done just because they're being done that way. But we have to move forward. We have to bring access into the forefront. We have to do it whether it's easy or not. Obviously, it hasn't been easy for the state, and it's not going to be easy here. But you're saying, okay, let's pare it down a little bit, and let's take the first step because we can't wait.
 And I just want to thank you very much for that and say how important it is for us on the Commission that you continue to make those movements and say, we can't wait. You are important. Your access to basic services means something to us. Excellent. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning. How are you? Good. Nice to have you here this morning. Good. Thank you. And this is Bryson. Hi.
 So anyhow, I just thought I'd introduce Gryphon to you guys. He also had an opportunity at one point to visit the U.S. Senate chambers, and he laid down at Senator Harry Reid's desk and made a nice little mess there, rubbing his hair all over the place. Anyhow, so I just thought I'd introduce him. So he's a Democrat then. Yeah.
 Actually, it was interesting because we went there as part of a Washington experience when I was going through the Executive Master's of Public Administration program at the Hatfield School of Government. So we went there and met Mike Kennedy, who is Senator Hatfield's Chief of Staff. So it was really interesting. It was a real good experience for all of us, including Bryson. Anyhow, good morning, City Commissioners and Mayor Hale.
 My name is Terry Blosser. I represent the Portland Commission on Disability in this matter. Being that I am legally blind and legally deaf, I identify as deafblind and feel that through lived experience I can testify on the text of 9-1-1 legislation. Who would benefit from such a service and what we've already heard before is that the deaf, the hard of hearing, those with speech impediments and interesting enough as you heard before even hearing people
 who are required or are in a situation where it requires complete silence and they're unable to voice their concerns or call situations like domestic violence cases or somebody else mentioned to break in things like that as it stands right now the current 911 system has barriers which affects people who are deaf hard of hearing or have a speech impediment an emergency situation they're presently required
 to enlist another or to have tools immediately available to them to communicate such as a T2Y, which some of you may be aware. It looks like a little computer keyboard and you put your phone on top of it to be able to communicate. And in an emergency situation, it's not always going to be available to an individual to be able to communicate. And as we know, that this situation is not always doable or workable.
 having the texas 911 implemented will remediate this significant barrier and more importantly it'll provide what we call universal access to all people other cities also have implemented such a program such as austin texas they plan to have theirs operational by june of this year san antonio dallas arlington texas houston they all have it are implemented
 Boulder County in Colorado has even posted an informational video on YouTube about their 911 text to 911 system. Some of the success stories regarding the text to 911, in Los Angeles, there was a story reported in December last year about a deaf lady who was experiencing symptoms of a stroke. She was able to text to 911, and an ambulance was there within minutes. And she got to the hospital, and they were able to take care of her.
 And she was quoted in the news article as saying, she said here, if you don't have anyone to call for you and you have a cell phone, this will actually save your life. In closing, providing universal access to all has its benefits.
 As you heard, it not only provides a way for people with disabilities who are deaf, hard of hearing, or those with speech impediments, but also it helps another segment of our society, people who are hearing and people who are victims of domestic violence, and individuals who are unable to communicate via phone.
 We all benefit from having universal access. Let's do the right thing and fund this project and get it implemented as soon as we can. Thank you very kindly. Thank you. Thank you both. Any questions for our commission members? Thanks very much. We appreciate your involvement with us. Thank you so much. Okay, I think you have another panel, Commissioner. We have one more panel. We have Donna Nicklin from the Oregon Association of the Deaf and Mark Hill of the Supreme Court Policy and Deaf Organization. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioner and Mayor Hales. My name is Mark Hill, and I'm the president of the Cerebral Policy and Deaf Organization, CPADO. I'm also a resident here in Portland, Oregon. That's better. CPADO fully supports the resolution on the implementation of the text-to-911 system in the metro Portland area.
 CPADO is one of the members of the consumer group at the national level, such as the National Association of the Deaf , the Hearing Loss Association of America , the Telecommunications for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing Incorporated ,
 and many other national organizations of and for the deaf. We have been working with the Federal Communications Commission, FCC, and the Department of Justice on the implementation of text to 911 in the country. We acknowledge that the timing of the implementation requires us to update the 911 system. I commend the Portland Metropolitan 911 Center to take action. Only a few who have text to 911 systems in America before the full actions.
 Sharing a discussion at the consumer group that we had with the city commission, I don't recall if this was a true story, but I can tell you a story that may impact our lives. It was about a break-in incident at a home. A woman heard someone breaking in and ran to a closet. She couldn't speak because she had to be quiet, and fortunately she had a smartphone. Okay.
 She couldn't call via voice and feared that a thief may hear her voice. So she texted to a 911 center through SMS and stayed calm until police arrived. It shows how useful... I want to add something. So the text in 911... Sorry, one second for the interpreter. Oh, the use of TTYs have been radically reduced. Go ahead. Okay. I was trying to say that...
 The use of TTYs have been really reduced because more and more people are now using smartphones, and they also use video phones also, video relay, and that's called VRS, which means that I call someone using my video phone and that dispatches to a sign language interpreter, and the interpreter speaks for me while I'm signing. So in the future...
 we'll be changing over to RVT, real-time text, or RTT. So that's what we're going to be doing in the future. I don't know if that's going to have access for everyone, but anyway. Anyway, the text to 911 is a great tool in any type of disaster where no phone is available for the deaf people to call. Your Honor, the Cerebral Palsy and Deaf Organization encourages the 911 Center
 to take time to work with people with disabilities who may type the message slowly. Once again, CPADO supports the resolution. Please vote in favor of the resolution for the sake of our citizens' safety. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, commissioners and mayor. My name is Ponna. Last name is Nicklin.
 I'm here also as a board of director with Oregon Association of the Deaf, OAD. And I live in Salem, Oregon. And I want to share my testimony on OAD and also on the support of text to 911 for the emergency services. OAD expresses the full support of text to 911 for the emergency services.
 We understand that the support includes, or we support what you guys are doing with this and for the resolution of the issues at stake. I wanted to share with you all my personal experience with 911. I had a bad situation happen several years ago. I needed to call 911, and I wasn't able to because I couldn't do it at the time using video relay.
 That's where I see the interpreter on the screen, so that's how I called 911. But I wasn't able to and I wish that I had had a text to 911 at the time because I wasn't able to reach my video phone. So fortunately for me, I was okay and I escaped from the situation. But I just know there's other people out there who are experiencing this kind of thing. It's a terrible situation where you're not able to call. So some deaf people,
 can text and some can't. It kind of depends on what their situation is. But it's beneficial for all community members, hearing and deaf. You never know what's going to happen. You don't know what's going on in their lives personally. So for example, we feel that Text to 911 services will provide a quick response, direct access
 um with direct communication back and forth instead of going through an interpreter on the video phone which takes time to dispatch the call every second counts in that situation to save a life what mark said uh about most of us using the phone uh a lot more now than tty's um well we're trying to remove the barriers to communication and provide more access we um
 We want to see that improve in the future. That's our goal. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thank you all. Testimony. Thank you all. Okay, and you have no other panels to call. We should see if there's public testimony, correct? Exactly. Thanks very much. And we'll see. Carla, do you have a sign-up sheet, or anyone would like to come up and speak on this resolution? I have three people signed up. I have Suzanne Stahl, Charles Johnson, and Crystal Elinsky. She's using her own show now.
 Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Charles Johnson, for the record. And I want to remind you, I think this is a very auspicious way. This is the best city council meeting in a long time. And I hope that for the rest of the year, we will continue to, all of us citizens and commissioners, work hard to have this level of inclusion and even greater diversity here.
 and it's always great to see LaVon Hester and other people from the Portland Divisibility Commission. I'm going to presume they're still meeting this afternoon on the fifth floor of the Commonwealth Building, and although I usually go there for the Human Rights Commission, I think I'll make it a goal to better engage with other segments of the community and a
 you know, realize that we're talking about really different abilities here and making sure that everyone is treated fairly, that we have a system that's ideal, as we've seen for people with cerebral palsy. The gentleman who testified for that organization mentioned that sometimes they may text more slowly, and I hope that the emergency communications people, part of their standard protocol is that when they get this information,
 they'll dispatch personnel. I'm partial to the fire department over the police department, but any personnel, as soon as they get that identifying information, so that help can be en route as the clearing and frying information comes in. But primarily, I want to just congratulate you for picking up the ball that the state government has dropped and
 putting us in a race with the state of Washington to see if we can have full and better text-to-911 service before they have it across the river. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Suzanne. How are you? Good morning. My name is Suzanne Stahl. I'm the co-chair of...
 the vice chair, sorry, of the Portland Commission on Disability. And today I would like to read a testimony from a friend of mine, Stephen Brown, who is the chair of the Legislation Committee for the Oregon Association of the Deaf. And this letter was not only signed by him, but it was signed by Chad Ludwig, who is the OAD president.
 Hello, my name is Stephen M. Brown. I am here as Chair of Legislation Committee for the Oregon Association of the Deaf, as well as a Portland resident, to share my testimony and to support the text to 911 emergency messaging initiative.
 The OAD trusts that the City Council understands the importance of this initiative to removing barriers for participation for Portlanders with disabilities. In its furtherance, we also enrich the Office of...
 excuse me, the Office of Equity and Human Rights mission to promote equity for all Portlanders to enjoy and participate in public facilities, programs, services, or activities. We look forward to continuing to work with the council and others as this initiative moves forward.
 At the Portland Commission on Disability meeting in November 2015, the commissioners heard from the Bureau of Emergency Management representative concerning a limited equal access to call 911 in the event of an emergency. The Bureau wants to see a new Portland City ordinance that requires text to 911 emergency
 be directly accessible and provide equal access. The OAD feels that this initiative is not only an accommodation issue, which makes it a paramount under Title II of the ADA, but it's also a public safety issue.
 In addition to the benefits this will provide to the deaf, deaf-blind, deaf-plus, and hard of hearing, this proposed ordinance will benefit our community by addressing directly equal access issues such as public safety issues due to limit of direct equal access landline phone system, conveyance of important information in easier and quick method of texting,
 Texting can be useful in emergency events where immediate help is needed. Increased usage of smartphones in recent years over the actual uses of landline phones. The number of text telephones usage is declining due to rapidly changing emerging communication technology. Deaf, deafblind, hard of hearing, and speech impaired.
 disabled individuals are following those trends. Title, ADA Title II includes a provision which I quote,
 Where a public entity communicates by telephone with applicants and beneficiaries, text telephones or equally effective communication systems shall be used to communicate with individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing or have speech impairments.
 All the aforementioned situations would be avoidable if texting is available anytime and anywhere. This proposed ordinance requiring text to 911 emergency messaging will be in compliance with ADA Title II best practices. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you both.
 Any others here to speak? Mr. Buehler is going to clarify some information for us. Oh, okay. Please. I just wanted to let you know that Mr. Johnson just said Wednesday today is our meeting. It actually has – that was the executive committee meeting, which has moved. That is on Thursday tomorrow. But more importantly, our full commission meeting will be Friday morning at 11 to 1. Okay.
 If you would like to come join us, you can still go to the Human Rights Commission meeting. Thanks a lot. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else that would like to speak on this item? If not, then let's please take a vote on the resolution. Ritz? For the four years that I had the pleasure of being the commissioner in charge of the 911 Bureau, the Bureau of Emergency Communications, one of the first things I learned from Director Lisa Turley was kind of obvious, but when you think about it,
 People call 911 on the worst day of their lives, and there are many situations where people may need to get in touch with emergency providers where they can't or don't want to call.
 So I'm very grateful to Lisa Turley, Laura Wolf, the City of Lake Oswego, and our other community partners. It's great that you've been able to pull together a consortium, not only Multnomah County. I very much appreciate that. We've had some success with the text lines for life, where for several years now, teenagers and others have been able to text in suicidal situations and other situations.
 incidences where some people just feel more comfortable with texting rather than talking. And so this is another example of the great work of the Commission on Disability, as well as BOEC and its wonderful employees, of recognizing that providing accommodation actually is more inclusive for everybody and has multiple benefits for everybody. I'm very happy to hear that it can be simply plugged into our computer-aided dispatch system that was installed and working well.
 And I'm also very pleased that we're able to do what we're doing, doing what we can, before we can get all the bells and whistles. That's certainly the basic texting, which my 85-year-old mother is extremely good at, is something that's within a lot of people's capabilities. And I appreciate all the work. Commissioner Novick, thank you for getting this done. Aye. Aye.
 Yes. Director Turley, Commissioner Novick, congratulations. This is a wonderful way to start the new year, an advance in technology, cost effective. I look forward to the next evolution where a picture, a photograph can be included. And I will just add that having spent my holiday in Europe visiting my family, one of the barriers I encountered there was the absence of Wi-Fi.
 And without Wi-Fi, a lot of people can't send or receive data. So I became pretty good at identifying where all the Starbucks were because they had free Wi-Fi. New York City just this week began to roll out a system where they're going to put 6,000 kiosks throughout the city to provide free universal access to Wi-Fi, which I think is something the city is going to have to consider at some point to boost people's access to the system. Right.
 This is a really smart, sensible step forward, and congratulations to everyone who made this day possible. Hi. Mr. Saltzman. Well, I know for years we –
 I remember having conversations with Lisa over the years about why we can't do this, and I remember there was a, either the state of Iowa or a community in Iowa was light years ahead of everybody else, and they had set up texting capabilities. So I'm glad that, I'm glad I really appreciate the workaround here that this represents, working around sort of a plotting state as they move ahead. And it's really a great example of technological innovation. I mean, it's just an outstanding example
 of the benefits of technology, and in this case, for the disabled community in particular. It's a remarkable achievement, and I really appreciate the leadership in getting this done sooner rather than later. Thank you. Hi. Novick. Thank you.
 It is a great honor to serve as the Commissioner for the Bureau of Emergency Communications and to work with our first first responders who work tirelessly every day to serve the citizens of Portland where they are in their greatest need. And as you've seen today, also work tirelessly to improve that service in any way possible.
 I really, really appreciate the support and the work of LaVon and Terry and Donna and Mark and their testimony today underscoring the importance of this move. I'm extremely proud of BOEC leadership and of our regional partners for joining us in this effort. This is going to be a wonderful improvement in service to a large number of people. Look forward to implementing it. Thank you so, so much.
 What an excellent piece of work and an excellent hearing. So thank you, Commissioner Novick and Lisa and your team. This is really a move that everyone's going to benefit from. And the hearings, I think, made that clear. And we all carry these, the one version or another of these devices around in our pockets. And they allow us to...
 communicate in a variety of ways as long as the others and the communications are set up to do so we can take video we can record voices we can even get language translation on these things so we're all carrying a very powerful computer uh in our pockets or our purses but
 And yet, we haven't caught up in a lot of what government does. So this is an important move. And I think it's also been really profound today how clear this is to all of us now, how this will connect all of our citizens to city services much better than we have in the past. So it's a great piece of work. I think it's important to note, in passing, I spend a little time on Twitter occasionally talking to our citizens. And once we make this change, you will be able to text to 911.
 but you still can't request emergency services by tweets. So please call or text, but don't try to get the police bureau or the fire bureau or anyone else to respond by tweeting. So with that caveat, job well done. Great move. Aye. Thank you. Okay, let's move, please, from this good piece of work to item number seven. City Club of Portland Street Funding Presentation. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, for nearly 30 years, the City of Portland has known that we are underinvesting in our transportation infrastructure, and the streets have been gradually crumbling. And every year that we delay, the problem gets worse because the longer it takes you wait to fix a street, the more expensive it is to fix it. Streets are kind of like teeth. If you don't do regular brushing, flossing, and cleaning, then you get into root canals and extractions.
 Now, we are poised, finally, to take action. Three weeks from now, I will bring to council a proposal to send to the voters a temporary $0.10 per gallon gas tax to fund street repairs and traffic safety, because another issue we have in the city is there's too many places in the city where it is not safe for children to walk or bike to school or for seniors to walk to bus stops because of dangerous intersections or missing pieces of sidewalks.
 The City Club of Portland has done a great deal to re-energize the discussion about transportation funding and to set the stage for a successful effort with their research report and recommendations.
 And I am delighted that the City Club and the persons, I believe, of Jennifer Rollins, Chair of the Street Funding Research Committee, and Kristen Eberhardt, the lead report writer, I'm glad that they are here today to present the report and discuss their research and their findings and their recommendations. Thank you very much. Jennifer, Kristen, come on up, please. Good morning. Welcome.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Jennifer Rollins, and as Commissioner Novick mentioned, I was the chair of the City Club of Portland's research committee that looked at the issue of funding for Portland's streets. And we're really just grateful that you're still willing to listen to us and consider our ideas. And I'm going to turn over the substantive portion to Kristen Eberhardt, who is the chief writer of the report and knows the most about it. Kristen? Thank you. Thank you.
 For nearly 30 years, Portland has tried and failed to find the funds it needs to keep roads in good repair. Portland is at the vanguard of becoming a multimodal city, but to maintain that leadership position, we have to find the funds to adequately fund streets. Unfortunately, there's no silver bullet here. Funds from current and future budget surpluses can help. The city gas tax that you have proposed will cover some of the routine maintenance, but those together are still not enough. The city has to implement additional fees,
 preferably as closely related to street use as possible, to ensure Portland streets serve residents and businesses for decades to come. So our report has more detail, but we just have four recommendations for you today. So first, we urge you to place a local gas tax on the May ballot.
 The City Club of Portland is encouraged that you have taken the initial steps to place the tax on the ballot. We believe that a local gas tax strikes the best balance of efficiency, fairness, and equity of all the options available. The gas tax is a tried-and-true method for funding streets. Twenty other cities have implemented one, and the Oregon Constitution requires that all the money from a gas tax has to be dedicated to roads so the funds are protected.
 A city gas tax would have a low administrative cost and high compliance rates because we could do what other cities do and have Oregon Department of Transportation collect the gas tax through its existing mechanism and then give it back to us.
 A gas tax has a strong nexus with street use. For most motorists, the amount they pay is directly related to the amount that they drive. This creates an incentive for more people to get around Portland by walking, biking, and transit, and ride-sharing instead of in a vehicle by themselves, which leads to less congestion, less pollution, better health, and fewer injuries from crashes.
 Additionally, any new revenue mechanism we think needs to seriously consider the impact it will have on those in Portland who are least able to pay. So two advocacy organizations we met with, Opal and Oregon Walks, told us that low-income people in Portland are more dependent on walking, biking, and buses compared to higher-income people who are more car-dependent.
 Nationwide, households with the highest income spend four times as much as lower income households on gas, meaning that higher income households would pay more for a gas tax than lower income households. They would still pay less as a percentage of their income, so a gas tax is not progressive, but it is much less regressive than a flat household fee.
 So we asked the city to unanimously place a 10 cent local gas tax on the May ballot. Our second recommendation is to look for additional local revenue streams, and we have a few we'd like you to look at. So implementing the gas tax is just part of the solution. Our report concludes that the city can't address street maintenance backlog or implement the important Vision Zero safety improvements that it needs without new revenue sources.
 So when we were looking at the other options, we asked ourselves two questions. First, does the mechanism capture the most revenue from those who drive the most? And second, does the funding place an unethical or inequitable burden on partners who are least able to pay? So based on these considerations, we have three recommendations. First, a value and weight-based vehicle registration fee.
 Vehicle registration fee captures a basic relationship between vehicle use and road use and paying, but the current flat fee that we have is regressive because low-income households pay the same amount as high-income households and heavy trucks are exempted. So we would recommend a more equitable arrangement where you index the vehicle registration fee to the weight and value of the vehicle.
 So more expensive vehicle owners who have already proved their ability to pay would pay more than low income. Second, we recommend a commuter payroll tax. This is something that Commissioner Novick mentioned to us during our research. It would be a $2 per month payroll tax on non-Portland residents who work in Portland.
 It has a couple of benefits. First, $2 is pretty low relative to total payrolls. And second, it would capture money from non-Portland residents who wouldn't be paying other taxes. And finally, because it would be assessed on non-Portland residents, its success at the ballot would be likely. Nice.
 Our final recommendation is parking permits and fees. So right now, the city subsidizes private car ownership by allowing private vehicles to park for free on a public asset.
 You recently had a report from a stakeholder advisory committee about parking registration fees that told you you could do it on a neighborhood-by-neighborhood basis so that it would be based on local ability to pay, and it would let neighborhoods choose the street and safety improvements that are most important to their neighborhood. Parking registration permits are a relatively fair means of raising revenue because only owners of vehicles would be charged.
 So our third recommendation is to commit to spending 50% of future budget surpluses on maintaining infrastructure. So we were happy to see that the council committed 50% of last year's budget surplus to infrastructure maintenance, and we urge you to commit to do the same for future years. Now, we realize that the city has other urgent priorities, like the housing crisis,
 But we think that committing 50% of surpluses to maintenance is important for a couple reasons. First, it's fiscally prudent. Deferring infrastructure maintenance doesn't just put those costs off to a future year, but it actually increases the cost that you're going to have to pay. So spending money on infrastructure maintenance now rather than later saves money for other priorities like housing, parks, and police.
 Second, it builds trust. So during our research, we heard from witnesses that voters don't trust that the city is actually prioritizing streets.
 Now, there's always going to be people who criticize your spending priorities, no matter what they are. But the criticism or mistrust on this issue seemed to be more widespread, and there were a few reasons that we heard. First, people think that streets are a core city function, so they expect that the city is always spending money on those. So when they learned that the city has actually been putting off prudent maintenance for decades, they were shocked and felt like the city was shirking its duties. Yes.
 And second, when people heard about the street crisis last year, they expected to first see a change in city priorities before the city asked them to reach into their pockets for new fees or taxes. So the feelings seem to be, if the city isn't digging deep, why should we have to dig?
 So by dedicating 50% of your budget to surplus last year, the city council sent the message to voters that the city really is taking this seriously, that you are changing your priorities, and that you are putting your money where their mouth is. Making a commitment to do the same for future years would strengthen that signal and build voters' trust that they can vote for a gas tax in May. But just so you know, the resolution was for four years, so we're going to continue doing that for at least this year and the next two. Okay, great. Thank you.
 And it's limited to one-time money, not the ongoing money. So it's 50% of the one-time money. Right. And it's for maintenance, but not just transportation maintenance. All maintenance, as you know. Right. Infrastructure maintenance we think is important. Transportation, parks, and emergency management.
 So our final recommendation is that Portland needs to engage in Salem. So Salem holds the keys to several of the potential funding sources that we've identified, but in 2015, legislators from the Portland area didn't take a leadership role in promoting the city's needs in the statewide transportation package. So this year we would urge Portland leaders to talk with your colleagues in the legislature to make sure that in 2017, when the transportation package is back on the table, Portland representatives play a key role.
 So the League of Oregon Cities could be an important ally in this. In 2015, the League lobbied for many of the things that Portland needs, including a gas tax that's indexed to inflation so it doesn't keep losing value until the next legislative battle to raise taxes, and local authority to raise local funds. So our recommendation of a value and weight-based vehicle registration fee right now is preempted by state law, so you need the legislature to give you the authority to do that.
 The league did not argue for a reallocation of highway funds, but that could be a goal for Portland to try and get next year. Cities own about 25% of the roads in Oregon, and cities accommodate the vast majority of the people in Oregon. Yet cities get less than 20% of the highway fund. So asking for 25% could be appropriate.
 so in conclusion all portland residents and businesses depend on safe and well-maintained city streets to keep those safe and well-maintained we urge you to vote unanimously to place a 10 cent local gas tax on the ballot to identify additional local revenue streams to commit to dedicating 50 percent of future budget surpluses and to engage in salem to get the authority that you need for a local vehicle registration fee
 Thank you. Questions? What led you to believe that the City of Portland didn't engage and that our legislators didn't engage at the legislature last year on the transportation funding issue? That was something that we heard from witnesses, that there could have been a bigger voice in that transportation discussion. I personally was down there nine times advocating for transportation funding, so I…
 We were loud. Yeah, and certainly COTEC was a leader and several legislators were. So certainly from our perspective, it didn't seem like it was for lack of trying, and it's going to be high on our agenda for this coming session. Yeah, and actually it's always important to remember the history, and of course the City Club report, you did a good job in your report of explicating that. But yeah.
 We were requested by the Governor and the Speaker of the House to take no further action on a local transportation measure during the 2015 session. So they could act on a transportation funding measure. And we obviously acceded to that request and continued to advocate for passage of the state transportation bill. That unfortunately didn't happen. And apparently, based on what I've heard so far from legislative leaders, they're not planning on it happening this year either.
 so that's pretty disappointing, almost as disappointing as Congress, which has not done anything on this subject for decades. So we will continue to advocate. Your instruction is heard and accepted. We will continue to advocate that the legislature and the federal government do their part as well. But obviously having the City Club weigh in, as you have, is an important civic statement from the community that that needs to happen. So we appreciate you raising that.
 Thank you for your efforts. I'm sorry I didn't know how loud you were being. But just to reiterate, part of what we would ask you to do is not just ask them to do their part, but to free you up to do your part. Yes, and to not create this. We have a big list of things that we want them to stop preempting us, which leads me to my next question. You mentioned about moving away from the flat registration fee. That's county, right? Who has the authority to change that?
 So right now the county does. So our recommendation is to ask the legislature to let the city have authority. Thank you very much. Yeah, the preemptions are a big problem in a number of areas, housing as well. So we appreciate you raising that point. A couple questions. First, I really appreciate the City Club coming in, presenting after they've issued a report. This is the—
 third or fourth time in a number of years where this has happened. Once upon a time, the City Club used to issue reports, but they didn't come to council. So I think this next step is really essential, and thank you for your time and your diligence. I have the abbreviated version of your report, and so I don't have the list of witnesses. How many people actually participated and testified in support of this report on the lot?
 It's going to take me a second, but I've got the report here. Okay. I'll get that for you. I want to offer just an observation about the word trust, and I appreciate that you made an observation about people aren't – some of the people you heard from don't trust that we'll spend the money wisely. In seven years in this job, what I've learned is that increasingly people couch a policy disagreement in terms of trust. Once upon a time, people – adults would come and say, I disagree with you.
 Now they say, I don't trust you. And we hear it most loudly, just to give you some feedback, about investing in bicycles, light rail, streetcar. And that's where we're often told we don't trust your spending priorities. So I want to caution about reading into the trust piece more globally something, because what we increasingly find is a legitimate good faith policy disagreement couched as a trust issue.
 And increasingly, I think, and I think it's actually toxic to government that every time you have a disagreement, you couch it as a trust issue because what you're doing is kind of getting into a personal kind of dispute rather than simply saying I have a disagreement about where you're going to invest your money. But, again, the most vocal segment of opposition we hear in transportation funding, in my experience, around bikes and alternatives is,
 is couched as a trust issue. So I think we have to weigh that. I'm not saying we don't deserve to get dinged for spending priorities or for how we've spent money in the past, but I caution reading too much into the trust argument because it's become a catch-all for just a disagreement.
 To the extent you've made some very thoughtful recommendations here about alternative funding sources, how important was it in your consideration to balance the administrative overhead of actually collecting the funds as part of your recommendation? Because one of the things we learned in the last debate was there's a lot of money in
 There are some options on the table where the cost of collecting and the compliance issues really outweigh the benefit. How important was that as a screen for your evaluation of the several options you've come forward with? Well, so to answer your first easy question, we had 21 witnesses. Okay. So that's not an insignificant number in a city, but in a city of 600,000, I don't know whether it's representative of the city, but at least 21 people were motivated enough to testify. Okay.
 And we took administrative costs into consideration. We had in our long 90-page report a decision matrix, and one of the factors was administrative costs. And there were lots of great suggestions that we rejected because we thought compliance would be low or the cost to administer a brand-new program that there was no infrastructure for already in place would eat up any costs.
 any new funding. So there are plenty of ideas that we've rejected just out of pocket based on that consideration. With respect to the gas tax, I remember a couple years ago when we were having this debate and looking at that as an option, there were some ideas the community pitched to us about how to make it less regressive.
 how you might provide subsidies and how you might administer them through cards or through a credit card type system or a debit card system or something else. Did you consider any of those options in your review of how to mitigate the inequities of a gas tax by subsidizing directly or indirectly lower income customers? No.
 I don't recall any discussions about subsidizing lower-income people with respect to the gas tax. We looked at a lot of ways that we could subsidize the gas.
 that tough, you know, a flat fee. But I don't think we talked to any witnesses, and we talked a lot about gas tax, about a card program or any of the programs that you're mentioning. Do you recall anything, Christine? Yeah, the low-income representatives that we talked to didn't bring up that, but they did emphasize that it would be important that money collected through gas tax be spent in ways that also benefit people who are not card-dependent, so that the impact on them was beneficial.
 beneficial but they they didn't talk about a direct way of subsidizing them commissioner of course one issue with the gas tax is under the state constitution it's dedicated to road work um so we couldn't physically take the money any money money from the gas tax and send it as rebates to lower income people um we will be proposing to
 spend a goodly chunk of the non-paving money in our proposal in areas which are deficient in infrastructure like sidewalks and safe intersections, and those are largely concentrated in the lower-income areas of the city. How you use the money has the effect. Last question, and it's about vehicle registration fees. In 2004, when I...
 once upon a time was a candidate for unsuccessfully for this job i actually talked about raising vehicle registration fees my opponent put it in the voters pamphlet because it pulled off the charts as a negative my opponent later became a very distinguished transportation commissioner in charge but but at the time at time the polling apparently indicated that if you tagged me with it it was it was not not well received east of 82nd street fast forward
 we cobbled together a package to fund Selwood Bridge, which would have required Clackamas County to do a modest increase in vehicle registration fee, and I believe that was overturned by referendum. Do we have any sense, empirical evidence, that the public is more willing generally to consider a vehicle registration fee increase for this purpose? You mean a gas tax? No, the vehicle registration fee. Vehicle registration fee. Oh, I see. That's the next item. They had other, I think, creative options. But do we have any...
 Do we have any information that the public is more receptive than they might have been in the past to raising the vehicle registration fee to cover these costs? No.
 So as a committee, we really didn't have the ability to engage any sort of polling. And we did talk to the folks that did polling for the city and some other public polling groups. And we didn't have any specific data like that. What does poll well in this area is tax that someone else pays, of course. And then...
 My sense was that overall ideas that would – were progressive. So our hope was that a more progressive form of a registration fee where someone who has – Based on the value of the car. Some ability to buy an expensive car or wait based on use. So someone that has a very heavy vehicle is putting more wear and tear in the street. So we're hopeful. Yeah. And perhaps that –
 is reflective of some naivete on my part. But my hope was that that would tie into the sense that it was fair and progressive and that that would appeal to Portland voters. Maybe we could have a progressive scale and then have a supercharge for anyone driving a Hummer. Exactly.
 Exactly. Because last night in my neighborhood, Hummers take up two lanes. So I think we ought to be a super-duper charge for that. And maybe you could drum up support in your neighborhood for that. It might pull well. Anyway, thank you for your presentation. It's a treat for us to have the City Club come and present it.
 We appreciate this tradition, as Commissioner Fish said, of having City Club reports presented here, communicated to us, but also to the larger community this way. Obviously, the City Club does that well itself, and OPB helps, but it's great that we have this tradition, and we're glad you're willing to come here and have this kind of dialogue in public with us and with the community. Thank you for having us today. Thank you for having me.
 Other questions? I just wanted to say I really appreciate the work you put into this. When you released your report, it gave a real shot in the arm to efforts to revisit the issue of finding adequate funding for transportation. Thank you for pointing out that the State currently prohibits us from having any kind of vehicle registration fee. That is definitely something on our agenda.
 I did want to note that last year, or actually in this budget year, the city is committing more general fund transportation adjusted for inflation than any time since 1985. So I think we've begun overcoming those 30 years of disinvestment since we did have some one-time money available. And finally, I just wanted to add one more item to your list of possible additional ways to raise revenue from transportation in a fair way, which is studded tires impose a
 inordinate wear and tear on the roads. I've talked with the chairs of each of the counties in the tri-county area about the possibility of having a sales tax on studded tires, which I think you'd have to have in all three counties, otherwise people would just drive across the board and get them, and all of them expressed interest in that. So that's something I continue to pursue with them as well, and I'd appreciate your support of that.
 Thank you so much. MS. I just have one further clarifying question, because I'm not sure that you meant what you wrote in the report under the recommendations, number 11. Portland should not saddle all taxpayers with the bill for capital projects that primarily or exclusively benefit a few people and businesses.
 Bridges primarily benefiting the people driving across the bridge and streetcar projects primarily benefit the businesses located near the line. If the people and businesses are not willing to pay for the benefits they receive, the city should forego the project rather than siphon money away from things that benefit Portlanders more broadly, such as street maintenance and safety. How does that…
 I don't understand how that would comport in areas where the neighbours and the businesses can't pay. Like the huge infrastructure maintenance that we need to do on Powell and 122nd and some of the places where there just isn't the capacity of the local folks to pay, even if the rest of us don't necessarily drive those streets very much. Can I address that? We're not talking about infrastructure maintenance. We're talking about capital projects. So...
 We specifically think that that money should be going to infrastructure maintenance in areas around the city, but not to new projects. But the problem is that East Portland and Southwest Portland don't have the infrastructure, so they don't get maintenance. They need the capital projects in order to be able to have city standard streets. So did you look at that issue as part of your discussions that...
 I understand the points about the streetcar, and indeed the streetcar, the businesses along the streetcar and the properties were assessed additionally for those services. But what about the equity of providing services for infrastructure in places that don't have them and can't afford to pay for them? I guess we're drawing a distinction between infrastructure like paving streets or creating sidewalks that create safety and new infrastructure projects that only benefit a very specific group of people like the streetcar industry.
 Thank you. That's an issue that I guess if the City Club is going to continue working on transportation issues, which I bet you will, I would hope that you will help us think about as well. Which is, if, as he says he will do, the Commissioner brings a proposal to this council to send a gas tax to the voters, we'll have a hearing on that and take action on it.
 That will fund additional work in maintenance and in safety. However, we still have a giant unfunded liability in transportation, and the city annexed large areas in the 80s and 90s where the county had permitted homes to be built on cesspools with dirt streets out in front of them.
 We installed sewers at great expense, those residents and everyone else, to put sewers into the largest unsewered area in the United States. We used to call it Mid-Multnomah County, and now we call it East Portland. And we still have only built a few of the 55 miles of unbuilt streets that we were gifted with when those areas were required to be annexed to the City of Portland by the State Environmental Quality Commission.
 So we still have this big problem, community problem, of unbuilt streets. And it happens that in many parts of that...
 unbuilt network the residents who live in live on those streets are well below the average of household income there are a few places where there are wealthy people living on bad streets but mostly it's the other way around it's people with little means to form a local improvement district and pay 20 30 000 a year 23 000 for their share of building the street that never was so that's a huge problem for portland we put a little bit of money in the general fund budget this year
 towards that goal and have asked the Transportation Bureau to start developing a program to start systematically addressing that beyond local improvement districts. The Bureau does a great job of working with property owners to form local improvement districts, but
 at the rate of progress that way, I think it's going to take about 300 years to build out that network. I think Commissioner Fritz's point is well taken. I don't think that the intent of the report was to –
 put neighborhoods in a position of being neglected because they're low-income neighborhoods. I think the thrust of that argument was to say that you should take care of existing problems before taking money to build new projects that might only benefit a small area of the city. And I think that was partly to address the idea that greater and greater portions of PBOT's budget is going to debt service for very specific projects.
 I'm really wanting to preserve as much money as possible to benefit the most people as possible, not to segregate a neighborhood. Yeah, good point.
 Other questions or comments or requests of the City Club? We're being awfully demanding of you since you're a volunteer. But the City Club plays such an important role. And, again, this dialogue that we have here when you present reports, I think is really helpful to us, really helpful to the community in airing these issues. So we hope you're always willing to do this. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. So this is not an action item. We don't have to take a vote on it. And we won't be taking testimony today on this, though. Obviously, it's the 28th. I'm sorry. Hang on a minute, folks. Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. Let me explain. This is a communications item. We have someone communicating to the council.
 just like we do at the beginning of each council meeting. So it wasn't my intention to take testimony there. There's no action before the city council day on this subject, but it's going to be on the 28th. Is that right? The 27th. 27th. So we will be taking Commissioner Novick's proposal up on 27th. If you need to have the opposition comment.
 No, if you want to take up an argument with the City Club, if you want to have a debate with the City Club, go debate the City Club. It's their report. If you want to debate, excuse me, if you want to debate, and you will.
 You'll have a right to come speak on action when it's regarding the council. You'll have a right to come speak on the council's action when the council's taking action. So we're going to move on to the next item, folks. Sorry, we're going to move on. We're going to move on. So we're going to move on to the next item, which is number eight. Item number eight.
 Number eight, recognize city employees for their tireless efforts in responding to significant record-breaking rain and flooding during the week of December 6, 2015. Commissioner Nelvick.
 Colleagues, the city was recently faced with a spectacular rainfall on December 7th that contributed to the wettest December on record. 3.32 inches of rain fell at the airport in the 24 hours ending at 2 p.m. on December 7th. That broke a previous record for 24 hours for December that was set in 1977. December 7th was the third wettest day in Portland history, 2.85 inches at the Portland airport.
 December became the all-time wettest month ever recorded in Portland with 15.24 inches of rainfall, and we set a December record for 25 consecutive days with measurable rainfall. City employees worked around the clock to keep our streets clear, our water supply safe, our river clean, and to keep our parks and communities safe. Our employees do excellent work every day, but during times of disaster like the ones we experienced recently, their work becomes even more important.
 Today, we take a minute to pause and thank all of our city employees for the work they do to keep city services functioning.
 This resolution is particularly timely because earlier this week, city employees again worked long hours to keep the city of Portland and its citizens safe, moving, and informed. I'm very proud of the work our employees do every day. I'm, of course, particularly proud of my bureaus, all of whom were involved. The PBOT maintenance crews worked tirelessly, and it's great to see PBOT maintenance folk here today. I ask you to stand up and be recognized. Here, let's suspend the rules and thank our crews.
 Of course, Carmen Merlot and the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management coordinated the tar out of our efforts. Thank you, Carmen. And I'm sorry that Lisa and Laura left because, of course, the call takers and dispatchers at BOEC worked even harder than usual because, of course, they get lots and lots of calls during an event like this.
 So I'd like – and by the way, I heard frequently about how well-coordinated all of our efforts were throughout the bureaus, and I'd actually like to take a second now to ask my fellow commissioners to talk about their bureaus and their work. Steve, first, thanks for bringing this forward. Thanks to our dedicated public employees who provide great services 24-7, particularly during storms and times of stress.
 So we got some, and I want to thank you, Commissioner Novick, and Leah Treat, and PBOT for the leadership role you played during the winter storms. I just want to take a moment to put it in context, because we've been getting e-mails and inquiries from people asking, you know, what was the volume, what was the magnitude, and how did the system work? And Steve Behrens is here and just gave me a quick update and a primer. So here's the context. Okay.
 In the fall, we have normal flows through our system of both stormwater and sewage, between 50 and 75 million gallons a day. And the system was designed to manage that, to take it off the streets, to take it out of homes and businesses, get it to the wastewater facility, and hopefully prevent it from going in the river. On Halloween...
 we set a record this year, the City of Portland set a record, with in excess of a peak flow of over 300 million gallons. So when you think about that, that's roughly six times what the normal flow is that had to be accommodated through the big pipe and then through the wastewater facility. And then most important, we had to keep the bad stuff out of the river to be in compliance with our permits.
 And I think the BES team thought that was pretty remarkable, the peak that we hit on Halloween in this 100-year storm event. But it was subsequently exceeded by 50%. So we hit at the highest, we hit a nine times above normal flow. And the peak flow within the past month hit 450 million gallons.
 And that's just unprecedented. I mean, that's why they call it a 100-year storm. There's no precedent for it. And here's just an observation that I think we can all be proud of. Going back 20-something years, Dan, how long have we been working on the Big Pipe? Back to Earl Blumenauer's days, Dan Saltzman had a big hand in it. But the Big Pipe, which was about a billion two, right?
 was designed to prevent what was a routine occurrence of 50, 60 times a year of raw sewage going into our rivers. Well, the big pipe worked. The combination of green infrastructure, which is all the work Mother Nature did, and we saw those bioswells throughout the city overflowing, combined with the big pipe, combined with other steps we've taken, managed a record flow.
 And there were a couple of instances where there were limited discharges into the river, which were consistent with our permit. So then it begs the other question that people have had, which is, why didn't you build a system to anticipate a 100-year storm and a flow of 450 million gallons? And the answer to that is that if we had presented that 20 years ago to the public, I think they would have rejected that recommendation, because it would have resulted in the big pipe being at least three times more expensive.
 the big pipe covers about 95 percent of of what we could anticipate with at any given time would be the needs of our system the big pipe was not designed to to cover the 100-year storm so at a 100-year storm event there's going to occasionally be some discharges so i just want to echo what steve said and put by putting that context on it just point out what a remarkable event we've just gone through unprecedented and the system worked both the
 infrastructure part of the system, which was the pipes and the bioswales and all the other – and the wastewater facility, but that system doesn't work without the human infrastructure, without the talented people at PBOD and VES and emergency and maintenance and everyone else who stepped up in parks during this unusual event. So I want to add my thanks to all the hardworking people involved.
 that worked overtime to manage a 100-year event. And we may not see it again in our lifetime. But the system worked, and the folks responsible for managing this system stepped up. And, Steve, thank you again for your leadership. Well, I'd certainly like to thank the members of Portland Fire and Rescue for the outstanding job they do. They're always ready all the time, so they're always busy. And also the Portland Housing Bureau, which for the first time,
 open severe winter shelters under a really sort of a non-winter scenario. It really wasn't that cold. There wasn't snow and ice on the ground, but yet water was everywhere. And so we realized we have to adopt a new criteria that deals that responds to just inundation, storms like that, as it affects our opening of our severe winter shelters. But we adapted, and we will adapt in the future. So thank you to both of those bureaus.
 Thank you to the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and Portland Parks and Recreation, particularly Nicole Chiron in the Disability Program of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, who partnered with local agencies to make sure the needs of people with disabilities for shelter and safety were addressed. Thank you.
 Portland Parks staff responded to 59 tree emergencies. We opened Mount Scott Community Center as a temporary shelter for people impacted by the flooding. Our parks maintenance workers did incredibly wonderful work. The rangers were out in all weather. And our community centers provided safe, dry places for people to exercise, have fun, and get together when we were all feeling a bit drenched. So thank you very much to all of my staff. Well, you know, when...
 when I try to describe city government to people that maybe aren't completely familiar with it, sometimes I use a little bit of shorthand, and I say we're a big blue-collar service organization with a little thin layer of administration and policy on top, and that would include us in terms of that thin layer. And I mean that as a description but also as a compliment because that's what we do. We go do real things like patrol the streets and take care of medical and fire emergencies and pay for the medical bills.
 paved streets and fixed pipes. So we are, regardless of the actual color of the collar, though firefighters wear blue collars, depending on which uniform they're wearing, police officers wear blue collars. Maintenance workers, Bureau of Maintenance folks are more inclined towards orange so people can see them and not run into them with their cars. But the point remains that we are out there doing real work that keeps the infrastructure of the city functioning under all conditions and
 and it needs to be noticed and appreciated, and that's why this resolution today is a good idea. So I'm glad that some of those workers are here. I'm glad, Commissioner Novick, that you put this together as a way for us to recognize and say thanks. Steve, if I could, I neglected to also include a shout-out to the Water Bureau team. They did partner with PBOT in dealing with some of the landslides and some of the other logistical issues.
 They made sure that the water ran. And we have had some water main breaks with the cold weather in the last couple weeks, but nothing unusual. So also many thanks to the team at the Water Bureau. That reminds me, too, that the Bureau of Development Services was very helpful in some parks landslides that we had, and I know on various other structural issues. So thank you to them. Colleagues, I'd now like to ask everybody who played a role in responding to the recent storm to stand while I read the resolution. Okay.
 Whereas city employees exemplified extraordinary public service during the extensive rain and flooding that occurred the week of December 6, 2015. And whereas the extent of the damage and flooding required the governor to declare a state of emergency that included Multnomah County. And whereas city employees worked long hours and under arduous conditions to keep the residents of Portland safe, moving, and informed.
 And whereas the Bureau of Emergency Communications answered over 3,000 calls per day on December 7th through 10th, almost 1,000 more calls per day than in previous years. And whereas the Bureau of Emergency Management quickly set up a unified command to coordinate a response from a number of agencies in the region.
 And whereas the Bureau of Transportation worked exhaustively to respond to 20 landslides, remove the equivalent of 80 dump trucks of debris, keep emergency response routes clear, and respond to twice the typical number of constituent calls. And whereas two Water Bureau crews assisted Pivot with closing streets impacted by landslides and flooding that could have impacted the water system.
 And whereas the Bureau of Emergency Services engineers, watershed managers, and operators manage the city's, sorry, environmental services, manage the city's cold water system to meet the unprecedented demands of the 100-year storm.
 And whereas Portland Fire and Rescue responded to 109 calls related to severe weather, approximately a 15% increase from previous years. Calls for service included power lines down and arching, structure fires, flooded buildings, landslides, rollover accidents, and a tree that fell into a home and killed a resident. And whereas the disability program partnered with local agencies to coordinate communications services, access, and functional needs for people with disabilities.
 And whereas Portland Parks and Recreation staff responded to 59 tree emergencies, provided assistance to homeowners in need, and worked to address landslides and other hazards to keep park users safe and protect park assets, including Pinnock Mansion and Forest Park,
 and whereas portland parks and recreation staff worked with the red cross to open mount scott community center as a shelter for people impacted by the flooding and maintain community access to essential programs and services now therefore be it resolved that the city council declares the city of portland employees to be the best city employees in the world here here thank you very much i may we suspend the rules we may thank you all great work
 We'd like to have everybody up so we can take some pictures. Okay. We should see if there's any testimony and take a vote. Oh, that's right. Sorry about that. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Roll call, please. Thank you.
 Britt. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Thank you to all of our city employees. I think everybody pulled together extraordinarily well, and as expected, we know how well we react both in good times and in normal times, and in bad times. I want to also thank the staff at the Information and Referral Center, the 823-4000 number, who also had a hugely increased number of calls and, as usual, directed them all to the right places. I...
 Fish. Thanks to all our city employees for making this proud day possible. Aye. Holtzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Great work, and let's hope for a nice mild remainder of the winter so that you don't have to work quite those many hours under quite those same conditions again this year. Thank you very much. Aye. Okay, let's do take that picture. Come on up. I think we can all squeeze in.
 Thank you.
 Over here. Over here. Thank you. Okay. Let's move on, please, to item number 19. Okay.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with law enforcement agencies for the use of the Police Bureau training complex. Captain Parman is here to talk about this implementation of one of the very ideas behind building this training facility in the first place. Yes, sir. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Brian Parman. I'm currently the captain of the training division at the Portland Police Bureau.
 So we're here today to present an ordinance. And just as a little bit of background, the facility opened in September of 2014. And so we spent a little over a year using the facility, working the bugs out as far as how we safely move people around the building. And during the entire time we've been open, in fact –
 Even prior to opening, we've had many, many requests from other agencies. They want to come and use the facility to train their members as well. We have had some limited usage by other city bureaus and by other outside agencies during the last year, but we really wanted to...
 formalize our process and so we've worked with the city attorney's office to develop an intergovernmental agreement that will allow us to make our facility available for use when the police bureau is not using it to train and we've developed a fee structure that will aid in cost recovery which will help to offset the operating costs for the facility.
 So those fees, Captain, are designed to fully recover our incremental additional costs, right? So we're spreading the cost of the facility over more users. Yes.
 Right, and in developing the fee structure, we worked with other comparable facilities here in the region. For example, we're not the only indoor range in the region, so the rates that we charge for our range are comparable to other facilities. And we're trying to balance full-cost recovery against what other agencies can pay. We know firsthand, having spent decades running facilities for our members, what a burden it can be. And so trying to balance...
 access to a state-of-the-art training facility against the, you know, it does cost us to keep the lights on. Yeah. Commissioner Fritz? That's a very noble willingness to share with other jurisdictions. However, the taxpayers of Portland spend $18 million to buy this facility. So just getting cost recovery for keeping the lights on for outside agencies doesn't seem to me to be the right
 in terms of the fees, and it's particularly because this IGA intergovernmental agreement sets the standard for all the other ones and that you'll be authorized to go ahead and implement them without Council's approval of the others. So I'm really concerned about only getting cost recovery rather than getting back some of the investment that Portland's taxpayers have made in this facility.
 And I can appreciate that point. And so, as I said, we're simply trying to balance what we think other agencies will pay. You know, if our rate is substantially higher than another indoor range, then we won't see usage, and those dollars will go to other jurisdictions for their facilities and not ours. Have you looked at what facilities we have that nobody else has? Because it's a really –
 state-of-the-art facility. Oh, absolutely. The area that what we offer that other facilities don't is our indoor scenario village, which is an area where we can do scenario-based training. And so we set a rate for that. You know, I will point out that the, you know, the rate structure is an appendix to the agreement. It can be modified. You know, it gives us the ability to alter the fee structure based on usage or based on how the market changes as the facility and the market continue to evolve.
 So some of these, in looking at the fee schedule, some of these fees are basically these other agencies use our facility. You know, for example, the driving course, it's there. That $60 an hour doesn't include fees.
 instructors or staff that's just to use that part of the facility right that's a use fee yeah correct it's just to make the facility available when we have to staff the training there is at the very bottom we have after-hours supervision so if people train outside of our normal business hours we are recouping the personnel cost associated with being there to provide access yeah okay so some of this involves
 a small amount of wear and tear and just amortization of whether it's a mock weapon or a piece of asphalt. Yes, exactly. This scenario of village is less expensive to rent than just a simple large classroom. True.
 Yeah, that is correct. If that's something that's special to us, that it's not like we're competing with anybody else, I'd just like you to go back, and as you said, presumably the commissioner in charge can address the free schedule or comes back in the budget. I'd just like that to be a consideration. I think you've raised some good points. I think my suggestion would be we approve this, we give Captain Parman the green light to get going with this, and then see how we're doing.
 like any business, if you will, we'll see how our demand is. And your point about more fully recovering the investment that our citizens have already made is a very reasonable position for us to take, not just operating costs, but some amortization of the investment that we've made. So point taken, and I think none of us is interested in –
 particularly subsidizing other agencies in using this facility. We want to make it available. We want to charge what the market will bear, but also a reasonable return. So fair point, Commissioner. Thank you. I have a follow-up question on that, which is, Captain, how do you define the benefit to us as a city and a force of having sister agencies do some training in our facility? Because I'm guessing there's something in it for us as well beyond just cost recovery.
 well i think there there is and the largest benefit i think that we see is it will it will only outside usage will only improve the communication we have with these agencies and several of these agencies exist within the boundaries of the city the port of portland portland state ohsu and these are agencies that we would partner with uh to respond to large-scale events in their in their small areas of jurisdiction within our city or even on our borders you know the event say like an active shooter in clackamas county and so to the extent
 we have had more time to interact with their staff, and we can all be operating off the same sheet of music, if you will. We'll only improve the metro area response to emergencies.
 Yeah, and so we directly or indirectly benefit from that. It reminds me a little bit of an argument someone made when we were debating JTTF, where someone sort of turned some of the concerns upside down and said, yeah, but by having our officers working with the FBI, we'll have our eyes and ears in there and potentially raise the level of awareness around the issues we care about by participating. Reasonable people can agree or disagree with that argument, but it does seem to me that
 uniform training and communication with our regional partners has a benefit to us if they're doing it at our facility. So that's one thing to consider. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it's going to pass to second reading next week. Okay, item 20.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Far North Nikolai Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E08401, for $4,090,000. Mr. Fish. Thank you. We welcome Scott Gibson and Brandon Wilson here today to present, and I'll just be very brief in my comments. Over one-third of Portland's 2,500 miles of sewer pipes are more than 80 years old.
 This ordinance would authorize a contract for one of the many upcoming projects to replace or repair aging sewer infrastructure. This continuing program protects water quality, public health, and the environment. The Far North Nikolai Sewer Rehabilitation Project would replace about 6,000 feet of sewer pipe that are either failing or are too small. And I'll turn it over to Scott. Welcome. Thank you.
 thank you mr commissioner good morning my name is scott gibson i'm principal engineer with the bureau of environmental services and with me is brandon wilson our project manager for this project we're here requesting authorization for a construction contract and i'll have brandon tell you a short uh give you a short presentation about the project it's a very challenging project and we're here to answer any questions good morning morning
 Yeah. Okay. Well, a little bit of background about the project. The project was originally pre-designed through the Northwest Neighborhoods Combined Sewer Relief Program and later updated in the systems plan from 2012. And as Scott mentioned, the project will relieve sewer backups and rehabilitate century-old pipe. The slide now shows a basic project location. It's bound by 23rd Avenue.
 to the east 31st avenue to the to the west north is reed and it goes all the way down to upshire project goals and objectives as you can see it's been recommended already increasing capacity rehabilitating poor condition pipes
 Also mentioned, we have 6,000 mainline feet of upsize open-cut pipe work and about 2,000 linear feet of mainline cured-in-place trenchless rehabilitation along Vaughan. Public involvement for this project has been pretty extensive. There's been several mailings sent out through Project Design Life to the surrounding community.
 including businesses, industrial, commercial residences. There's hotels. ODOT is also involved with the proximity to the I-405 on-ramp, off-ramp. And there's also an extensive noise review board process for the night work that we're proposing. And there's continued ongoing close coordination with residents concerning specific conditions and concerns.
 just thought i'd mention one aspect of the design through that process of public involvement we've and the feedback that we received we were able to redesign the project instead of the pre-design showing open cut work which would be night work and and disruptive on vaughn we were able to have this flow transfer alternative essentially transferring the bulk of the work north one block to wilson which is a less busy street mostly an industrial neighborhood
 and it should have a lot less impact on the public. As I mentioned here, greatly reduced project night work, traffic disruptions, related noise. The pipes on Vaughan will be rehabilitated with a trenchless method, as I had mentioned before, which still will have some night work at the intersections, but will be considerably less impact we anticipate. Next steps, we plan to advertise this project early 2016, possibly January or February.
 The confidence level is high for the estimate and purchasing agent to report back to council with lowest responsible bid. We anticipate notice to proceed in early this summer, and the construction duration is 15 months. And that concludes the presentation, and we'd like to entertain any questions you might have. Mayor and colleagues, let me just emphasize, in some ways, this is –
 you know, just about the worst possible location to do a major sewer project. It's from time to time I take that route to get over to Thurman to have breakfast at San Honoré. It's already close to being a failed intersection. There's tremendous pressure when you get to 23rd. And we're talking about a major project going up Vaughan. So I, number one, want to just acknowledge that the location creates significant challenges and
 What I think is noteworthy about the approach proposed by BES is that they would do a bulk of the work at night, and they have figured out a way to go over one street.
 and do some of the work there. But there's no sugarcoating the fact that there's businesses, residences, hotels and other things, and a major intersection there. It just unfortunately also happens to be a sewer line. And so, you know, we're caught between a rock and a hard place, but we invite your any suggestions or concerns that you might have. That's a good solution for just those reasons. Other questions, concerns for the team? Thank you both very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, then it will come back on second reading next week. Thank you. Okay, item 21. Grant revocable permit to Track Town Events LLC for street and lane closures needed for activities related to the 2016 World Indoor Track and Field Championships and USA Indoor Track and Field Championships. Commissioner Havik. Okay.
 Colleagues, we've got this big, fat event coming up, which will require some street and lane closures. And fortunately, we have Greg Jones dropping in from his semi-retirement to tell us all about it. Right. A man we won't let go of. Good morning, and I'll try to keep this brief. You've had a long morning. Thank you.
 So with me today are Marlo Maroon, who is the Transportation Manager with TrackTown, Doug Oblitz, our Project Manager, Elizabeth Mahan, and Mark Haynes, our Traffic Engineer, if you have any questions. What this ordinance does is two things. It approves a series of lane and street closures and parking removal in the downtown area and the convention center area.
 during the event period. Normally this would be done administratively by PBOT, but given the profile of the event, we wanted the most transparency around it, so we're bringing it to council to do this as an ordinance.
 The grant is a revocable permit for specific street and lane closures in the downtown area. That would be Morrison from 4th to Broadway, Southwest 6th from Taylor to Morrison, the auto lane only that's on the mall.
 and Southwest Broadway, the East Lane from Alder to Yam Hill. These are all, as you might guess, right around Pioneer Square, which will be the hub of the event for downtown Portland's center of the Athletic Village area.
 We recognize these are significant closures, but we also have two other closures over on the Convention Center area. So at the west side of the Convention Center, Southwest First, and Oregon, which leads underneath I-5 to Southwest First, and that will be the staging area for emergency vehicles.
 We have been working with TrackTown for nine months now to develop a transportation plan for the event, including shuttle buses, carpool systems, routes back and forth between downtown and the convention center area.
 And these closures are necessary in order to provide for quick movement from the hotels for the athletes to the shuttle buses and the carpools for the dignitaries to get them to and from the convention center during this event. These events are timed events. It's essential that the competitors are there at the right time. They don't miss their preliminaries and final heats.
 We have done extensive outreach over the last two months for the adjacent property owners and businesses. We've sent flyers out, and I can hand those out to you. We've connected with all of the adjacent property owners and businesses. We've met with the Portland Business Alliance. We have talked with ODOT, with Multnomah County, with the Portland Police Bureau, who we've worked carefully with.
 and generally we have a plan here that I think will work. We're going to continue to work to try to mitigate, to the degree possible, the closures and impacts, but this is sort of the base for the permit right now. I have some questions. Sure. We all got a copy of a letter the Portland Business Alliance sent to Leah Treat, which asked that,
 It raises some concerns about impacts on businesses due to these closures. But I guess one of the – and also some other – Right. What I thought are salient points, restrooms. So –
 What are we doing in terms of providing additional restrooms for everybody that's going to be there? Restrooms are a little out of my area of responsibility in transportation, but Tracktown has agreed to work with the Square Management Agency to determine what is the best way to accommodate restrooms in that area for the –
 spectators as well as the participants. So they will be having restrooms in the VIP areas for the
 the teams and for the dignitaries, we need to continue to work with the square management in terms of what additional facilities may be needed. Another point they raise is using professional flaggers versus volunteers. Right. So I think that's a huge issue. I mean, you're going to have angry motorists. Right. And you don't want to have volunteers fighting.
 dealing with angry motors? I think that was a misunderstanding with the Business Alliance. We will require our standard requirements for street and lane closures, which require professional traffic management companies and professional flaggers at the major intersections.
 Track Town will be supplementing that with volunteers to aid pedestrians and other people that are trying to get to the square or get to the hotels. Finally, how many parking spaces in our Smart Park garages are we going to be?
 We're looking at about 40 spaces for the week in the Morrison garage, which has the capacity right now. They're all running close to their about 80%, 85% capacity. But in working with the smart park managers, they feel that there's going to be adequate room in that garage. What's the precedent for closures of this scale? I mean, I know that –
 We sometimes have large-scale events at Pioneer Courthouse Square, and the police create a buffer like the Christmas tree lighting event. Sometimes because of the number of people there, we temporarily close parts of Broadway for safety reasons. Yes.
 obviously for on weekends for sporting events like we had that that event on broadway that was exactly the do the do festival uh of that last summer right and that was closed on up but it was on a weekend and i i mean we have occasionally parades and things what what's what's the when have we done something of this magnitude that that um that falls on on um on work days
 this is probably the the largest event downtown where we've had a closure of this magnitude uh but we've had we've had similar types of closures the major league soccer event a couple years ago the dew festival um we've had uh runs and other activities that generally are on weekends though with the mls event which i'm intimately familiar with we we did close up east west street to get people from director park to this the stadium but it was it was
 It was narrowly framed, and a lot of work went into picking that route. It was not a prominent route like Broadway. And we're talking about on multiple days where there's rush hour and commuting. So have other alternatives been explored?
 that are short of closing Broadway to Northbound traffic for such an extent? So clarification first. The closure on Broadway is only the east lane. It is not the entire street.
 And that is primarily for loading and unloading activities at the square. So buses and trucks will be queuing up as they approach the square to load and unload. We are going to continue to look at possibly being able to mitigate that, open these closures at night, and potentially look at during rush hour closures
 But we still need to do a little bit more work on that. So what's the arrangement under our policy for any of the foregone revenue for parking revenue either on street or elsewhere? Right. How does that get covered? So this is fully cost recoverable back to the Bureau. And it will come out of the general fund grant that was given to Tracktown this fall.
 and those costs that the Bureau incurs will come back to the Bureau out of that general fund allocation. So it's part of the $1. something million that we allocated? That's right, yes. And, I mean, the city is, in my judgment, there's nary a request that Tracktown has made that we haven't in good faith tried to meet.
 although sometimes I think it falls under the heading of no good deed goes unpunished. On this, have we considered alternatives so that we wouldn't have to do as much disruption in this area? We've extensively modeled and looked at ways to move the athletes and the dignitaries from this area. Let's take the dignitaries out of it because I'm less concerned about the dignitaries. Okay.
 athletes getting to start times and things, I think. We're an informal city. We don't normally move mountains for the dignitaries. We let people rough it a little bit. But if there's some compelling need to get athletes to a place safely, have we considered alternatives? Yes, we have. We went through a long series of exercises to try and find out what the best routing would be and what the minimal disruption would be. And this is your best recommendation? And this is our best recommendation. Okay.
 And does this take into account maybe just taking the athletes' stuff in the cars and letting them use our wonderful light rail system, which to me is the most reliable and the most comfortable way of getting from Pioneer Square to the convention center? Yes, we've had long discussions with TriMet, and each athlete will be given a transit pass as a part of their accreditation, so they will be able to use the light rail system to move back and forth.
 But we need to recognize that many of these athletes are coming from overseas, and many of them are non-English-speaking athletes. And then these types of events, they're accustomed to having a shuttle bus pick them up at their hotel and take them to the event.
 Now, we're hoping that they will take advantage of their transit pass and will learn how to use the system. And that may reduce the amount of closure and restrictions that we need to apply. But we can't guarantee that at this point. And we need to certify to the international body that we've met the contractual requirement for the transportation system.
 A lot of them probably come from countries with better transit systems than ours, so they're probably quite used to running transit. And we have over 80 mutual assistance associations in Portland of people in the immigrant and refugee communities who might be asked through the New Portlanders program to –
 the ambassadors and help in their native language tell people, the MAX is really a great way to get from A to B. Absolutely. We are going to do extensive outreach to the entire athlete team community to encourage them to use the transit system. And we've been working with TriMet. They've been a part of our committee for the last nine months. I assume some of your –
 the stopping point here for you and for uh track town i assume is that the iwaf has certain expectations that go with a venue regardless of the presence regardless of the fact exactly actually not the best way to get from a to b right so we have to meet those contractual obligations and um with the hope that the athletes will choose to use um the transit and by the way if we have a disagreement with the governing body we resolve this through arbitration of the hague is
 I believe so. You may have to talk to the French financial police as well. By the way, since you're recommending this as the least intrusive alternative, so the essential bus service, the essential MAX service, and any accessible services that we run downtown so that people can get around, none of those will be impacted by this? That's right. All of the normal transit services will be available.
 And we'll provide vehicle passes for the federal courthouse so that the judges and their staff can get to the Pioneer Square courthouse without any disruption at all.
 And Tracktown's also working with the Nines Hotel to provide continued valet service at their front. Mayor, this is going to create enormous havoc downtown since we're talking about lots of people, lots of competing uses, lots of public safety issues. You know –
 We have a proud tradition in this city of not having police officers or other sworn personnel do traffic management for some reason. But most other cities you go to where there's significant public safety issues, there is someone in uniform. And I hope on this one we can make sure that we have the right people in those choke points handling public safety because there's going to be –
 significant conflict. Could I just draw your attention to the business alliance letter and let's reframe that in terms of it's going to be an extremely vibrant event at which a lot of people are going to want to be downtown and we want to make sure that we are safe. Yes. Right. And
 Right. And I think, obviously, Diana Nunez is here coordinating this in my office. Doug Obis is here. All the bureaus are involved. Today we're talking about street closure, but the Police Bureau and every other bureau that has any skin in this game is involved. So it
 point taken about trying to make sure it works. I guess I'd like to have somebody, as Greg said, this is beyond your expertise. I want to have somebody from Tracktown talk about restrooms for the general public. Actually, I have a comment on the restrooms. My understanding is that the Pioneer Courthouse Square doesn't allow additional porta-potties for any event there, so I would suggest that we look at solutions such as for the
 rose parade such as we had for the mls final um the portland marathon where we have porta potties available at other places than pioneer courthouse square yeah i just want to hear that it's being thought about beyond vips and dignified i think i think doug probably doug's here so doug can we put you on the right person about this and other issues
 Morning. Doug Oblitz with Tracktown. Nice to see you again, Mayor. It's been a while. Yeah, we were there checking out the new track last night. It's amazing. So the event at Piner Square is being carefully constructed with the experienced staff at Piner Square, Jen Pulver and her staff, and we're going to continue to work on the restroom plan, but we already have access to what I've
 I've been told it's the busiest restroom in the city of Portland. That's the one inside the square. So typically for Pioneer Square events, that's the main source. We are supplementing, as Greg mentioned, with some additional porta-potties on the activation area itself, and we're happy to work with Pioneer Square and Parks and other agencies if we want to put porta-potties elsewhere in the vicinity. I would say put porta-potties elsewhere in the vicinity. Okay. Okay.
 Okay. One person's opinion. Other questions. And I have someone provided me a hand-annotated version of the Portland Business Alliance letter, in which it sounds like a lot of these requests that they've made are being agreed to, or at least in part. So there's continuing dialogue about their concerns here.
 With you and the others involved? That's correct. And the Bureau and elsewhere. I spoke with the business alliance this morning, and I committed to getting them a response back next week before the final vote on this item. Okay, good. It might be helpful if you could share that with the council. We will. In some format, maybe a little more formal than this. Okay, other questions for Greg or Doug? Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Anyone else want to speak on this item?
 Come on up. Hello again. Good morning. I'm Charles Johnson, for the record. And I just want to primarily congratulate Commissioner Schaltzman on his enthusiasm for the issue of safe, clean, sanitary places for people of Portland to perform their bodily functions. It's actually not just an issue for during track down time. It's something we actually need to be mindful of.
 all the time as we deal with our houseless situation and the many people that sleep along 5th and 6th Avenue. That's right. I said the streets that we're closing are people's homes. People sleep on 5th Avenue here just like they do in New York City. I know that we have a shelter coming, but back to this issue of track, the athletic event. There's really...
 I thought I have seen fenced in, paid to get to porta-potties in Pioneer Square. So I'm sure that in that vicinity, especially for closing a lane of traffic, that seems like a beautiful place to put public services, as in a public street that's been closed to the public. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, any other questions about this then this is a non emergency ordinance It passes to second reading and Greg will get those responses back to counsel. Thank you item 22
 Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Northeast Gleason Street and Northeast 90th Avenue bridge replacement project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Second reading roll call. Ritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And we're recessed until 2 p.m.
 let's have council return to order welcome everybody which please read the roll call the roll yeah here no Vic yeah Hales here welcome everyone we have two items on the agenda this afternoon why don't you read both and we'll take them in turn
 Item 23, direct the City of Portland to implement the Charles Jordan Rule, also known as the Rooney Rule, when making direct appointments. And 24, direct council offices and city bureaus to submit direct appointment reports on a semi-annual basis.
 I want to bring up some of our leadership from the city, namely Anna Canlitt and Dante James, and perhaps others as well soon after them to talk us through these two proposals. I want to thank Sam Sachs in particular who's here as well because you're the guy that called this to our attention and called us to hold our own values up and follow them. So thank you, Sam, and that's why we're here today, and we appreciate you.
 So with that, let's turn it over to Anna and Dante to walk us through these resolutions. I know we've got some proposed amendments, at least one of them, and we'll take those up as well. Okay, great. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, Anna Kenwitt, Director of the Bureau of Human Resources. Pleased to be here today to introduce the Charles Jordan rule, soon to be amended to be a standard, as I understand it.
 It's interesting that today seems to be the day for equity initiatives by the City of Portland. Earlier this morning, I participated as a member of a panel providing information on workforce equity on behalf of the government director for the racial equity that we are a member of, the government alliance.
 So the genesis of the city's Charles Jordan rule stems from the National Football League's Rooney Rule, which in essence has required each team with a coach or general manager opening to interview at least one qualified minority candidate. Oregon has a similar statute on its books. The Charles Jordan rule family, as you know, has graciously allowed the city to use his name, reflects his longstanding commitment to diversity and equity issues.
 as well as the city's continuance of that commitment. If adopted, this provides another tool for the city to use to increase its diversity of our workforce, and most particularly at the highest levels of the workforce, the category of bureau directors. Thank you.
 It is not, as I have stated before, our only tool and shouldn't be viewed as that. But we are hopeful that adoption of this will help in our efforts to diversify the city at our highest levels.
 One thing I wanted to point out that the Charles Drouden rule before you does go a step further from the Rooney rule, as it includes not only minority candidates, but also those who identify as a person with a disability. This is also in keeping with city council's past resolution that the city become a model employer of persons with a disability. So we believe that was an important addition to the rule.
 The Charles Jordan rule provides that whenever the commissioner in charge decides to utilize a formal recruitment process, they must interview any qualified minority candidates and any qualified candidates who identify as a person with a disability. The resolution does acknowledge and retain the commissioner in charge's discretion to directly appoint a bureau director and does not require this interview process when hiring through a directorate.
 when the Commissioner-at-Charge has already identified an ideal candidate. I do urge you to pass the resolution. As I earlier stated, I think its passage provides yet another tool in our basket as we make every effort to increase diversity at every level of our workforce. Thank you. Thank you.
 Dante. Thank you. Dante James, Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Good afternoon, Council. I'm very pleased to bring this resolution in conjunction with the Charles Jordan rule that is essentially a direct appointment reporting protocol. There's been discussion about the process for use of human resources, regular process for hiring.
 And there is also an ability for managers, supervisors, and bureau directors as well as commissioners to go outside of that particular process and directly appoint someone to a position. So in looking at that process, direct appointments can be used to increase diversity. They can be used in a way that is oblivious to diversity. And so this is an opportunity to try to gather exactly how it's being used in the city.
 And so in discussions with HR and Anna and others, there was an opportunity to talk about a process that would require a waiver first before a direct deployment could be done. That was part of the conversation, but also later.
 in hearing more that before we even went there, we needed to know how in fact it was being used before we placed a particular restriction on its use. And so this protocol would require, one, all bureau directors to sign off on any and all direct appointments in their bureau. It would require then reporting by commissioners as well as bureau directors on a semi-annual basis.
 for the demographics of those appointments, the positions that they were appointed to, whether the position is management, supervisory, et cetera, whether the ethnicity, gender, and status as a veteran or person with a disability for any direct appointment, and then whether that position is going to be
 then advertise within the next 12 months because what we often see is for temporary appointments, that person is then just slid into a full-time position, permanent position, which then doesn't allow for community members to participate in the process. And so that's essentially what this is. It's a reporting protocol. So we can then determine at the end of a one-year period and two reporting periods whether
 what it looks like, and then my office will be able to come back with recommendations based on the data that's been derived from the reporting.
 Mayor and commissioners, I wanted to comment on this as well. Yes, please, go ahead. If this is a good time to do that. I think this is a really important first step. One of the things that Office of Equity and Human Rights has been stating, and again in the seminar I was a panel today, that we need to be metrics driven in order to determine whether we really are meeting our goals around equity and diversity. And in this case, we simply don't have the data to tell us exactly
 what temporary appointments the impact of temporary appointments on our workforce as Dante noted when you come into the city as a temporary when we do recruitment if you already in that job generally you have an advantage you know the job people know you and that can work in both ways we know that people have brought in persons of color women as temporary employees and have
 move to permanent jobs, but we also know that white males have been brought in as temporaries as well. Other than our data around our focused outreach program, we have not tracked temporary appointments in this manner, nor have we looked at what the next step is. Do the temporary employees then become permanent employees? So is that a pipeline that's being used? Right.
 So I think this is before we get to the waiver type issue that Dante brought up, it's really important to have this data as well so that we actually know the impact of this practice. Great. Questions? So I guess when I've gone through bureau director recruitment processes, I've never known the race of the applicants. How is that going to change under this rule? Yeah.
 It really would only change in terms of...
 In the interview process, it can be known that a person, their race will be identified to you. Either sometimes people raise it, sometimes it is observable, and similar with a person of disability with people self-disclosed, but it generally is going to be observable. That is the goal of this, to make sure minorities and people with disabilities and women,
 make it to the interview round but up right we provide I mean I've looked at those BHR collect yes the racial information we would we collect that information and then we would be providing that to the commissioner in charge we collect that now so yeah okay so there's something routinely
 No, we do not routinely communicate that. In this case, in terms of the implementation, I think a best practice would be to ask permission from the candidate to provide that information. We obtain it in confidence. Anna, I want to turn to the second resolution about compiling the data.
 Do we have any current sense of what percentage of council hires are either direct appointments or competitive hires?
 In terms of bureau directors or just generally? In terms of council offices. Oh. This appears to cover council offices and city bureaus. Yes. I don't know. My sense is that there are more direct appointments than recruitments, in part given the nature of the work in terms of policy advisors. I know often –
 looking at recent graduates from places like Portland State who have degrees in urban policy development, those kinds of things. Often it is by word of mouth of a candidate that we're aware of that, like for our focused outreach program, we have offered candidates. I know Commissioner Saltzman hired one of those in his office. But, I mean,
 But, I mean, for example, in the council offices, the people we hire serve at will. Yes. They don't have the civil service protection. They don't have the contract protection. So traditionally, in the political offices, we've seen – we viewed employees hired by commissioners as different than bureau employees. Is that correct? Yes. And so the purpose of the resolution, at least at this stage, is to make sure we collect good data at the bureau level and the council office.
 but it doesn't presuppose we're going to treat them the same down the road when we look at the data. No, it doesn't change their status at all. And the resolution does explicitly exclude seasonal and casuals. I mean, in recognition of the number of those employees currently that we do, obviously via direct appointment, so that would not be included in the reporting. But the reporting part does not change the employee status. It doesn't, you know, change them from at-will to regular employees.
 So, Dante, given that the council offices, the employees of council offices are at will, and they're political offices, so people are hired or campaign managers or people that have preexisting relationships, and they come and go. I think for the record, it would be important for you to explain why you think council offices should be treated the same as city bureaus, where employees have a plethora of protections. Sure.
 Well, in the same way, I mean, I have no protection at this point. I mean, it was a two-year contract and it's gone. I mean, I think the short answer is that I'm asking council to be under the same reporting requirements as all of the bureaus with the expectation that council do what it says it wants to do, which is be conscious of the diversity in the city. Yeah, so you might walk us through the council staff, bureau directors –
 are commissioner appointees in each case and they're all at will. That's correct. And there are a few other classifications by ordinance since the charter was reformed that we, by ordinance through council, have designated as at will also due to policy level duties in those positions. Okay.
 but primarily bureau directors and council offices so deputy directors deputy directors would fall into that second category of because of the policy making responsibilities of those positions there are at will my labor relations manager is also in that category because of the policy type decisions that he makes or recommendations at will appointees that can be direct appointed by bureau directors yes
 Or they can go through a competitive process? Yes. So they have the same discretion for those hires that we have, and both hiring entities, whether it's one of us or one of you, as Bureau Directors, will have this reporting requirement? Correct. Okay. So following up on Commissioner Solskam's question, what percentage of our applicants currently disclose their demographic information?
 I don't know that, Commissioner Fritz. I'd have to get back to you on that. So it is, I know we have a higher percentage in terms of gender and ethnicity than we do for persons with disability, although that, of course, is based somewhat on just anecdotal information because it is difficult to know what you don't know. But that is my understanding from discussions that we have had.
 And then veteran status, of course, because of the preference associated with it, are much more likely to self-identify. And so are we allowed to put on our hiring applications that we have this Charles Jordan standard and that people with disabilities and minorities have a likely chance of getting interviewed?
 I would not recommend putting that on the job announcements. We do have our general statement in terms of qualified persons of color, et cetera, being encouraged to apply for city's positions. And I think that's probably the language we would still want to keep on our announcements. I'm a little concerned if we don't know. For veterans preference, people have to state that they're requesting veterans preference, and then we have to interview all veterans that are minimally qualified. Are we...
 potentially going to get into difficulties by having this policy that then somebody says, well, I wasn't interviewed? That's a very good question, Commissioner. There is always a possibility, of course. I think in this case, we hope it would be relatively minimal, particularly the way the resolution is worded, where we're talking about
 qualifications still retaining some discretion over the you know number of people who might be interviewed and also you know looking at a voluntary disclosure so but I think there's always a possibility unfortunately well that's a good segue into my proposed amendments colleagues that I just handed out a slightly revised version with a language suggested by Miss can wet
 And these are amendments to the Charles Jordan rule rather than the direct reporting rule. The first one is to change any qualified minority candidate to any of the highest qualified minority candidates.
 I think to imply that there might only be one minority candidate seems to be setting the bar a little low and that we should be saying that we're going to interview the highest qualified minority candidates and the highest quality candidates who identify as a person with a disability. If there is more than one qualified candidate, the commissioner in charge or designee retains the discretion to determine the number of qualified candidates who will be interviewed. Thank you.
 So that's my first motion. We want to include that with the discussion. Okay. And let's just go through this. I'll second that for the purpose of discussion. I've got basically a housekeeping amendment as well, but go ahead. So the second one builds on the first one, and it addresses the issue of qualified women candidates. Our city demographics dashboard of April 2015 shows that 65% of all managers and supervisors are male compared with 35% female.
 and that overall city employees are 58 percent male, 42 percent female. For bureau directors, 70 percent are male and only 30 percent are female. So given that this pattern is so clear, I would like to add the highest qualified women candidates as a category that commissioners should be considering when they're deciding who to interview. So that's my second amendment. I'm going to second it for purpose of discussion. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Then adding to an additional further be it resolved, I didn't underline this one because it's all additional, be it further resolved that commissioners will report on the process chosen for bureau director selection, including the number of minorities, women, and people with disabilities interviewed concurrently with the direct appointment report for direct hires within bureaus and council offices.
 So if you look at the second resolution, it doesn't require any reporting from commissioners about their bureau director selections, and it doesn't require any reporting on the success of the first ordinance. And so that's, I think we need to have some data to find out what's happening, and a transparent process and doing it concurrently with the direct appointment report seems to make sense. Yes.
 Seconded for discussion. Thank you. And then the final amendment is to add a further be it resolved that the Bureau of Human Resources shall investigate hiring or contracting with a company with expertise in recruiting minorities, women and people with disabilities to assist in the recruitment and hiring of bureau directors and upper management positions listed as open recruitment. I think if we're really going to get serious and make this Charles Jordan standard something that will actually produce results,
 We need to put our money where our mouths are and hire headhunters or whatever the polite term for headhunters is to help get the word out that we've got a high-level position or high-level positions available and that we're welcoming people of all kinds to come and apply for them. So if I may second it and may I speak to that for a moment? Sure. Go ahead, please. So I had a similar amendment I was going to offer. I think Commissioner Fritz has captured the spirit of what my concern was.
 The lesson that I've learned as a result of supervising a lot of searches for bureau directors and high-level positions is that perhaps the single most important thing that we do during the process is go upstream and recruit. If what we do is put an ad in the scanner and send out an email and use a couple of listservs,
 we're not honoring the process in terms of affirmatively seeking and recruiting the most qualified people. And the most qualified people for some of these high-level positions that we're looking for are also being recruited by other public and private institutions. And at the very elite level, there's heavy competition. And you and I have talked about this, Anna, that
 that it is essential that we go upstream and we take affirmative steps to identify talent and recruit talent. Now, in supporting this, this is not intended directly or indirectly to be a criticism of the current HR team, but it's a recognition that in a highly competitive national environment,
 having a third-party consultant to help us could give us the extra advantage we need to make sure we secure the most talented people. So that's the spirit in which I support that. I have a potential amendment, Mayor, and a question. Okay. Back to you, Dante. Okay.
 One thing that struck me about the resolution is this is the year in which we've made some significant breakthroughs in another area of discrimination, which is the historic discrimination against people based on sexual orientation. And we still have a lot of work to do. We can't get federal protections passed, for example. Why limit it to race, ethnicity, gender, status as a veteran and person with a disability? Why isn't the city of Portland including sexual orientation as a Category 4 reporting tool?
 There was no specific reason not to include it, so I'm happy to accept it. We don't ask people that on the application. Yeah, it's not where you're going to get the information, I guess, would be my question. Most of the people...
 Most of the people from the LGBTQ community that I've hired, and given the times we live in, are very explicit about their sexuality. And I think it is vitally important that city government reflect the growing diversity of our community, which includes the LGBTQ community. We already have a city code policy that requires non-discrimination, including for— We have the same code that applies to every other category here. We've left out sexual minorities.
 We have race, ethnicity, we have gender, we have status as a veteran, a person with a disability. It strikes me we've at least left out one category, which is disability.
 which is someone who identifies as a member of the LGBTQ community, and we have very specific policies about welcoming and not discriminating against people in that community. Commissioner, I think it would be something that I need to check on because it isn't something we ask now in our application process, but I don't.
 for sure know why we don't ask it. We tend to stay with sort of the federal categories in terms of that kind of information that we're asking, so I'd need to do a little more research. It doesn't necessarily affect the amendment. I'm just not sure we have that data. I think we should take a look at state law more than federal law since federal law is lacking. Correct, yes. That makes sense. I guess my only comment, Commissioner, would be that –
 The other identities that are being identified are, in fact, very visible, whereas sexual orientation may not be or is not in the same way. And so the expectation is that you're reporting on what you know and – how am I trying to say this?
 With the expectation that you would do better outreach based on a lack, if you will, for lack of a better term, in these other categories, whereas you may not in fact know but have a staff full of people who identify as gay or LGBTQ. So there's no way to identify that. That opens the door to a rather contentious conversation about status. I'm going back to an old-fashioned view of status, which is you either have a protected status or you don't.
 And in this state, you do. And so if we are saying that we are going to try to hire a workforce that is reflective of the community at large and we have specific language about nondiscrimination against LGBTQ, it seems to me, and they are protected status under state law, it seems to me we should not exclude them. Do we have any evidence that our city of Portland employees don't reflect that?
 diversity of sexual orientations of the city at large. I think the purpose of this resolution is to capture data so that we can make judgments about our hiring policies generally. We wouldn't be doing this exercise if we had good data. I guess I'm pondering your point, Commissioner Fish, and obviously Anna and Dante are as well. I think it deserves thought and consideration. I think...
 and I want to give Sam Sachs an opportunity to come up in a minute, as well as members of the Jordan family who are here if they'd like to. But what we're trying to address here by adopting a Portland version of the Rooney Rule and then starting to collect this data is that we have clear and convincing evidence of underrepresentation when it comes to people of color, people with disabilities in the ranks of our top managers. I'm not sure if we have that kind of evidence of underrepresentation.
 for the LGBTQ community. So it doesn't mean your point's invalid. It's just that it's coming into a different door than this idea was brought to us through. Well, the Rooney rule, in fairness, I'm talking about the second resolution, which talks about collecting data. Right, I understand. Which I did not understand as initially part of the Rooney rule. And if we're going to collect data for purposes of making judgments, are there disparities? Are we being consistent with our policies? Are we taking steps? Yes.
 It seems to me we ought to cast as broad a net as possible to collect the good data, and I'm not suggesting we compel people to disclose their status. Many of the people that I know who have sought employment from the community or have current jobs are employees.
 proud and open and out about their status. So I don't think, I think in this day and age, that's less a concern. Yeah, I hear you. Okay. If we can, maybe let's take that topic up and not, it doesn't sound like you're quite yet ready to propose an amendment, but you might be.
 I have one more amendment, which is just a housekeeping one, which I'd like to put on the table, and that is it's already been referred to here in discussion, and that is we should refer to this as the Charles Jordan standard rather than the Charles Jordan rule in the text of the first resolution. So I would move that amendment. Second. Okay. Other? Question or comment on amendment number three?
 Just from my understanding, it's a request that there's a reporting on the process that was used after a hiring has been done. Is that correct? For bureau directors. Okay. Because there's no requirement for that under the Charles Jordan standard. No. And it's not covered by the current language in the direct appointment. I guess I would...
 Suggest that it is if commissioners are required on a semi-annual basis to report on the number of positions that they've hired outside of an HR recruitment process. So I think, in fact, it is covered unless I'm missing something. The process is not. No. The individuals who were hired are. Right. But there's nothing that says if you went through the HR process, yes.
 How many people did you interview who are people of color, people with disabilities, and hopefully people who are women? That part is not covered. You either say you did a direct process or you did the – and if you had a direct appointment, you have to say who it is or what the demographics of that person. But we don't get the feedback on is our process working to at least get more people interviewed. I understand. So I guess – Is the way your Third Amendment – is it your intent that that be aggregate data?
 Yes, although I doubt many of us have more than one bureau director appointment every six months. No, no, no, but, I mean, we get into this. There are some candidates who fall short, who don't like, who have expressed a reservation about having their names. Oh, yeah, no, no, I wasn't expecting that we put. When I say aggregate, I mean, what am I saying? Basically de-identified, yes, de-identified. Well, just as the number of minorities, women, and people with disabilities. It doesn't say who were they. They were, okay.
 well I want to discuss these amendments a bit more but I suggest in this case actually that we might want to have Sam and again if any members of the Jordan family want to speak about this and take some other public testimony and then return to it I had a couple of comments on them but I'll wait until the discussion is Commissioner Fish's point a little more and then we can take that up as an amendment if you'd like at that point okay thank you both and then Sam please come on up Dion or anyone else from the Jordan family if you'd like to come on up
 Appreciate you again bringing this good thing forward to us. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, members of the council. My name is Sam Sachs, and this has been a fantastic conversation, very exciting to be here. As you know, I came in front of this body almost a year ago to make a suggestion that city council –
 do a better job of identifying people of color when seeking out directors and interviewing at least one qualified minority candidate. And this comes from the Rooney Rule, just a brief history. In 2002 or 2003, I believe, the NFL created the Rooney Rule because they saw disparity, overwhelming disparity of candidates
 the lack of minority coaches in the NFL. Majority of the players are black or minority, and I think at the time they had maybe one or two out of the 28 teams were black coaches. And at that time, 132 of the NCAA players
 Division I programs, there was, I believe, six minority coaches, and 50 to 55 percent of the players were minorities. So the Rooney Rule, once it was implemented in the NFL, requires each –
 team to really do engagement. There's outreach and there's engagement. Outreach, I think, is what Commissioner Fish was talking about when you send an email to listserv and you let people know in the scanner. Engagement is really actually going out into the community or contacting somebody and saying, hey, we, and identifying some candidate, qualified candidate, and saying, we want to interview you. Once the Rooney Rule was implemented in the NFL, minority hiring went up 23%.
 It's fluctuated since then. And in 2009, the state of Oregon became the first state in the country to pass a law which covers all state-funded schools. When I initially took it to the state...
 The House of Representatives, it was just for football, for head coaching football coaches. The Housing Education Committee decided to include, much like a discussion you're having here today, to include all coaches. And so now volleyball, baseball, every coach at a state-funded school, if a job comes open, they have to interview a qualified minority candidate and athletic director first.
 So I decided to bring that idea here. I think it works when you don't have to, from my understandings, you don't have to have a process or interview or open it up for people, but you can interview.
 And that's why I brought this to you is to say if the city of Portland is really serious about diversity and equity and does want to advance that goal or that goal.
 you know that that message then i think this is the way to do it because i think once you do that you're going to see members of our own staff employees in each bureau are now going to be encouraged they're they're going to feel like they can um they can rise to the top here people from the from out the throughout the country will want to come to portland
 I know this because whenever a head coaching job comes open in Oregon, I hear a lot of coaches from across the country call me and say, hey, can you let me know or can you put my name in? So I think Portland will be a destination where people of color and people with disability will look to when director positions come open.
 So I strongly encourage you to pass the Charles Jordan standard, and I really appreciate the conversation. I know that it's not perfect, and by that I mean there are so many other things that can be added to it to make it even better, to include people with disabilities is included, and just to really do a much better job of including those who are underrepresented in our community. Thank you.
 Thank you. And congratulations for your advocacy on this, and thank you for your passion around this issue. We have a bunch of amendments we're looking at, and I wanted to start with Commissioner Fritz has proposed in her First Amendment narrowing the category to the highest qualified rather than any qualified. You in your prepared remarks talked about a qualified. Okay.
 do you have a strong view about this and and we're balancing a number of things i will i will say just my own experience going through a lot of searches that um highest qualified to me means a person is a real contender by virtue of the screening process and the ratings that come out of the i set up an independent panel of insiders and outsiders to screen uh we do a competitive process and
 any is a larger pool, and it may include people that are not likely to be considered for the job. Do you have a view of that?
 Yeah, Commissioner, Mayor, Commissioner, members of council, I was going to try not to talk about the Pittsburgh Steelers today. Why not? They go to the playoffs. Yes, they're in the playoffs now. It's going to be impossible now because of your question. I would say to that, Mike Tomlin, when the Pittsburgh Steelers went to hire a new coach after Bill Cowher stepped down, they had to interview one qualified minority candidate to fit in with the Rooney rule.
 And what they did was they interviewed a coordinator, not a defensive coordinator, but actually a position coach. Mike Tomlin was a position coach with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. I believe he was a defensive back coach. So he may not have been the most highly qualified of minority candidates out there, but he was interviewed and ultimately selected over two other candidates.
 white coaches um coach grimm and coach wizenhunt who everyone believed would get the get the job so my point is i think when you say highest qualified there may be somebody out there even that works in the city
 that maybe they're not the highest qualified individual, but they have a chance and they get into an interview and they blow you away and you decide to choose them. So I don't know if I would say highest qualified. I think, to keep it simple, a qualified minority candidate. Sorry, a or any? A qualified minority candidate. A. A. Well, that's important because, I mean, the highest –
 I think that's what the intent of her amendment is. Yeah, to get away from tokenism and to have all of the highest qualified minority candidates be interviewed. Commissioner, members of the council. You don't have to do that here. We're not the state. Okay. Yeah.
 I don't think that tokenism, you know, I hear that a lot in the process through this journey. People would say that Mike Tomlin's interview was tokenism because he wasn't the highest qualified. But he's been to two Super Bowls, and he has won one. So you don't really know who you're going to hire. You really don't know.
 if they're the most qualified or they're going to perform the best until you interview that individual. So tokenism isn't a word that I really get into much in this discussion, along with reverse racism, because I don't think there is tokenism. Tokenism to me is you say, well, we're going to interview a qualified minority candidate, and you interview somebody who's black that works in, say, parks that doesn't.
 you know, is qualified because they work for the city, but they're not qualified to be the bureau director for water. And so that, to me, would be tokenism, is just picking somebody to fill the interview.
 So I think I can, I don't know if I can quite match you on football jargon, football knowledge, but I'm going to take a stab at it. In football, there's a known quantity of people who've been defensive coordinators, various coaching positions in NFL teams. There is a finite number of Division I and other elite football college squads. In our positions, there are 600, well,
 well, there's 600,000 people in the city of Portland. There are millions of people in the country of the United States. When we hired for the Office of Equity and Human Rights, we got over 70 applications for the director. I'm guessing at least 50 of those were people of color. And so the wording of the...
 resolution right now that we would have to interview any qualified candidate, which have meant doing 50 interviews. So that was why I was going to the highest qualified of the minority candidates, the highest qualified. And obviously you can't tell until you get into an interview situation. On the other hand, you cannot interview everybody. What we are finding with the veterans preference is that because we are required to interview every minimally qualified veterans preference,
 It ends up taking a lot of time because some of the folks that we are required to interview are minimally qualified and are not qualified. Mr. Fritz, I'm having this sense that we're getting hung up on language and maybe there's more agreement. So can I call upon the Harvard graduate, law graduate on the council and put it to Steve? Steve, Sam said that we should interview a qualified minority candidate. That should be the standard, A.
 The current resolution says any, and Commissioner Fritz has offered an amendment to clarify that the highest qualified candidate would be interviewed. I see they can all be reconciled if the idea is to at least have one and not require multiple. What's your reading? Thank you.
 One thing I learned at Harvard Law School was defer to people who are smart of the UN issue and thought about it more. I think in this case, Commissioner Fritz is that person, so I defer to her. Seriously, I think that her formulation makes the most sense because if we say A, then we're saying just one. If we say any, then we're saying that we could wind up being required to interview 50 people. I think that the highest qualified is A.
 A little candidates is a little vague because it doesn't mean I think deliberately. So it doesn't mandate that you interview two or six or whatever, although I would take it since it says candidates to mean that you should you should probably interview more than one if they're available. So that seems actually as good as we can get.
 I thought you were going to have to translate this into baseball in order to respond, so this is a good discussion. Is that consistent with the spirit of what you're proposing? Yeah, the ruling rule and the law in Oregon, you have to interview at least one qualified minority candidate. So maybe I wasn't clear because I did say A, but I think the goal is to interview at least one qualified minority candidate, and that really is up to you in deciding –
 You know, I'm not going to get caught up on the highest. As long as one qualified minority candidate and person of disability is interviewed for the position, that's really the goal. And if you want to interview more than that, fantastic. That clarifies it for me because the goal should be at least one but not preclude more. Correct. And my understanding of the modifier highest is simply to –
 clarify that we're talking about people who are highly qualified contenders for the job and not just everybody who put their name in. And you've made it very clear that there has to be at least one from that pool. I think Commissioner Fritz's amendment, as I listen to this discussion, is consistent with what you as the sponsor of this would like to see and I think just gives us a little more clarity about the pool. Well, and it's good that we're having this discussion because –
 The folks that attempted to draft these resolutions were trying to do some careful balancing here. One, these are resolutions. They're not ordinances.
 We're not recreating civil service procedures for hiring bureau directors because you did the right thing, Commissioner Saltzman, when you led that reform. And unlike some occupants of the mayor's chair, I'm a believer in the commission form of government and the prerogatives of each commissioner under the charter to hire and fire bureau directors under that authority and under those reforms. So we're trying to balance the full exercise of that authority for commissioners in charge and for bureau directors.
 but also to state our shared goals and expectations in, in,
 in writing in a resolution in a way that we can see how we're doing and how the community can see how we're doing and where we're measuring in the case of the direct hire reporting effort well let's let's see how we're doing so we've tried to strike that balance we the words matter but the intention the the shared understanding of our intentions matter at least as much in this case because that's what we're trying to capture here with this resolution
 I'll just push back a little bit, Mayor. I think it has to be absolutely crystal clear about what we're doing because, as you know, with things like veterans' preferences and other finish line considerations we have to go through, it is a heavily prescribed process. Yes.
 And, I mean, once you've got your group of people in the room helping you screen the finalists, and HR comes and starts laying out the ground rules, it's heavily prescribed. So I would – and if it's not prescribed, if we don't play it by the book, then anyone who doesn't get the job has a potential claim. Fair enough. So I just want us to be clear about what –
 we're doing crystal clear so that we don't get sideways. And with the veteran's preference, you know, you do have this – the veteran's preference adds points to someone's candidacy. And so that's why we – In a civil service process or in a – When you're hiring for a director. Can add points.
 Legally does add points. Legally does in the case of the veterans preference? Okay. And that's why we have someone at the chart, on the chart, averaging out the scores, adding the points. Because it's so heavily prescribed, I just want to make sure we're very clear about the language. This is not that prescriptive, but nevertheless, I take your point about clarity. I think we've – it sounds to me like we've reached some agreement that the language that Commissioner Fritz has proposed in Amendment 1 works and accomplishes what you hoped we would accomplish with this. Yes. Yes.
 other other points you want to raise sam or other questions for sam thank you i i did want to say before i step away that um this i want to thank dante um the director of office of equity and human rights i want to thank anna canwett commissioner fish commissioner hales this process has been i think it's it's exciting for me to be here and to watch this process and discussion but i
 I think the thing that has been really a joy is to see the work that's happened together between the Office of Human Resources, the Office of Equity, the Commissioner, and really from the start there was never a sense of, well, this will never work. It was how can we make this work. And Anna Canwit was really –
 determined to make sure that it wasn't just something that we do just to do, to say that we're doing the right thing. She wanted to make sure that it has the results and the impact that we're hoping for, which is that we have more directors of color involved,
 persons of disability and someday more, hopefully more council members of color and perhaps a mayor of color. So it's just been really a joy for me to be a part of the process and work together and see that collaboration. And I also want to thank the Charles Jordan family because when I
 historically when this rule has been passed to college it's called the Eddie Robinson rule after the the great coach from Grambling and so when when thinking about how who would we name this after there was really one only one person that was Charles Jordan and I just want to thank their family and their influence and the main thing for them is that it be called a standard because the
 They don't want you to be required to do the right thing or be held to a rule, but more they want you to set a standard and do the right thing because it's your choice and you know it's the right thing. And so hopefully going forward, it will be referred to as the Charles Jordan standard. Okay.
 Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Let's see who else would like to speak. Please, come on up. And Ms. Heaster is here again, a second time today, if you'd like to speak as well from our Disability Commission. So come on up. Hi. Good afternoon. I am Trish Jordan Anderson. I am Charles Jordan's eldest daughter. Thank you.
 First, as the Jordan family, we'd like to extend our extreme gratitude to Sam for all the work that he's done, to the council for considering this. I was going to address the standard part, but he could not have said it better at all. That's exactly what my dad would have said. But in the beginning of this, I asked Sam, you know, what about gay people and lesbian people?
 There is no doubt in my mind that, in our mind, that my father would want them to be included. We're talking about people that have been discriminated against because of who they were born to be. So you have to include this group. My dad would have included this group. I'd really like you to include this group, too. Good point. Thank you. Well, and first of all, thank you to the family for being here. Thank you.
 It was a proud day when we named a community center after your dad, and this is now a proud day when we're taking the next step. Just to be clear, I'd be satisfied with just expanding the categories we collect data on and the resolution. I think there's a – we have some very clear data about disparities with African Americans in city employment and leadership. And I would be – I –
 I mean, there's an amendment on the table to expand to women. But I think the first resolution was really a test case. We're trying to see whether through this mechanism we can bolster participation and leadership. I'm more comfortable narrowing it with the first resolution as long as in the second resolution we're compiling data to determine whether there's other actions we need to take. But I appreciate your testimony. Yeah, I'm just thinking if we are going to make sure that this set of people is protected –
 You can't exclude, I mean, we're talking about the way people were born and how people treat them because of who they were born to be. I am the black sheep of the family. I am feeling this. So that's where we stand on this. Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Thank you all for being here.
 Yvonne, welcome back. Hello. For those of you who don't know me, my name is Yvonne Heaster. I'm the chair of the Portland Commission on Disability. I'm happy to be back to talk about this. When Dante first came to the Portland Commission on Disability and mentioned that when they'd been talking about this, actually, I think Judith told me that when they were talking about this, Dante had said, well, we want to include people with disabilities. I was like, what?
 Thank you. Because our group is often a group that is left out. And this is when you look at the employment numbers, people are comfortable that people with disabilities have an unemployment rate of 85%. When you really put it in front of them, people will probably go, oh, that's not good and
 Not only do we have an unemployment rate that is 85%, but we have people who are horribly underemployed. And so I want to thank Dante for bringing us into this, but I also want to express a little bit of concern. And this is just from my own personal experience, a quick story of I was a medical social worker. I was making money.
 almost $30 an hour, and then I lost my job. It was disability-related. And I went out and started looking for employment, and the vocational rehabilitation system I was working with started offering me a job, looking at jobs that were about $10 an hour. And really, they had people who had...
 completed high school, and had no college doing those same jobs. So I have concerns about finding enough jobs
 highly qualified people with disabilities when it comes to these appointments, I think that one thing that Anna Canwitt said that was really important to me is this is one of the tools. I think it's really important we're included, but I also think it's really important that we look at other tools because when you have a group that is...
 really struggling to get their needs met and to be brought up to the level, you know, beyond janitorial, beyond landscaping, and beyond information and referral, which was what I was referred to doing. You know, having a master's degree, having worked, and having some very specialized skills.
 So I would like to just encourage you to think about how can you use this as one of the tools but also bolster it. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Safiya Ullman, and I'm a member of the Office of Equity and Human Rights Bureau Advisory Committee. And I am here today as a community member and as a woman of color to urge you to support the direct appointment resolution. I really appreciate the City Council reaffirming its support of equity by adopting a citywide racial equity last year.
 And as stated in the direct appointment proposal, one of the strategies associated with achieving this goal is to be data driven.
 And the data collected as a result of this direct appointment proposal would serve as another resource for underrepresented communities to hold the City of Portland leaders accountable for equity in hiring practices.
 Currently, there is no diversity and equity accountability for bureau directors who hire through the direct appointment process. And this is not okay. This is actually really disconcerting. This resolution will really, really help the city to track the demographic data for the hiring.
 So as a member of the Office of Equidian Human Rights Bureau Advisory Committee, and again, as a woman of color, it is my hope that you vote for the direct appointment resolution. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Anyone else would like to speak on these resolutions? If not, then let's bring Dante and Anna back up, please, and we can talk some more about the amendments and anything else that's come up in discussion here today.
 Mayor, we've agreed that we're going to change it to the Rooney standards. Rooney standards. That amendment is on the table along with the others. Yes. So back to the question of sexual orientation. Some more thoughts? Yes.
 No. I don't have any more thoughts on that, actually. It's okay to admit that, yes. No more thoughts. Again, I still have to look in terms of the actual reporting piece. What I did have a thought about, though, was the question that was asked, I think, by Commissioners Halsman and Commissioner Fish in terms of how we obtained the data when we're talking about the Jordan Standard.
 I do want to be very clear, we will develop the language that we will use for candidates, but we need to be clear that it's a voluntary self-disclosure. We will explain what the Jordan Standard is, but it will be important that it is voluntary for people to disclose the status, whatever statuses we decide, that you all decide to include in the standard.
 So that's one point, and that would be covered. It was obviously not part of the resolution, but it would be part of the implementation of the resolution. The second comment I had, and I'm not quite sure where the discussion is on this in terms of highest qualified. I know that Sam addressed this too.
 I think it can be problematic to determine highest qualified before you're doing an interview. I think there is some language, for example, clearly qualified as opposed to highest. I know there is an interest in avoiding...
 And as I think Sam also alluded to this, interviewing necessarily a candidate that may barely meet minimum qualifications. So, Anna, there's another way to solve that because Sam has made it very clear that the standard is at least one. So we could just say to interview at least one qualified minority candidate.
 Yes, and I'm assuming from that it would be a, because we have other categories, so a qualified candidate from each of the categories. Right. So, I mean, I think that works. It's obviously up to council. My initial concern when we were looking at one, I wasn't sure if the message there would be watering down the Jordan standard, but I do understand the obvious concern of if, you know, there are, which would be,
 I suppose, an enviable position to be in if we had 50 qualified candidates that met the standards. So anything I think that allows, makes it clear that the requirement is not to interview all of the qualified candidates, I think does address Commissioner Fritz's concerns.
 I only had one more comment, and that is on the amendment to hire a recruitment firm. I think that's great and is a tool that I think could be very useful, particularly in the outreach efforts since my staff is limited, has taken cuts over several budget years. But I just want you to consider when we do that where the money comes from.
 in order to hire that firm. So that would be my only comment there. The amendment, if it's passed, will direct you to investigate hiring. Yes. It doesn't direct you to proceed to hire without authorization. So let's end the drama. It comes from the Sponsor's Bureau. So it comes from the Parks Bureau. So let's...
 Oh, all of them, yeah. I thought you meant me and OMF, so okay, there we go. There's usually a budget for doing the recruitment. There's the advertising on the various places and such, so that usually comes out of the Bureau's budget. Anna, give us a sense, when you hire a third-party firm to help in a recruitment with the intent of connecting to beyond the usual suspect of organizations and networks and –
 and develop a list of qualified people that you then recruit. Do we have some experience working with those firms? Do we know what the cost might be? We don't. We have typically not done that. We have used our in-house resources. First, Joe Wall, who came to us when he was at Bureau of Human Resources, was a recruiter for McDonald's.
 corporation and did the high-level executive type recruitments, and then Linda Lewis, the current manager, had much of that experience in the private sector as well. So I don't know what the cost would be. I think that would obviously be part of the investigation and also focusing on what a firm would have to offer us in terms of outreach, because that's
 that's the part that we're really interested in. If a firm is simply going to LinkedIn, we can do that, and we do that. But that's not sufficient in terms of the kind of outreach we're talking about. I mean, I think one thing to also consider is, are there firms that can come in and give us, in essence, an audit of how we go about it and give us the tools we need so that in some instances we can do it in-house and in other instances we go outside? Right.
 I mean, this is a very, this is an area, a growth area, and you need to be sophisticated in how you identify, recruit, and go after qualified candidates, particularly during a national search. And usually that's beyond the capacity of an in-house operation. Yes, yes. No, I agree. I think that would be one of the things to explore. Okay. Further comments, suggestions? A couple. Back to number three, and I don't disagree with it. I guess my...
 question slash bold comment would be that, or maybe it will take care of itself in a year after we come back with recommendations based on the reporting. But I would assert that if there's going to be a conversation about hiring bureau directors, that it would be most beneficial if that conversation occurred prior to the hiring process at council. If there was going to be a
 Commissioner who decides to go outside of the HR process and do a direct appointment, transparency in that process before it happens would be most beneficial to community. So just my comment that reporting after the fact is…
 will be good at some point down the road, but having the conversation before it ever happens would, in fact, be the most beneficial approach. Yeah, but doesn't – Dante, you're being very diplomatic. Doesn't that just beg the question of whether – aren't you raising the more fundamental question about whether commissioners should have the authority to do direct appointments? Yes, absolutely.
 transparency to what end to then have people in the community be critical of that approach or whatever. So aren't you really saying that – aren't you really suggesting to us that we revisit whether we should have that discretion? I mean, that's a policy question. Yes. And so it's not a question of whether you can have the discretion. It's how do you use it. And is it being used in a way –
 That broadly gets to the result which you say you want, which is diversity in the city across bureaus and within your offices, I would imagine. So the answer to your question is yes and no. I'm not trying to take away your ability to do direct appointments. But I'm suggesting if you're going to do it, you should be able to have that conversation before you use it with your colleagues. And then with the community who hears and sees what you're going to do.
 well again let me be open about this um i'm i'm wary of invading too much the prerogatives of commissioners in charge of their bureaus in this or any other collective act by the council other than a charter amendment so i'm i'm not likely to be appointing a lot of additional bureau directors myself others here might have the opportunity to appoint more and i don't want to prescribe
 their ability to make the decision that they see fit so i'm i don't want to go too far in this resolution uh even in in this best of causes in changing the charter and how it works for members of this council who are commissioners in charge and that's certainly not my suggestion i think we start with getting the data and then that will lead to a subsequent the data will lead us back to the conversation yeah yeah
 Okay. You said you had a couple points? Other points that you want to make, Dante? I guess I'm assuming that the conversation about highest qualified also applies to number two, which would be the addition of women to this amendment as well. I'm not sure where we've left that. I want to return to the question of the language there. Whatever we do ought to probably be parallel in one and two. Could we get a thumbs up or a thumbs down on that from the Jordan family? Sure.
 Thank you. And then the reason that it's necessary is because several other categories of minorities are minorities. Women are actually majority in the city of Portland, so we don't get covered by the minority, even though we are obviously the minority on the council and the minority in the bureau directors.
 So what is your thinking at this point, Commissioner Fritz, on the wording of what one and two should say? So actually two, now that it seems like we're moving towards adopting one, I then didn't underline it in number two, so we would just be adopting two as the final version of that, now therefore resolved. So we would be interviewing the highest qualified minority candidates, the highest qualified women candidates, and the highest qualified candidates who identify as a person with a disability.
 If there is more than one qualified candidate in any of those categories, the commissioner in charge of designee retains the discretion to determine the number of qualified candidates who will be interviewed. One or more, i.e.? Correct. Maybe it's just because of the way my brain works. It would be easier for me just to take them in order. Oh, we will. I just wanted to understand the language that was in front of us at this point. Because I'm – well, I like – I could live with the highest qualified language. I'm kind of persuaded based on the discussion that –
 at least one qualified minority candidate is both the spirit and the letter of what's been suggested, and it doesn't bind us to suggest the quote-unquote highest qualified. The commissioner reserves the right to see something in the makeup and the background of someone who isn't, quote, the highest. And by saying at least one, we've made it clear that we're not required to interview every candidate.
 I thought you were going to take the Harvard lawyer's word for it that I had. That was right. He's obviously – Come on, Commissioner. He took the Socratic method and punted it back to you. I saw what he did. If we take them up each one, let's at least have that discussion. Let me take them slightly out of order because I think there's no argument about the one that I proposed, which is to change the Charles Jordan rule to Charles Jordan standard. Second. So let's take a roll call on that amendment, please. Great. Thanks. Aye. Aye.
 MS. Saltzman. Novick. MR. I think this is actually a very important amendment because long-time NBA fans who moved to Portland too recently to know about Charles Jordan would hear Jordan rule and think of the defensive strategy the Detroit Pistons employed against Michael Jordan. So it's important to draw the distinction because, of course, the Pistons are trying to stop Michael Jordan and we're trying to promote the vision of Charles Jordan. So I think this is not cosmetic. It's very important.
 Yes. Aye. Okay. Now let's move to number one of Commissioner Fritz's amendments. Further discussion as it is now printed? So as it is currently printed, Commissioner Fritz, your preference is that we keep it as to interview the highest qualified minority candidates. And that is ambiguous as to number, but it's clear that it is people that have risen to the top of the pool. Of their demographic of the pool, even. Right.
 Okay. Further discussion. Roll call, please, on that.
 Well, thank you for the robust discussion. Thank you very much to everybody for participating in this. I would recommend keeping this language. I think the at least one implies that there may not be an abundance of qualified candidates in each of these categories, where in fact we know that there often are. And so I like setting the standard that we're expecting a lot of highly qualified candidates to apply. Aye.
 It's six of one, half dozen of the other, but I think this is clear enough that I can support it. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, and now Amendment No. 2, the highest qualified women candidates. Roll call. Fritz. Again, our demographics are 65 percent of all managers, 58 percent of all employees, and 70 percent of all bureau directors are male. Aye. Fish. Aye. No.
 salzman novic hi hails although i had great fun uh teasing the women in transportation seminar when they were here about the fact that not only do we have a woman transportation director and a woman city attorney but a woman fire chief you're right the numbers are what they are and we're not there yet aye thank you number three um further discussion of that roll call
 So this is a reporting requirement. I am very ready to go much further as soon as there are two others who are ready to go much further. Aye. Aye. Zaltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. And four. Further resolve. Go ahead. So question to the sponsor on four. This says shall investigate hiring a company. That's not especially directive. So we're saying to HR, HR.
 go do an assessment of whether there is our companies and under what circumstances we use them and come back and report to us? That's my understanding of it. Yes, since I devised this about an hour ago or now before the start of the hearing, I didn't want to go too far in this. And I have heard affirmation from our HR director that she will indeed look into this and get back to us on the costs. Okay.
 I just wanted to make sure that it's clear to HR what their task, what their charge is, and to come back to us with some options. Yes, yes, I do understand that, Commissioner. Thank you. I feel some responsibility to repair the damage that hiring of Joe Wall away from human resources into the Office of Equity and Human Rights did to our ability to do nationwide searches because he was largely responsible for finding that and getting it. Okay, roll call, please.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. I have one further amendment I'd like to entertain. Would the council be willing to make this binding city policy?
 What's the difference in a resolution if we call it binding city policy? It goes into the city policy documents. Let's get our city attorney to opine on that. In the same way the equity strategies and racial equity goals were made binding city policy. There's a clear statement.
 Since 2001, the city started the practice of binding city policy. Then in 2004, things that had not been adopted as binding city policy were said to no longer be effective. If we want this to be something that is binding on bureau directors citywide,
 And rather than just aspirational or rather than a statement of a standard, under the current code, it needs to be binding city policy and go into the Portland policy documents.
 And we can do that through the resolution? Yes. Resolutions as well as ordinances can be binding city policy. But unless it says binding city policy, the auditor doesn't put it in the Portland Policy Documents repository. And as the code is currently phrased, if it's not binding city policy, then it's not considered to be binding city policy. I'll second the amendment. So the amendment is that we add a further resolve that this standard is binding city policy. Okay.
 Can you provide me that code section in writing, please? Yes. Not now. I can't. I mean, I guess I find it perplexing. I thought everything we did up here is effectively binding city policy if a majority of us pass anything. Right. So I want to know more about this because I do find it – I think, you know, we get a little carried away now with adding this binding city policy, whereas I thought for 18 years –
 if the council passes something by golly it's binding city policy and you don't have to answer right i'm just that is what the current code language is there are currently some discussions on updating that code and and i think that's going to be a policy call for all of you how you want that to be going forward right now that is what the code says okay that's why i asked for the code i said i'd like to hear more about that too but for now this makes sense so any further discussion roll call on that additional amendment please
 Ritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novin? Aye. Hayles? Aye. Okay. Mayor, let me just restate my final, I guess the final amendment, which is my amendment to the second resolution, number 24. Let's wait because right now we're acting on the first resolution, right? Oh, I thought we did all.
 I think all these that we have just adopted are in the first resolution. So let's act on the first resolution, and then we'll come back to that. So roll call, please, on the first resolution as amended. Great. This just shows what good-hearted people who have the same values and principles when working together can do to a really splendid job.
 standard that's come forward with community support, bureau support, and certainly the lead of our great directors of human resources in the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Thanks to the Commission on Disability for your support, too. And thank you, commissioners and mayor, for entertaining and adopting my amendments. Thank you, Sam Sachs, for being the champion for this good idea. Thank you to the Jordan family for once again allowing us to honor the great life and legacy of Charles Jordan.
 And it's a point of great pride for all of us to once again recall his service and then to capture the spirit of that service in something that future generations will look back on. The goal here is to cast the broadest possible net and to get the most qualified people from all walks of life and to give people a fair chance to compete for leadership positions in our city.
 and anything within the law that we do that gives us a better chance of hiring qualified individuals who historically have been shut out from these kinds of jobs we should embrace. So thank you for the good discussion. Thank you to my colleagues. I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Well, thank you, Sam, Zach, for your comments.
 being such a staunch advocate thank you the jordan family for as commissioner fish said lending your name to this important rule standard excuse me important standard and uh i appreciate uh all the work that anna and dante have done and appreciate the mayor bringing this forward it's very important don't think
 I'll be repetitive. Thanks to the Jordan family, thanks to Sam, thanks to Dante, thanks to Anna, thanks to LaVon for the second time today. And I should say, thanks to our sole remaining Oregonian City Hall reporter, Brad Schmidt, for being here with us today. Oh, wait, Brad would like us to get through this quickly. He has to get back to the office and write an editorial and get the crossword puzzle out. Okay.
 Well, thank you all. And I also want to thank Diana Nunez in my office who's worked on this as well. And this was an excellent council discussion. Actually, I had a chance to try to explain what we were doing here this afternoon to Brad, and I said this is a way to capture a shared intention discussion.
 by the council and put it down in writing and then see how we're doing over time and measure our progress. And the fact that we did this good work this afternoon to make it even clearer and even better and even stronger I think affirms that that's why this will make a difference because we do share these values and goals and we're putting it down on paper. We're expecting our bureau directors and ourselves to do our best in following this standard. So that's...
 something I think we can all count on seeing results from. And, yeah, it is wonderful to do this in Charles' name. I remember Charles in lots of different settings, whether it was standing out on the crumbling edge of the outdoor pool at Mount Scott Community Center saying we should fix up these parks,
 to watching him surrounded by a bunch of young kids out at Heron Lakes with some young golfer named Tiger Woods, who was 16, I think, when he visited Portland for a clinic, or when he spent a lot of time in this room. Granted, the room was a little different then, but he spent a lot of time in this room trying to bend public policy in an arc towards justice. And he would like this piece of work very much, so I'm proud to vote aye.
 Now, let's turn to the second resolution, Commissioner Fish, and see what you want to do with that. Okay. So in the resolution just adopted, Mayor, we focus on three protected categories, race, gender, and disability. The next resolution is intended to, in part, collect data that would allow us in the future to make additional, take additional actions to expand opportunity at the city. Okay.
 Under the be it further resolved sub four, it lists race, ethnicity, gender, status as a veteran, or person with a disability as categories where we collect information. I would amend that to include sexual orientation. Okay. I'm looking at the whereas's up above. I hear the second. So we've certainly done it there in number four if we adopt that amendment. Okay.
 I think that's probably sufficient for the purpose of collecting data. Do you think so? Yes. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Someone was just whispering in my ear. Mayor, just to have the language consistent with our code, my amendment is sexual orientation or gender identity. Okay. Second. Done. Roll call on adopting that amendment, please. Great. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Selksman? Aye. Novick? Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Bales? Aye. Further discussion of the resolution as amended? Any other further guidance from our two leaders here? All right. Then let's take a roll call vote, please. Fritz?
 I came to Portland in 1986. I met former Commissioner Charles Jordan twice, towards the end of his life. One time in city council chambers, although it was actually when we were over in the Portland building because he was still doing renovations here.
 and we were – Commissioner Fish had led the charge to change the name of the community center to the Charles Jordan Community Center. And so we went through the hearing and had various comments, and then we lined up, and I happened to have the good luck to be standing right next to Commissioner Jordan. And his mind was a little forgetful at that time. He looked down to me and said, did I work with you? And I said, no, unfortunately not. He said, I would have liked to.
 And so that has been something that was really sweet and evidence of the kind of person that he remained to the very end of his life, that he was always being kind, always being gracious and always looking out for people who perhaps had had a hard time getting to where they were and wanted to be loved.
 continuing to be supported so thank you so much for your part in this thank you sam sacks for your part in that and thank you especially dante james in the office of equity and human rights for your continuing attention to data and making sure that the city revises its processes to get things done so that the outcomes are better and with when we have the data we will know whether the outcomes are better thank you very much anna canada for your ongoing commitment to this work bye
 Well, I guess none of us can resist the Charles Jordan story. I'll just, too, very briefly. When I was the Parks Commissioner, I consider it one of the great honors of my life to preside over the renaming of a community center in honor of Charles Jordan. And it was such an important day that Nike actually made a special shoe in his honor. And it was a huge crowd turned out. And he and the family were there, and there were beautiful speeches. And I
 There was just something profound, I think, to all of us that at the New Columbia, which is the most diverse census tract in the state of Oregon, we were naming a community center in honor of someone who, through his service, did more to build bridges of understanding than any of us have known. So that was a high point. And the second story I'll just share briefly is when I first thought about running for public office, I did what everyone who had half a brain did. I asked to meet with Charles Jordan and get his advice.
 And he was very generous with his time and very liberal with his advice. And subsequently, there was a forum that he moderated at the African American Alliance. And I came early to watch the mayor's race. And he was very tough with the then candidates in 2004 running for mayor. One was named Francis Coney. Another one was named Potter. It was an extremely hot room. And he was doing follow-up questions with that very rich, resonant voice.
 very authoritative, taking people to task and not allowing them to just make rhetorical statements. And, um, I was becoming more and more nervous as I watched this thing unfold because I was next in line to have to go through this. And, um, fortunately, whatever, for whatever reason that the mayor's debate was so hot, it took, it, it, it took all the heat out of the room and the debate that followed was a lot more, but he, um,
 He was and is a great man in our city's history, and all I can say is a relatively new person in Portland. It was an honor for me to get to know him, and I think we still feel the loss. Again, Sam, thank you for your persistence in bringing this whole concept to council and working with us to get it right. Aye. Biltzman? Aye. Nolte? Aye. Aye.
 Without objection, I'm going to suspend the rules for just a moment and ask Representative Lou Frederick to come up and give us a little bit of a benediction for this good afternoon's work here before I vote. Thank you, Mayor Hales, members of the city council. I really appreciate letting me do this. Everyone has a favorite Charles Jordan story. I've told this one a couple of times because it really, for me, gives me a sense of the man.
 For five years, I had adults come over and talk to fifth graders in my living room. And my ceilings were, he could fit in the ceilings, but he had to duck to get under the door. And they would be fifth graders. They were 10 and 11-year-olds, and they'd sit around my living room, and they'd inhale popcorn. And they would eat fruits and juice and things like that. Charles Jordan came to speak to them.
 And he walked in, and all the eyes went up to see, who is this guy? And a couple of the little boys looked over at him and said, so did you play basketball? And he said, yes, I play basketball. Did you get in the NBA? And he said, well, I actually turned them down twice. And they looked at him with this, you what? What?
 How could you even... You're supposed to say, I played. You're supposed to play. How could you do that? And he said, I thought there was something better for me to do. We were lucky enough in this city to have him do that here. So I am very pleased to support this. Charles Jordan was...
 I wish I could say he was a great friend of mine, and I got a chance to see him a lot, but whenever I did, I was very pleased that I was in his presence. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I am very pleased to vote aye on this good piece of work. Thank you all very much, and we're recessed until tomorrow afternoon. And Dante, bon voyage. We're sending you off on a special assignment here. Special assignment. Undercover. Not so much.