I think we can begin. Good afternoon and welcome to the January 9th council meeting. Sorry, 8th council meeting. Would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Okay, let's first take up item number 42 and 43.
 Do you want to read them both together? Yes, please. 42, accept the City of Portland 2015 federal legislative agenda. And 43, accept the City of Portland 2015 state legislative agenda. Okay, Ms. Pellegrino and team. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, Councilmembers, for the record, Martha Pellegrino, Director of the Office of Government Relations. As the Mayor said, we are delighted today to bring you the reports for the 2015 State and Federal Legislative Agendas. I'm going to begin today with brief remarks about the development of those agendas and then turn first to the Federal Agenda. With me today is Nils Tilstrom, Senior Associate of Federal Affairs in my office. Thank you.
 So you may recall just over a month ago, on December 2nd, Council considered the drafts of these agendas at the second of two public work sessions. At that time, you each provided some additional guidance and changes that are now reflected in the reports in front of you. We also provided overviews of the political landscapes post-election at that time, so we will save you from that this time around.
 We're also very proud to report that we held a successful Advocacy 101 training session with the community on December 15th in partnership with ONI. Over 60 people attended, and we received very positive feedback from our attendees. What are some examples of people who came to that event? We had different groups. We had students.
 unions, we had community members who were unaffiliated, neighborhood associations, and a couple of great members of our legislative delegation who really helped provide some good context about effective advocacy. And Amanda and I enjoyed attending, so we fell out of it. Thank you.
 So then looking ahead, we're now in the process of ramping up for both the federal and state legislative sessions. The 114th Congress convened two days ago in our nation's capital, and the state legislature meets next Monday through Wednesday for what are called organizational days. And at that time, new members will be sworn in. The governor will deliver his state of the state address, and the House and Senate will begin to introduce bills.
 This will all occur in advance of the first official day of the legislative session, which is February 2nd. So turning first to the federal agenda, this report closely reflects the draft you reviewed in December, and I'll just briefly run through a few changes. First, you requested that the items supporting action on climate change, tax reform, and protected sick time be elevated to top city priorities.
 You also asked that there be a section added on health care, and that's on page 22. The policy items there are policy items that council actually adopted in our last federal agenda, but we inadvertently omitted from the draft. Lastly, on page 26, you requested a new policy item on on-body cameras for police, given the president's recent funding announcement.
 So this report lists nine top federal priorities leading with transportation funding, education, and Portland Harbor, along with others, and then organizes all of the other federal policy positions and funding priorities by topic area. So that's just a quick overview of the changes, and we're happy to take any questions. Okay, questions for the team.
 then we may be ready to move on to the state agenda. And then do you want to adopt one and then take up the other? I think either way is fine. Okay. So why don't we take a roll call unless there's anyone here to testify on the federal agenda.
 i don't think there is thanks mr would uh you entertain a one word amendment sure what's yeah where which page uh on page five climate change it just occurred to me looking at this this morning that's saying that climate global climate change poses significant threats to the environment public health etc struck me as something of an understatement so i would propose replacing the word significant with the word grave
 Okay, I think that's a friendly amendment. Anyone have any objection to that? All right, we'll consider that a friendly amendment and make that change. I was going to bring down a photo that I neglected to bring from our office, just if we wanted to make this a slightly less...
 dignified document, we could include a photo on the cover, which is posted on the break room in our office. And it's the photo of Speaker Boehner kissing former Speaker Pelosi. And if you haven't seen that photo, it's it's.
 pretty amusing. So if we really wanted to lighten up our federal report, we could put that on the cover. And perhaps we can bring that on our first lobbying trip with us to D.C. We had a caption contest for that photo in our office, and the winner was Deanna Weston-Mitchell, who says the caption should be, no means no. No, we have a policy there that deals with that. It's 2.02. That's a clear violation. Yeah.
 Martha, it goes without saying that as you crafted this, you and Vicki have had a chance to look through the federal agenda, and are you comfortable recommending that we adopt it today? MS. Absolutely. These are priorities that we've been working on for several months. We have vetted them, and we're optimistic that even in this coming year, we're going
 Congress, there are some of these things that we think Congress is prepared to do, either Congress or that can happen at the administrative level through the agencies. So we're excited to begin work on it. Thank you. Okay. Further discussion? Anyone want to speak on the federal agenda? Let's take a roll call on that then. Fritz? Good luck with all of this. I'm not sure that we're going to be expecting much other than playing defense in this Congress, but good luck with it. Aye. Fish? Thanks for your good work. Aye. Saltzman?
 I'm sorry, Novick. Good luck indeed. Aye. Hales. Thank you. Aye. Okay, now let's turn to the state legislature. Great. I'd like to just invite up Andy Smith, our state government relations manager, and Elizabeth Edwards, our senior associate of state affairs. So at this point, it may be worth considering, I believe there is a substitute. Yes, I think we have that. Everybody have the substitute? Dated 1-7-15. Okay.
 That has all the changes that are referenced in the cover memo? That's correct. I have it. You want us to adopt the substitute? Let's do that, and then you can present it. Can I have a motion? Second. Any further discussion? Roll call on the substitute. Fritz? So I know that Martha's going to go through some of the changes. Aye. Bish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay.
 Okay, so let's talk about the contents of this, please. Great. So, again, the contents of this agenda is substantially similar to the draft that you took up in December, but with just a few exceptions. So, first, you've asked for an expanded focus on mental health. That is the top city priority for the state legislative agenda.
 This includes more concerted support for community mental health funding. It also generally references support for psychiatric emergency services.
 Then on transportation on page two, we've made some formatting changes so that we really highlight some of these individual policy items in this particular priority. We also added a desire to include local expanded authority in the studded tires item.
 Under affordable housing, on page three, you requested that inclusionary zoning be elevated to a top city priority. And also included is support for the use of state bonds to fund affordable housing as proposed in the governor's recommended budget. Next, at Commissioner Saltzman's request, the Children's District Initiative has been removed. Thank you.
 On pages 20 and 21, we added a new policy position regarding supporting investments in workforce programs. And lastly, on page 22, we added language to the education item to support investing increased lottery revenues in education. So that is a quick summary of all of those changes and happy to take questions.
 that's a really good package in both cases i mean we've got really a solid agenda in both in both the federal and the state level i'm very happy with where this this lies now martha when when you were um um shepherding me uh the other day in the convention center we did have a i had a brief conversation with senator hass and um uh on with respect to the film and video tax credit he didn't mention his preference to find an offset so
 to get your thoughts down the road as to what's in play as an offset. I got the impression there might be some low-hanging fruit, but I didn't fully understand the frame. So I kind of regretted that it needed an offset since in the absence of this we lose all the business. But I guess all the tax credits have to compete. And I think that's right, Commissioner, that there is even a joint committee on tax credits, and they'll take a holistic look to make sure that...
 whichever tax credits that are authorized by this legislature pass muster and then make sure that there are ways to pay for those things. So we expect that this particular program has been a very successful one, and I think there's a very good chance of seeing that program grow. In addition, Martha, you've been tracking the work of a joint committee that's looking at the whole area of elder abuse.
 and there may or may not be a recommendation to expand categories of mandatory reporters.
 I guess that's not actually in our legislative agenda, but does that qualify as an area? Do you feel satisfied that that's an area of concern that's been expressed through your office, that you can continue to monitor that? Absolutely. I mean, the legislative agenda really kind of frames up the city's priorities as we work with our delegation, but there will be 5,000 bills introduced in this coming session that impact legislation
 how we work as a city, municipal functions, but also impact people who live here. So I fully expect our office to work with you all to engage on many of those other pieces of legislation, and I see that potentially being one of those things. And, Mayor, this issue of elder abuse intersects your portfolio with the Police Bureau that's doing the investigation, the prosecution. Elders in Action has an interest.
 It cuts across actually a number of portfolios, but the issue the legislature is looking at is to whether to expand the scope of mandatory reporters to include certain licensed real estate professionals who may, by virtue of their position, be witness to alleged elder abuse. And so that may or may not become an issue, and I hope it's something the council can weigh in on.
 back on the film and video tax credit the governor didn't address that at all in his budget it was not it was not addressed in the governor's recommended okay but we did hear from tim williams
 They fully expected a bump to be presented. It just didn't come in through his budget. Yeah, there's... I think one thing we do know is in the past years, the Film and Video Office has done a very good job in front of the legislature to talk about the return on investment that this industry has had, and there really is...
 quite a bit of political support in the legislature for seeing that program and potentially even seeing it grow. The question is about how available resources do pass, ultimately, what available resources there are and which tax credits can be authorized.
 Also, I think it bodes well for us that Senator Bessie Johnson has so many businesses located within her district that are central to the film and video industry and feel strongly about this as well. Well, I mean, you saw the level of interest in that gathering. I mean, there have been a lot of indications lately that we've kind of reached another level.
 in terms of Oregon's visibility. I mean, the film Wild in particular has kind of gotten us into another league, and it would be a shame that just having acquired all this momentum that people have worked at for years that we suddenly got a little bit cheap at a time when the state probably has the resources to keep doing this. Well, and there's this... One of the reasons why I think Martha has... why some have heartburn about treating it like any other tax credit is...
 let's use the example of New Mexico. A governor came in and said, I don't like this tax credit program, abolished it, and they lost the film industry. So it's not like other tax credits where there's an argument that something would continue even without it. If you don't have the program, you don't compete with these other states for the dollars, and unfortunately that just means that these companies, which otherwise have...
 20% higher exposure on their investment go elsewhere, and they go to places like Vancouver, B.C., and Louisiana. But four, we don't get the business, and I think that makes it different than some of the tax credits that get criticized because we're investing in something that might otherwise happen. Yeah, all right. Okay, other comments, edits, amendments?
 Mayor, I apologize, but I have a couple of amendments to suggest on my items, so I should have caught them before. One is on studded tires, last line in page 2. What page is that? Page 2 of the whole thing.
 It says now local authority to recoup costs from this disproportionate wear will help keep roadways safer. Actually, I think that we would support legislation to either assess fees on studded tires or to give local governments authority to ban them. So I was thinking of saying local authority to prevent or recoup costs. Okay. Martha, does that give you any heartburn? No.
 It does not, except grammatically. I think we might want to say local authority to recoup costs or prevent their use. I think we have to be a little bit more clear about what it is we're saying. I was thinking prevent could mean prevent costs by batting the tires. Oh, okay. Or maybe the word's avoid. Yeah, avoid would be fine, too. Okay. To avoid or recoup.
 Okay. More comfortable with that. The other thing is the previous item, this is more substantive, orphan highways. It says jurisdictional transfer can help realign responsibility and authority over orphan highways. However, the process can be expensive. Dedicated state funding to assist in the transfer of orphan highways is necessary to help transfer more orphan highways. It occurs to me that...
 we want to express our continued support for our legislators who've gotten additional state resources for orphan highways even if they don't get enough resources to facilitate transfer
 So I was thinking that maybe we should add a sentence. Even if investments sufficient to facilitate jurisdictional transfer are out of reach, additional state investments should address the unique issues associated with these urban highways as are appropriate. Okay. I'll take those two as a package of amendments. Is there a second? Second. And we'll just make sure you've got the verbiage. Perfect. Any discussion of those amendments? Roll call. Okay.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Any others? There's one more thing. I don't actually mean this as an amendment. I discussed it with Martha before, but just something I wanted to say on the record and see if my colleagues agree. Last year there was a big push or last session there was a big push by the League of Cities to try to address some of the inequities in our property tax system, for example, to do reset on sale.
 I don't think that there's expected to be much of an effort this session. However, Josh Harwood just the other day gave me a chart that put into stark relief the spectacular inequities we have, particularly in Portland. Ninety percent of outer East Portland, east of 122nd, is in compression, which means that homeowners there are paying the maximum possible under Measure 5.
 in inner southeast and inner northeast, less than 2% of houses are in repression, which means that they are paying as a percentage of their real market value less than 90% of the people in outer east.
 So I think it's possible at least there might be some small efforts to address that. One possibility I've discussed with some legislators is to ask the voters to approve something saying that at least for local options and for bonds, for new ones, they be based on real market value rather than assessed value. Right. So I just wanted to see if people were comfortable with saying that if
 something along the property tax equity line seems likely to move in the legislature that we would encourage our team to weigh in. I'd certainly agree with that. So as long as it's agnostic as the position, but rather directed to follow it, I'd be comfortable with that. So we can have that as an understanding. If that issue starts to get some life, then that's where we are.
 And I expect there to be discussions about tax reform. We have a new chair in the Finance and Revenue Committee, Senator Haas, who has been a champion of tax reform for many, many years. So what we will do is we will monitor any and all discussions related to tax reform overall and specifically property taxes, and we will keep each of you informed on that. If there's opportunities and it seems appropriate for City to weigh in, we'll look for those opportunities. Good issue. Anything else? No.
 the legislators on the state legislative package anyone here it wants to speak on that item if not then we'll adopt the substitute as amended to the roll call Fritz this is the actual overall vote yes I'm supposed to say some nice things
 I do want to express my gratitude to Martha and the whole team. You do amazing work, and we hear that from the legislatures when we go to lobby. We hear it from Vicki Cram, and I particularly appreciate your work with me on the earned sick leave and the transportation and the mental health priorities for the state legislature. And on this one, we can wish you good luck with great joy, because we actually may have some good luck this time, and I'm hopeful that we'll get some of the changes that we need. Thank you.
 Fish. I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz said, and it's really a pleasure, Martha, to work with you and your team, and thanks to everybody for their good work. It isn't just on these days where we adopt an agenda. It's all the days in between when you help us navigate difficult waters, and it is true that every time we get, on a regular basis, we get feedback from our partners saying what a great job you do, which makes all of us especially proud. Hi. Hi.
 Novick? It is a pleasure and an honor to work with your team. I have to tell you that next time I go to Washington, D.C., I'm going to wait until 12 hours before to let you know because if we give you 48 hours, you'll set up seven meetings for me. Hi. Hales. Hi.
 I appreciate the good work. This is what Churchill called the end of the beginning. So now the real work starts in terms of trying to turn these ideas into policy, and looking forward to working as part of that team myself, including about 10 days from now when we're going to be in D.C. together. So I'm looking forward to all that work, and thanks for setting us up well for it. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, good work. And if I may, Mr. Mayor, I also just want to thank each of you for your leadership and your staffs and all of our legislative liaisons and underscore the importance of having you present in Salem and in Washington, D.C. And believe us when we say we will be calling on each of you to participate in this process because it makes –
 A huge difference to have you there, to have your leadership when we work with our intergovernmental partners. And I also want to echo and thank my team as well. There are actually people who aren't in this room, and we even have our newest staff member today, Carrie Paffle. It is her first day in our office, and she's my new assistant. But people upstairs, Amy Joukowsky and Leslie Kelly and Hector Miramontes, we do really work as a team in our office, and we are delighted to work on behalf of the city of Portland.
 and so thank you very much thank you all okay we have one more item on the calendar this afternoon we'll reconvene it free near well we have to wait till three don't we well wait a minute if we're dismissing well there might be something okay yeah we probably better wait easy enough to come back indeed in 36 minutes hard time sir i'm already for one or two minutes
 We even need four of us. Okay, we'll call at 3 o'clock and return the council to session. We were in session, but we recessed because this is scheduled for a time certain, and now it is that time. So could you read the item, please?
 Item 44, consider the proposal of Sam Rodriguez, Mill Creek Residential Trust, LLC, and the recommendation from the hearings officer for approval to change the comprehensive plan map designation from high-density multi-dwelling to central commercial and the zoning map designation from RHD, high-density multi-dwelling residential, 44.
 with a design overlay zone to CXD, Central Commercial with Design Overlay Zone, for property in the vicinity of Southwest 20th and 19th Avenues and Southwest Main and Madison Streets, LU14105474CPCC, and Item 45.
 amend the Comprehensive Plan map designation and amendments, and amend the zoning map for property in the vicinity of Southwest 20th and 19th Avenues and Southwest Main and Madison Streets at the request of Sam Rodriguez, Mill Creek Residential Trust LLC, LU14105474CPZC. Okay. Commissioner Fritz, I believe you have a motion to make. I do, Mayor. Thank you.
 I move that the Council adopts an order that states the applicant has withdrawn the underlying application for a comprehensive plan map amendment and zone change in this case. As a result, the Council lacks jurisdiction to address the substantive issues raised in response to the hearings office's recommendation on the application or to approve or deny it. All Council proceedings on this application are terminated and it will receive no further consideration by the Council.
 Council expressly takes no position on the arguments raised by the applicant, supporters, opponents and others concerning the substantive merits of the application or the hearings officer's recommendation. And the effect of the applicant's withdrawal of the application and the Council's action is that the site's comprehensive plan designation remains high density multi-dwelling and the zoning remains RH.
 Okay. Is there any more council discussion of that motion? And then we don't normally take testimony on procedural motions, but is there anyone who feels the need to speak on this item? Okay. All right. Good. Thank you. Then if there's no further discussion or public testimony, we'll take a roll call vote on the motion.
 Fritz? Well, we were tempted to go ahead and move this a little earlier because we finished with our other item and we thought, well, it's a time certain, we shouldn't do it beforehand. So I'm really glad that we did because here you are. The neighborhood provided a lot of really great testimony in this case and I think that the applicant heard the testimony and weighed their options and agreed.
 I certainly am very pleased with this outcome because I think the right designation is the RH, and I very much appreciate all of your good work. Thank you.
 Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hayles? Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And thank you all. I think there's a pretty consistent theme here, at least in terms of the last couple years of work by the Council on Land Use Decisions, and it's not been arbitrary and capricious before that, but that is that if you want to change the plan, if you want to change
 If you want a variance or deviation from the plan that people work hard on in the legislative process, the burden of proof is on the person who wants the change. And it's a pretty high burden of proof. And there have been a number of cases here recently in the council where we've consistently applied that principle, that if you want to change the plan that people work so hard on in the legislative process,
 you really have to get over a pretty high bar. And that means that everybody, whether it's neighbors or property owners who want to develop or developers, has a lot of certainty about what the plan provides. And likewise, if the plan says RH, you should expect that that will develop a high-density housing development because that's what RH means.
 So we, I believe, as somebody who's been involved in the land use process for a long time, that everybody is well served by that very high level of certainty in a very infrequent instance of the council adopting ad hoc changes to this or that pieces of property around the city.
 And I think that's exactly what we're exhibiting in this case. So I hope that this does improve people's confidence in the process and also reminds everybody to stay involved in the community planning side of the work because we're working on our comprehensive plan right now. And I know there are issues in Goose Hollow and elsewhere around the city that will affect the future of the neighborhood and will affect the future outcome of cases like this.
 So please do stay involved, and then I look forward to the successful development of this property under the rules that apply to it. Thank you all very much. Vote aye. We just need to note that item 45 is being referred back to the commissioner's office. And so item 45 is referred back, and that concludes our business for this afternoon. We're recessed until 6 p.m. Thank you all. Thank you. Carl? Yes.
 top of the team for areas 47 good evening everyone welcome to the portland city council meeting carla would you please call the roll fritz here fish here saltzman here novick here hales here welcome everybody um we're going to have some
 procedural items here of Carla reading the three ordinances make some opening remarks then we're going to take up the business related ordinance number 46 first so Carla would you please read all three item 46 create the Portland Street Fund and establish a non-residential transportation fee to fund Portland Street maintenance and transportation safety needs
 Item 47, establish a residential transportation income tax to fund Portland Street maintenance and transportation safety needs through the Portland Street Fund. And item 36, direct the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services to research and report to council on the feasibility of applying a local income tax to income earned in Portland by individuals who are not residents. Great. Thank you.
 So let me reset the context for this. It's been some weeks since the council worked on these issues, and, of course, we've had 14 months of community conversations about transportation revenue. That is, of course, part of a much longer timetable. If you haven't read the audit, which we received in the second month of my administration here, in February of last year, called Street Pavement, Condition Shows Need for Better Stewardship,
 I would recommend going to the auditor's website and doing that. I think all of my colleagues have seen this audit before, but I brought copies just in case anyone needs a refresher. We've all seen it. And, again, I would encourage you to take a look at that audit because that was really the foundation of this work. You can't see the details from here, but you might see the direction of that graph.
 from repaving a little over 200 miles of city streets in 2001-2002. That had declined to 30 miles in 2011-2012.
 Last year, we got that back up to 100 miles, which we're happy about, but we are very, very far behind, hundreds of millions of dollars behind in street maintenance and street repair and safety improvements that our city needs.
 So that's the context for this. Again, if you haven't read that audit, I would encourage you to do that. We have a lot of work to do this evening, so I won't speak much longer than that for now. But I'm going to call on Commissioner Novick for any opening remarks that he has. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So as probably most of you know, the –
 Subject to discussion tonight will be somewhat different from what we thought it would be a week ago. What we were going to do tonight is have the initial hearing on a new user fee proposal. And I hope that we have some discussion of that proposal tonight because it might be one of the things we send out for an advisory vote. The new user fee was going to look like this. We know from national statistics that –
 People who make more money tend to spend more money on gasoline. The people in the top 20% of income consume about four times as much gas on average as people in the bottom 20% of income. So taking gasoline use as an indicator of road use, we thought we could have a user fee that varies by income to the extent that gasoline consumption tends to vary by income.
 So the proposal is people in the lowest income quintile would pay $3 a month. People in the second quintile would pay $5 a month. People in the third quintile, the middle quintile, would pay $7.45 a month. People in the fourth quintile would pay $9 a month. And people in the top 20% would pay $12 a month. That's the proposal that the Portland Tribune endorsed in this morning's paper.
 And I've asked people to think about that proposal because what we're going to do for the May ballot is send out several different proposals. We will send out a progressive income tax, and I think that we'll send out something pretty close to what Commissioner Fritz and I discussed recently. We will send out a version of a gas tax, which I hope will make people happy who come here to campaign for a gas tax. And I think that we will send out some form of user fee.
 So one of the things we ask people to address tonight is if there's going to be a user fee on the ballot, should it be something like what we proposed in May or something like we just described or something else? So this whole evening is not going to be focused on this particular proposal, but I do want you to think about the proposal. Thank you.
 And with that, I think that we can turn things over to Jamie. Yeah. Ms. Waltz, come on up and talk about the proposed amendments on the non-residential ordinance, please.
 Jamie Welts with Portland Bureau of Transportation. The majority of the amendments or all of the amendments for the non-residential transportation fee are not substantive in nature. We basically were switching out the term tax for fee based on the substitute ordinance that we were going to be putting forward. We also made some clarifications. We added a whereas clause to clarify that the
 elements or factors for the non-residential transportation fee were based on number of employees' annual gross revenue earned within the City of Portland and square footage.
 We also made a minor change to the eligible use of revenues just to emphasize that projects, the number of projects that would be constructed are based on the available resources, depending on what the net revenue would be. And then for the actual table that appears in code that helps describe where somebody falls within the different fee categories, we made some changes to –
 the way that the numbers were shown in terms of square footage, gross revenue employees, just to make it easier for people to determine where they land within one of the five categories. Okay. Questions for Jamie?
 All right. Thank you very much. So now we're going to take action in a few minutes on adopting these amendments. Again, it's our intention to first address those amendments and then go on to the residential potential revenue measures for residential ratepayers later in the evening. So is there anyone here who's here to speak specifically and only on these amendments to the non-residential ordinance? Yes. Mr. Mayor, I guess...
 It was my understanding there was going to be language that would also say that the non-residential portion does not take effect if there is not a residential portion of a tax. There's another way to do that, which is what I intend to do, which is at the conclusion of this hearing, I'm going to refer this item back to Commissioner Novick's office. So we're going to adopt the amendments, make sure this piece of legislation is completed as far as the council is concerned, and then return it to his office.
 So it won't take effect until and unless there is a residential portion of a user fee or tax. Correct. Or we wouldn't actually vote on it. Vote on it. So it certainly wouldn't take effect. Correct. So, again, Mr. McCullough, come on up if you want to testify on the amendments to the non-residential ordinance. Madam Clerk, I gave you some material for the commissioners. Thank you.
 Mayor Hales, commissioners, it's a pleasure to be with you tonight. Good evening. As before, I would like to apply for two additional minutes as a representative. And put your name in the record, Robert. Yes, you're here on behalf of Southeast Uplift, so we'll certainly allow that. As you know, I'm new to testifying. I apologize. Robert McCullough, president, Southeast Uplift. If anyone does not have these materials, raise your hand. Fine. Thank you. Thank you.
 And I'll ask your indulgence for the half minute, given the... Oh, did she start the clock? Yes. Sorry about that. I'm not worried about it. I won't count against you. I have one preliminary issue. It's very quick. As you know, we have received materials from PBOT. That was a struggle. Ended up in court. We had a settlement...
 with City Attorney Thatcher. That's been performed on. We see no reason for further litigation. We're hoping the city does not. We have sent such a letter. In fact, we brought our lawyer in case you all want to smile at him, James Dale Baxendale. Basically, transparency is part of what the Neighborhood Association process is about. We also paid some $2,000-plus dollars
 for three small spreadsheets. We've asked for that to be waived and returned. Our understanding is those were in existence. Only a few columns were redacted. That's fine with us. So that makes it easily the most expensive spreadsheets known to man. Again, all of our dollars are used for community purposes, and so money taken from us simply are taken from the people. So to the issue
 My comments tonight are operational. I'm wearing my green eye shade. I decided not to wear a green eye shade, but they are specifically on the non-residential portion and the implementation of the non-residential portion. As you know, we've been through the proposed legislation in detail. It has a variety of operational issues. It will be difficult to collect. It has issues with overestimation and also issues with equity issues.
 On the equity issue, it's a simple one. The staff used a sample of businesses from the city to derive the share for each type of business. We focused on transportation because, of course, Portland is a transportation hub. That sample of businesses was 52. The 52 businesses were a scoping study. They were preliminary. They clearly were never checked.
 It came immediately to mind that the Paramount Tattoo Parlor does not do much trucking. We also believe that Volunteers of America doesn't do much air transport. We're fairly certain the resale shop in Northeast Portland does not do much railroading. In point of fact, the major transportation entities were not included and erroneous entries were. What this means is that the weight of the taxes got misallocated.
 And unfairly, medical is now too high, transportation is too low. Now, we're going to have some time now before we get there, and so we would comment to Commissioner Novick, it's a good time to send your staff back. Let's certainly clear the poor tattoo parlor out of the transportation sector. But I would also recommend that we put Delta Airlines and the Union Pacific Railroad back into the transportation sector, even though I like Delta Airlines.
 So then to the serious operational issue. The revenue forecast as developed is 100,000 firms. Unfortunately, it's also full of errors. Among those errors is the largest single employer in the city, which is, of course, the Allswell that ends well colonic cleaning company.
 Three small, three women who run it. Very fine. I ask their permission to use their name. I think in the interest that no publicity is bad publicity. I find myself discussing colonic cleaning for the first time in my career of 35 years. I brought forward to you Exhibit D. This is directly from your proposed legislation. You'll notice two red arrows here.
 Now, what's happened here is because the scoping study used the wrong employment data, and we presume, analytically, the wrong revenue data. The column the firm was in was wrong. They're placed in column C, which is for a mid-sized business. However, they only have three employees. They, in fact, have a small office next to the very well-respected lawyer, Cynthia Comfort,
 It is probably not 40,000 square feet as covered in the study. Now, what this means operationally is that we will not be recovering $20 million. Moreover, we know that the problem is pervasive rather than simply an example. When you go through the study, we discovered that there are 2 million jobs in the scoping analysis. That's eight times the actual number of jobs in the city.
 This means that the vast majority of your columns, Commissioner Novick, will be wrong. And it means that your revenues will be wrong. And what it also means is you won't collect the money. Let me close on one note. Each one of these entries, thousands of incorrect entries, will now have to be litigated and checked.
 So if we look to the Ross Island Cement Company, which we all know well, hundreds of trucks, they only have seven employees. So you're going to have to pursue them to get their revenues up to the appropriate level. So the good news is the ladies with the cloning cleansing are being cleaned out. The bad news is that Ross Island cement apparently is scampering away with the goods.
 Thank you very much, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you. I appreciate you bringing this forward. Obviously, there will be time now, and obviously, I call on you as a volunteer to work with Thomas Lanham, who's here from the Revenue Bureau, and Commissioner Novick and the staff from the Transportation Bureau to iron out any of these methodological questions before we take this back up. Mr. McCullough, you'll be happy to know that all of us associated with the Transportation Bureau, our first New Year's resolution was spend more time with Robert McCullough.
 I want you to know I have never had so much fun working my tail off over the holidays for no pay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Thank you for your diligence in looking into these things. You're welcome. Okay. Anyone else that wants to speak on the amendments to the non-residential ordinance? If not, and then if there's no objection, then I'm going to return that ordinance. Yes.
 I'm sorry, we do have to adopt the amendments first. So let's adopt the amendments and then I'll refer it back. So roll call on adopting the amendments. I'm sorry, who moved and seconded? I move that we adopt the amendments. Second. I'll catch up to myself here procedurally. Eventually. It's been a long day. Okay, any further discussion? Now a roll call, please, on adopting the amendments. Fish? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Okay.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, thank you very much. And then I'll refer item number 46 back to Commissioner Novick's office. Okay, now we'll start work on the residential question. Let's see, do we have amendments? Yes.
 So Commissioner Novick's already explained the latest version of the residential funding proposal. That is one potential measure that we will send for voter review in an advisory vote that we plan to conduct in the May ballot.
 So therefore, what we are doing tonight is asking people to come before the council and comment on that as one of those potential candidate measures and to recommend any other measure that you would like your fellow citizens to call past judgment on.
 As Commissioner Novick said, some of the ideas that we've discussed over the last 14 months include a fee-based approach like this. We've also discussed an income tax-based approach, as he's described. A lot of people came to our public hearings and recommended that we consider a city gas tax approach.
 as opposed to the state and federal gas taxes, which already exist, that we should consider a city gas tax as one way to pay the bills. And there are other ideas as well. So tonight's session is focused on the question of what are you for and what would you like to have your fellow citizens pass judgment on.
 That is the only question before us tonight. If you're concerned about how we spend the transportation dollars that we already have, I urge you to come to the budget session for the Portland Bureau of Transportation that will be held later this spring. That is not the subject of this evening's hearing. If you don't like one of the measures, I urge you to campaign against it and convince your fellow citizens to vote no when that option is presented to them.
 The sole purpose of tonight's hearing is to hear what people are for and what they would like to have their fellow citizens look at and consider. One way or another, according to our auditor, we should be spending about $75 million a year more on street repair and improvements than we are today.
 One way or another, that's the bill that we have to pay. We hope that the Oregon legislature will increase the state gas tax this session and that some of that money will, as it always does, flow down through a formula to the city of Portland. That will solve part of that enormous problem. The rest of it is up to us. The business or the non-residential ordinance that you just heard us discuss and put on the shelf for now is,
 we'll raise about $20 million to $23 million a year. It is the goal for the residential side of this equation to be roughly equal to that and to also raise $20 million to $23 million a year. So we are looking for ideas that would raise that much, and the proposals that you heard Commissioner Novick describe would be capable of raising that kind of revenue.
 So we're interested in things that are practical, understandable, and explainable to our fellow citizens. They will go out in an advisory ballot, which we haven't done in the city of Portland before, but which is done actually quite often in other cities like Seattle. They seem to like that approach. We're going to try it. And we don't have to have every legal or technical issue completed necessarily.
 to ask people what they think of an idea, but we have to be able to describe it. For example, a gas tax. We have to be able to tell them that a gas tax for the city of Portland that would raise about $23 million a year would be this many cents. And actually, I don't know that number yet, but we'll need to know that number before we send it out to the voters. That a fee would have to be in a range of, say, $3 to $12 per household.
 We believe that that would raise about that amount of money. Or that an income tax at such and such a rate and at such and such a graduation schedule would raise about that much money. There are ideas that have been suggested to us which are understandable in their concept but are impractical in their effect. For example, a number of people have suggested that we tax bicycles. You would have to charge thousands of dollars per bicycle
 in order to raise $20 million a year. And you would also have to collect that, and I would say, good luck with that proposition. So we're looking for things that are doable and sufficient to the task and that can be explained to our fellow citizens in a few sentences.
 So we've got a few ideas, and we're here to ask for more. Again, if you have concerns about how the city of Portland is spending its transportation dollars today, those concerns are legitimate, and there will be a public forum for you to air them. It's called the budget hearing, and we do it every year. If you have objections to one or more of these ideas and think it's really a terrible thing, you will have the opportunity to go door-to-door or otherwise convince your fellow citizens that it's a terrible idea.
 But what we're asking you for tonight is what you're for and what you'd like to promote and suggest as a practical way to solve a community problem that we all own. We own the streets. They're the biggest asset we have, and half of them are in poor or fair condition, and they're declining. So we've got a big problem to solve, and we're looking for ways to do that.
 With that, Commissioner Novick, do you have any other comments before we open the hearing? Just two things about potential options I wanted to mention. I haven't heard many people call for a sales tax, but obviously that's something other places have. We have good reason to know that it would be a highly unpopular proposal, but I'm interested in people think that's something we should put on the ballot anyway. Okay.
 And also the property tax is something that I haven't heard much about in these forums, but I know the Oregon editorial board has been promoting it. So I'm curious if people think that a property tax mechanism is something that we should explore as well.
 Thank you. Other council comments? So just logistically, my understanding is that you're planning a Tuesday the 20th evening hearing. If the council's available that night. To actually have a hearing on a proposal.
 So we're not planning to refine a proposal tonight. There will be something that's identified that will be published that the council will then vote at that later hearing on whether or not to refer it. That's right. So there will be all the specifics of –
 when you're planning to refer it for the May of 15. That's right. And it'll be that week. If council's available the night of the 20th, that was my preferred time because I have to be at the U.S. Conference of Mayors and I'd have to phone in for a council meeting on the 21st or the 22nd. So I'd prefer the 20th for that reason. So tonight is your opportunity to give us suggestions about what you'd like to see if that proposal moves forward. The later hearing will be to decide whether or not to actually move forward with it.
 Okay. Other questions or comments? With that, then I believe we have a sign-up sheet and we'll take the first three. Now we have, how many people do we have signed up? We have 27. 27. Okay. We're going to ask you to please try to keep your comments brief. Again, we're asking for a succinct proposal of what you would like to see on the ballot. So details are, you don't have to have everything figured out, but we want to hear what your idea is. The first three are Robert McCullough, Gary Sargent, and Craig Rogers.
 Robert McCullough, Southeast Uplift. I've spoken before, so I'll be mercifully brief. Southeast Uplift requests that one option on the ballot be no. That will be available on each of these items. So the question is what item Southeast Uplift would like to see. And that we will work on and get to you. The answer to your question is each penny brings $2 million to $3 million if applied to the full set of fuels.
 Thank you very much. It's my anniversary. I'm going to leave you for a much more beautiful person. Tell Karen we apologize for diverting you temporarily. I certainly will. Thank you very much, mayors and commissioners. Happy anniversary. And to clarify, therefore, the proposal is not to list a bunch of things and say pick one. The proposal is to refer a bunch of different questions, which the answer will be yes or no.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Somebody could vote no on everything. All right. Gary, good evening. Oh, yes. Good evening, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. I'm Gary Sargent, and I run a business. My 40th year as president of our small business out in southeast Portland. I also serve as vice president of the 82nd Avenue of Roses Business Association. In regards to these proposals, what I...
 I think that a key component in any of the proposals out there needs to encompass how do you bring in the people that are using our roads, that are leaving at night and going to Clackamas and going to Hillsboro and going out to Troutdale. How do you incorporate those people into it? I thought very hard about that, and the only way to do that is through payroll.
 some kind of a payroll contribution, if you will, for lack of a better term. I'm ecstatic at the fact that you're willing to work with Robert in regards to some of these discrepancies. But I also read the streetcar audit. And as a businessman, I know we're going to discuss this, but there's a lot of things that need to get put back in order financially to gain back the citizens' trust to pass anything through a vote. Right.
 And I just urge you to heed what the auditor has said in regards to the streetcar. And I have these highlighted here, but I realize that you've set some ground rules, Mr. Mayor. I appreciate that. The payroll tax is an interesting idea. I'm not sure...
 I'm not sure if we have the legal authority, but it's a good thing. We'll go check. If they work in Portland, they're driving to Portland, they're using Portland roads. No, I understand, but there are some taxes where the legislature has preempted our authority to collect them. Well, Mr. Sergeant, no relation to Sergeant Towing. No, don't you even go there. No, I dispel that. Dan, sorry about your car. No. So is the model that you would ask us to look at the TriMet model? No.
 Well, something it has to has to incorporate how you can get people that are using the road that live somewhere else. Look, we're we're we're you're asking the citizens of Portland to pay for the Selwood Bridge. Most people that live in Clackamas are the ones using that. They turn down that $19 per year registration fee.
 So you have to think about how can you incorporate those people into the equation, and I think then you will regain the trust. PBOT has serious issues in reading that audit financially when there's discrepancies in accounting to the point to where it also states by your auditor that it violates state law. That's very concerning as a businessman to read that.
 And anyway, I appreciate your time. I appreciate this suggestion. We will go investigate that and see whether we have the authority and what the rate would have to be in order to raise the revenue. It is what TriMet primarily depends on. It doesn't mean only they could use it if it's legally possible. I think there's now six-tenths of 1% of payroll, and that's the major revenue source for TriMet is a 0.6% payroll tax, which you pay and every other business pays.
 So, good point. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Mayor, commissioners, thank you for this opportunity to share with you what I'm for. So, having... Put your name in the record again. Oh, Craig Rogers. Thank you. It's been a fair amount of time, you know, observing, participating in this moving forward. And I hope I never see the day where a policy is developed...
 that is a tax that does not have a vote, an oversight, and a sunset as this originally did. I think that there was an incentive to make it as good as it could have been because it wasn't intended to be passed by the people but by city council. So what I'm for, and I hope I never see it again where that happens, what I'm for is that from this day forward,
 We have policies, we have taxes that are voted by the people rather than council, and that there's a real oversight and a sunset. I think that's very important. Never has it ever occurred in the history of Portland where there was a tax passed other than by the people who were to be taxed. And I want to say that I think the money needs to be responsibly spent,
 that is garnered here, in fact, more than just for transportation, that I wouldn't want to be the person who tells a mother that's living on these 56 miles unpaved street with no sidewalks that we can't put a street in front of your house or a sidewalk because we just gave $8 million to Mercedes-Benz for a parking facility. So I think we need to kind of bump it up and think about the big picture, where this money's going and how it's collected.
 And I just want to thank you. Okay. Do you have a revenue mechanism that you'd like to see on the ballot? Thank you for asking, Charlie. Offhand, without looking at the details, I'd say gas tax. Okay. Mr. Rogers, you said that there shouldn't be a tax without a vote of the people. This is an advisory vote. So once then the council reviews the result of it, would you then expect whatever the proposal would be to go back to the ballot to be approved by the people? Yes, I would.
 Thank you. Okay. Thanks both of you. Next please. Oh, I'm sorry. There was a request for people with small children or people with disabilities that can come up and speak. I'm sorry I forgot to do that at the outset. We often do that when there are especially evening hearings. So anyone with a disability or who's got either kids here or kids you've got to get home to because they're in daycare in order for you to be here, come on up. Good evening. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Most people...
 that have been following this agree with you that we have to fix our streets. I live on 74th and Division, so it's very close to 82nd Street. And anything east of 82nd Street is in terrible shape. Everybody is in agreement with you on that.
 And we do not argue with the audit, and we do not argue that we have to raise somewhere around $50 million a year more in order to catch up. And it will take us a while to catch up. All of that is not in debate. Here's what's in debate. We don't trust you. We haven't gotten an answer of what you did with the original amount of money for transportation.
 and who you held accountable for that. You keep saying you have no money, and you'd say, well, okay, the gas tax, we spent a lot of our time telling people not to drive, and the gas tax dropped because people aren't driving. So you really need to step it up with the state and get the state to raise the gas tax. Everybody's in agreement with that.
 So we need you to lead the charge, and we need to support you doing that. I think that our legislators and our representatives, at least mine, would not have a problem raising the taxes if we can fix our streets. The second problem you have is the vote of the people. An advisory vote is toilet paper. That's what it is. It's useless.
 Unless you have to go to the bathroom. You have to tell the people, this is what we have. This is what we need. Vote on it and give us your okay. If you do this advisory thing and you list out six things, first of all, people are going to look at the ballot and think that what they vote on is going to pass. That's what they're going to think.
 But that's not going to happen. It's going to come back to you guys. And unless you vote, all 600,000 and two of you have made it very clear that you will not accept any program unless the vote of the people has happened. And I know there's tremendous pressure on you. And the reason that I was smiling when I came in is this is great drama for a political animal.
 Because I know there's terrible pressure on two commissioners over here, because one commissioner has already said she's out of it. And I think you know who I'm talking about when I say she. And it narrows it down. Thanks, Joe. My last suggestion is on the list of things that you put down, whether it's a gas tax or a property tax, put down should the people vote on this.
 That will be number one. Thanks, Joe. All right, next. The next three are Terry Parker, Harry Sampson, and I believe it's Betty A. Solchka, maybe? Okay, come on up. And they'll be followed by Dorothy Rowland, Kim Marks, and Nishant Bajara. I think you're on first, Mr. Parker. Good evening. My name's Terry Parker. I live in northeast Portland, and I'm going to deviate from my written testimony to some degree. What we have here...
 is a failure to communicate. Any additional taxation that links a street fee to an individual's gasoline usage is double dipping from the people that already pay while exempting the people that don't. Transit fares do not help pay for the heavy damage TriMet buses do to city streets and funding bicycle infrastructure is for the most part siphoned off or poached from gas tax revenues.
 The bicycles themselves act like kamikaze pilots, seemingly coming out of nowhere, weaving in and out of traffic interchangeably, using the sidewalk and the street to evade traffic control devices.
 PBOT advisory and budget committees are stacked extras representing the alternative mode, stuffed with bicycle advocates and the manipulative, I want, I want, I want, you pay approach to bicycle safety. Instead of just representing the special interests, when are you going to end the discriminatory social engineering and start representing the primary financial stakeholders? The people who by driving comprise 80 percent of the trips in Portland,
 metro area and already paid transportation taxes, thereby contributing to the economy. Promoting one less driver is promoting one less transportation taxpayer. This is an equity issue, not a mode issue.
 Sharing the road must require sharing the financial responsibility. I have said it before and I will say it again. Bicycles are not royalty. If you are going to ask the public for an advisory vote, now is the time to ask the public as a whole if adult bicyclists should pay license, user and or license and registration fees as part of a total funding package, not a standalone package.
 And I don't think any money should be spent on bicycle infrastructure until this takes place and until they start showing safety themselves as they ride today. After any proposed advisory vote, any proposed street fee must still end up with an up or down vote by the people. If the answer is an income tax or an income-like tax, it must have a 99.9% collection rate
 The final outcome of any new funding method must also have a goal of financial self-sustainability for the alternative modes, coupled with a better balance of priorities. These priorities must include motor vehicle infrastructure, capacity and parking improvements as opposed to road diets.
 A transparent prerequisite of motorist equity that includes a proportionate representation on PBOT committees and the premise that motorist paid taxes and fees are no longer used as an ATM to pay for alternative infrastructure. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening.
 My name is Betty Salaga. I have observed this whole process and read every piece of paper that's been published. I think this whole process has been a terrible shame, and the residents of Portland have been totally disrespected in this. Throwing one new plan, one scheme here, one scheme there, it's really been a farce.
 And this advisory vote is adding more on to that. It's comical. And we don't deserve this. We deserve to have our streets in repair. And you had the money and you squandered it for years. Why do we have to come up with the money now? We've asked at various town halls and meetings, when is the city going to look at the city's budget?
 Where are you going to take some money out of the city's budget and put it on these streets? There's a $4 billion budget. Is that correct about...
 If you count all the different budgets. But, again, we're here to ask you what you're for tonight. Well, I'm for the city having some skin in the game. I'm for the city. In fact, you just put out a press release today or yesterday that was telling the bureaus that they needed to think before they asked for new programs because they couldn't fund all of the new programs. Well, let's just put those programs on hold.
 for a couple of years. The barber project does not need to be done right now. Any other light rail does not need to be done right now. It's just your preference. So why don't you just put some things on hold, let some streets get repaired, and put some money up for this? Why do the citizens have to pay for this again? My property taxes are in excess of $8,000. They go up every year now $1,500. Okay.
 Portland public schools will have a new bond measure coming up that will add another $2 to that per assessed value. So I just think that the citizens deserve a good look in the budget of where you can take some money and put it toward this.
 Thank you. Well, as I mentioned, you'll have the opportunity to look at that budget extensively over the next several months while we open the books and prepare to adopt the budget for next year. But you didn't say you would look at it. Well, of course I look at it. It's my job. Well, but you didn't say that. Well, of course we will. We spend hours and hours and hours on the budget in my office, believe me. We haven't heard anything from you about what you think can be used, what you think can be reduced. You'll see that, as always, in the budget. It's a big budget. Thank you.
 But just as a clarification, the general fund is $400 million about. Right.
 So that when you talk about $4 billion, much of that is things like water and sewer and all those kinds of things. But we all know that you all made exceptions, or some of you did when you were voting for all of Randy's cockamamie things, that you made exceptions. You made exceptions and took money from anywhere and everywhere to buy things we didn't need. But the whole general fund is $400 million. More than half of that goes to police and fire.
 So that's where the bulk of the money goes to. But please participate because we do have an extensive budget process, and we welcome more eyes looking for those hidden pots of money that we haven't yet found.
 Actually, ma'am, hardly anybody ever comes to the budget hearings asking that we cut something. Usually people are asking for more money for something. So it would be an interesting change of pace to have anybody come to the budget hearings saying we cut anything. Well, why don't you all say no? Well, we often do. So, again, I want to give you that opportunity. And, again, one thing I guess I hope you would remember is for the five of us who are here now, regardless of how the money was spent in the past, we don't get to revisit the past. Right.
 We get to do it right now, and you get to tell us what right means. So look at our budget, tell us what to cut, and tell us what you'd like to spend more on. And on this particular subject, tell us what you'd like your fellow citizens to look at over the next couple weeks.
 Thank you. Good evening. Yes, this is important. People came down to this meeting. Before the meeting, we weren't told there was going to be a limitation on what we could talk about. That's censorship. And it's important that we know when you do the streets that you're not going to be wasting money having some people come out waiting to do their work. How do we know what streets they're going to do? How do we know you're not going to...
 I said make cuts in the city budget. You're saying bicycle wouldn't raise much money. That's true, but that'd be safety too. If they have lighter plates on the bicycles, there'll be less bicycles stolen. That still would help on the streets.
 You need to cut your budget. Nothing has been said about the budget. This is a meeting you're getting the people to go to. As Novak says, budget meeting not many people are going to. This is where we're coming to. And I think it's 100% wrong when you don't believe in the United States. It's a choice of the people. How many people are here coming down saying we want it voted on? Period.
 And I've called people up and said, that's the freedom of the United States, the people's choice. All these people are saying it's voting on and needs to be voted on and needs to be voted on. You can't elect, name one official you can elect that's going to do everything the people want. That's why we're having meetings and you're ignoring the people saying we want it voted on.
 You listen to news once when you were speaking, you said the street tax should be voted on. You didn't say that it didn't count. It was count. So the people are saying it needs to be voted on. It's about time you commissioned it. No, that's the price of freedom. When you get enough people down here assisting on and being voted on, you shouldn't question us. Put it up for a vote. We live in the United States.
 freedom. How much money is spent overseas to fight for freedom? And you are taking it away from us. In your regular meetings, do you get as many people coming as for this street tax? No. That shows they wanted to vote on it. It's time you listened to us. I've called up Fritz's office and others and said, why aren't you listening to the majority of the people that wanted to vote it on? No response. It's a shame that you're doing that.
 That's taken away our freedom. And for you to announce there what we could talk on, that was not said in the paper. It was going to be a meeting on the street tax. Nothing that we have to limit what we talk on. Well, we're here about what you want to pay for and how you want to pay for it.
 The work, you need to take money out of other things, like Sweaters downtown, $114,000. Well, for our businesses, other neighborhood needs businesses, Sweaters was donated. It wasn't advertised. Money down the drain. Okay. Thank you very much. And you need to listen to the people now. Thank you. Okay. Next, please. The next three are Dorothy Rowland, Kim Marks, and Nishant Bajaria. Good evening, Ms. Rowland. I think you're first.
 Good evening, Mayor, President of the Council, Commissioners. Just put your name into the record, too, please. Oh, thank you. My name is Dorothy Rowland. I live in southeast Portland. I'm a homeowner, and I'm retired. And I'm glad you mentioned the audit at the beginning of this meeting, Mayor. Thank you.
 I wasn't aware of the audit, and it's helpful to know what it says about us being behind in street maintenance. It's really discouraging and scary. And like everybody in this room, I know about the problems with the streets just because I try to drive my car, and there are lots of potholes, et cetera. Okay.
 I want to just say positive things tonight because I know that you all work really hard, and you just put yourselves on the line, and you do that for the people of Portland. But I can't say just positive things tonight because I'm not comfortable with the way that the existing revenues are being prioritized for spending. Thank you.
 I'm just not convinced that a new tax or a new fee needs to be levied on Portlanders in order to fix the streets. I think that our existing revenues can be budgeted better.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. And, again, I want to encourage you to take a look not only at the audit but at the budget when the proposed budget comes out. Take a look and give us your advice. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Cal Marks. I live in southeast Portland on 130th just off of Powell Boulevard.
 I came here tonight prepared to speak about the way that the funds would be used. So I'm speaking a bit off the cuff. But, however, before I do that, I want to kind of contradict or at least address one of the previous statements by one of the earlier speakers. If I had $1,000 for every time that a car, a driver, almost hit me and almost killed me,
 your budget problem would be solved. So it's not just a case of bike riders or pedestrians. There are people who drive who have just as many issues with their following the laws. Now, as for the modality, thank you, Commissioner Novick, for making sure that safety projects have been a major part of this discussion.
 I came here again tonight to speak to that issue, and I hope that it maintains its position as it's been proposed, as a major part of whatever is ultimately proposed.
 developed as this proposal. As for the type of way that we would draw revenue, I have expressed before and I'll express today, I am in favor of a progressive income tax. Gas taxes and user fees and even property taxes are regressive taxes.
 People who can afford to pay for these services need to pay for these services. People who are on limited incomes, people who are working for $9.15 an hour cannot afford to be nickeled and dimed with user fees or gas taxes. That is a significant portion of their budgets on a monthly basis. They cannot afford it.
 The people who can afford it should be paying for these services. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good evening. Good evening, Mayor. Nishan Bajaria, Portland, Oregon.
 My proposal in terms of what the ballot should look like would be an extra line that tells people, if you support none of the options the city gives you, what would you have us cut? Because if the idea is that we're tallying votes for what people want to use, if people don't support any of your options, ask them what would you cut in the existing budget. Because I don't buy the premise of your question that somehow we've got to come up with new revenue. And I just did some homework before coming down here, and I found out that the PBOT chief, Leah Treat,
 Her annual salary is more than $170,000. I called up Chicago, Mayor Emanuel's office. Their transportation commissioner makes $169,500. Chicago has four times the population of Portland, four times, if not more. They have more mileage in terms of the roads they cover. They have active public transportation. It makes no sense to me that their transportation commissioner should make less than ours.
 There's a position open right now on the City of Portland website for a communications specialist. At the high end, that job would pay $100,000. That's two and a half times the national median. Why the City of Portland needs to hire yet another communications person that makes $100,000 is beyond me. And I know I've talked about this before, Mayor, but I don't think I can trust you with handling my tax dollars properly after that trip you took.
 to the resort at Mount Hood, you know, you could have had that training in town. That was a diversity training for white men in the city of Portland. I'm not questioning the need for that training. You know, this is a complicated society of ours. Things happen. You could have had that training in town. You could have had that training in City Hall. You could have stayed in a hotel. You could have bought food from restaurants in town. That would have helped the local economy. There was no need to go to a luxury resort.
 I guarantee you, families sitting wondering how they're going to make yet another tax payment to the city are wondering why does the mayor need to go to a resort for a training that could have happened downtown. So when I look at your priorities, I don't know how much of this new revenue would be used to fix our streets. It's more a question of if the past has not been perfect at all or has not been ideal, how is this new money going to be used?
 The other issue that I have had is the explanation for why this cannot be sent to a vote has kept on changing. And now when you actually put something to a vote, again, it's not binding, which means people could say pretty much what they want to and you could come back and do something totally different. I don't understand how you can treat citizens that way.
 At some point, there needs to be a hard level of accountability where if people say this is not okay, it's not okay. And if that means we live with bad streets, we live with bad streets. But what you're doing right now is asking people for more money, and that means you never have to make any choices about what to cut. Let's try cutting something. Let's cut funds from the streetcar. Let's see if people desire it. Let's cut funding from someplace else. Let's see what people say. Let's force that choice, and then let's make those choices. Okay.
 But asking for more revenue is a cop-out, in my opinion. Thank you. Thank you. Again, I want to encourage you to come to the budget hearings, look at the budget, and tell us what to cut. I want to make sure you have other options as well. Don't just depend upon me. Let's ask the whole city. All ideas are welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next three. Our Ann Sanderson, Bob Clark, and Rick Bartko. And they'll be followed by John Cronin, Teresa Kishi Soto, and Jim Carlock. Good evening.
 Go ahead, Ms. Sanderson. Good evening. It's about my fifth time here. I think I'm getting a little more practice. My name is Ann Sanderson. I'm a small business owner, and I'm the head of Stop Portland Street Fee. So let me get this straight. Nine months ago, you do a telephone survey. You ask 800 people what they want to do to fund their streets, and you come up with what you decide is the least unpopular. That didn't work, so we saw version after version after version.
 And here we are, fast forward, and now you want to poll the entire city to find out what the least unpopular thing is. It's no way to govern, and it's no way to lead. It's no way to treat the people either. We've been in this since the very beginning with you. We've tried to have our say. We've tried to help you. I sat on a work group all summer, and yet we're still going back to ask on a survey.
 and a very expensive one at that. At one point you said that it was too expensive to fight a campaign and send it out to the voters for an up-and-down vote, and yet it's okay to spend all that money on a survey. It doesn't fly. So...
 You want to know what these options should be, and I'm going to suggest that you don't do anything you've already suggested. We've seen them, we've vetted them, the devil was in the details, and we're done with them. If you have some new suggestions, that's great. Apparently you're polling us again to find out what you should suggest. But don't go with the ones that you've tried. We've already seen them. And I'm going to suggest, for my part, that we want to see none of the above.
 because when it comes down to this, it is the one choice that would make sense for a lot of us. It's not that I'm anti-tax, as you've once suggested. It's I'm anti-bad tax. And every time you have a suggestion, when we get down to the details, we find out that it's not very good at all. So until you come up with something that actually works, then I suspect that we should vote none of the above. Thank you. So you don't have a suggestion for something that would actually raise revenue, because obviously none of the above wouldn't.
 No, not to raise revenue, but all the things you've suggested so far haven't flown in the details. I think they've been in there, right in there with you. It's criteria that you could use to decide what works or not works, but now you're punting. And punting's not good enough from a leader. Well, actually, for 14 years, the city of Portland has done nothing on this subject. And now we're looking for something, and we're asking you, if you're willing, to suggest something.
 what revenue you would like to raise. I spent my summer taking days off of work, sitting on a work group that would you... I'm going to tell you something. When we come in here and you say, we can only speak to this narrow focus of topic that we didn't prepare for, that was like the whole summer.
 You only want to hear what you want to hear. And we're talking to you and we're giving you suggestions. And I had a list of criteria at the beginning of the summer. I didn't bring it with me today because I've said it already. No one heard me then, and you don't hear me now. Okay, well, please send them because we're looking for measures that might make a difference. I know. Good evening. Hi, Bob Clark, Southeast Portland. I volunteer for the Taxpayer Association of Oregon. I would hope that this...
 Public advisory vote would ask the question, the ballot question would be, should city refer this such and such tax to voters for a vote or approval? And because of the gasoline tax by state law has to be referred to the people to be enacted. Okay.
 So is that the mechanism you recommend is the gas tax? I prefer the gasoline tax because there's an existing administrative mechanism
 Function, organization at the State of Oregon already takes care of this administrative task of this, I believe, reading the legislation. And now we don't have a hard estimate yet, but it may be that in order to raise, say, $20 million, that a city-only gas tax might have to be about 20 cents a gallon.
 Yeah, I think. Would you support a tax at that level? No. That's too much. You're asking maybe for too much. I would ask that you also consider using the general fund surplus you have projected for this year for all the street. That would get you $19 million. That would be quite a. Right. Some of that's one time. It's one time. I think it's a little better than that. I think it's.
 the range of 13 cents, depending in part on whether the county, which we have an IGA with the county which says that we're supposed to give them 20% of whatever we raise. We might be able to convince them to waive that. Okay. So 13 cents. Okay. I think 10 cents I could support. Okay. And especially now the gasoline prices are coming down. Right. It's come down by about a dollar a gallon. Yeah. And that should have actually helped you on the cost.
 The cost of asphalt, I would think. Yes, it will. Yes. So your targets should have come down, but we haven't seen that. No, it will help. Okay.
 I also like the original proposal, the user fee, what I was hoping for a $5 to $6 range. And that would be attached to your water bill. And that would be administratively easy again. Because the problem with the income taxes, besides being invasive to the filers, is that you're going to be spending a lot on administrative costs, like 15 new staff members, I saw. And you're going to have a lot of collection failure.
 So you're targeting $23 million in gross, but you're maybe going to get something a lot less than $20 million. Bob, can I ask you a question? You said that your preference would be a $5 or $6 or whatever the range. Well, that was my second to this gasoline. Whatever. I'm just taking the concept. But you then said throw it on the water bill. The water bill, of course, is the water sewer bill. Right, right. Water is a third of the bill. Sewer storm water is two-thirds. Right.
 I have this vague recollection that I've spent the last two years of my life involved in various fights, with you included, on keeping water sewers separate from the general fund. If we put this fee on a bill, aren't we violating the very principle that you took up in fighting for a water district, the merging of general fund and ratepayer-funded enterprises? We are, Commissioner Fish, but...
 Like we all know, making politics is like making sausage. And I would say that we, I can't anticipate the city coming back with this kind of. I appreciate it. I think it's a lot more cleaner. There's plenty of reasons to use the platform for water sewer. I have objected because in my, I've heard loud and clear from people like you that
 Yes, but last May I actually did support that. You would ask me whether I'd support it. I thought it would raise the water bill, but it was going to be like 5% to 6% kind of thing. And so I didn't, given a preference of an income tax or a fee on my water bill, and you say you're going to do it to us.
 I had to pick my poison. That's what you're telling me to do. I appreciate that. I'm just highlighting an irony in that proposal. I know that. We did fight over that question. Well, thank you. Appreciate that. Okay. So it may well be that if...
 If we have a list of options on the advisory ballot, we may have both a flat rate fee and a gas tax. But I would encourage you to refer it because, like most of the people here, they don't have much trust. And then the January 2013 city auditor report that preceded the February one said, where did the money go? So it's like – That raised very legitimate questions. So there's not a lot of trust, and you need to –
 encourage people not to be so irritated by asking which one of these would you want referred. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Rick Barco from southeast Portland, Mayor Hales, commissioners. The trust word keeps coming up. I think that's paramount in any of the leadership decisions that you make.
 Just to start off, I had some materials. I'm a little new to this, so I should have been here on the first go-around with McCullough, and I have some materials that are pertinent to what Mr. McCullough discussed about the
 the business fee. I have my contact information on there, so if you want to ask me some questions about it, I can. All right, thank you. So I just have a question. What's Multnomah County going to charge for a special election? It depends on how many other things are on the ballot. It'll cost somewhere between $100,000 and $300,000 to do this. My recommendation, I don't know if this is feasible, but could you put a survey on a Portland City website and just
 advertise that? It's another way to do it. What this will do, of course, is give every citizen of Portland a chance to tell us what they believe is right. Not everyone will return a ballot, of course, but everybody is given the opportunity in our state with mail ballots to express their opinion. So again, it's used in other states much more than it's been used here. I guess someone told me today that
 The city of Portland, during the Goldschmidt administration, which has been a while, did an advisory ballot at one point. But it's obviously not a common occurrence here. Yeah, yeah. So I guess that would be the question of whether or not the city could do a mail-out.
 questionnaire or whether it ought to be less expensive, do it through Malama County. I don't know. Just for... Well, there will be a May special election anyway because there are Portland School Board seats and Portland Community College, I believe, seats that are up for election. But the incremental cost of additional...
 parts of the ballot is charged to the governmental agency that's put the thing on the ballot so we'll pay a portion of that cost based on our portion of the paperwork. Mayor does that mean that if if we were if for example this was on a general election ballot in in in a presidential year for example with a lot of stuff on the ballot does that necessarily mean that our costs would be substantially lower? Our proportionate costs would most likely be lower. Because there's so many other items on the ballot. Right.
 Okay, so moving on, what I hear generally here is the notion, the proposal, that one thing's going to solve the problem. We need X, and we need to raise it through something. And I've heard over the course of discussion over the past year, parking fees, myself personally, the gas tax makes sense at some level for the city, but
 But to address the issue with people coming in, the commuters in the Tri-County area, maybe Metro getting involved in collecting some, assessing a tax. I like the idea of maybe some small increment on the payroll tax. Can I ask you a question on that? Yes.
 Let's say that this is referred in the May ballot, and let's say the results are inconclusive. And the mayor has said this is advisory only. Right. Is one of the options you'd want us to consider after that event perhaps some more?
 cocktail, if you will, some blend of a number that together get to the goal the mayor has established? Yes, absolutely. As you would ask. That's not, I'm not sure that's something we would test, but that might be your advice to us to look at a package. I would hope that in the coming months, you put your very talented analyst to good use
 and take a look at, and it's down the road, I understand. There's a whole spectrum of things that are going to be happening here. Marijuana tax, the rising tide lifting all the boats in property taxes. And these are always obviously, you know, funds, general fund, both general fund and gas tax. But this notion that gasoline taxes at the state level, maybe at the regional level, at TriMet level, or at the city level, give us an idea –
 on what your budget, the savings maybe in resources, materials for doing the road. Give us an idea on how much of a shortfall there actually is based on some hard analysis. And I think we'd really appreciate that. Okay. We'll have that. And come up with a cocktail, as Commissioner Fish suggested. Yep. Good. That's a good idea. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all.
 Next three are John Cronin, Teresa Kishisoto, and Jim Carlock. And they'll be followed by Roger Hull, Hiram Asmuth, and Richard Donen. Good evening. Welcome. Hi. John Cronin, Southwest Portland. Other people before me have expressed issues of trust and to me just haven't made the case. It's not that I haven't read all of this, I haven't gone to budget meetings, but we've
 in a short amount of time, from your perspective to having roads that were more or less okay, to a huge problem. And that hasn't been explained to me. I'm willing to consider any of the tax alternatives. And I'm sure this issue hasn't become as serious as it has from this council. This has taken years to get to this point. And it may be uncomfortable to talk about it, about prior commissioners, but it's obvious that this has gone on for a long time until –
 The case is made better and more specifically as to how we got here. I'm not trusting any more money in the city to fix it. Mayor, when was the last year that gas tax was increased? The federal gas tax was last increased in 1993.
 the state gas tax, I believe, was at last increased in 2009. The city gets a portion of each of those. And actually, yeah, I'll give you a copy of this audit. It's one of the things that you ought to read. But you'll see that what's happened over that time is that the city's overall transportation budget has gone up and down a bit, mostly because of things that are funded differently
 as a one-time capital project, but the general spending on maintenance and repaving. You're right, it's been a long-term decline. The council actually in 2009 made a decision that I disagreed with, which was to say we're just simply not going to maintain residential streets anymore, and passed an ordinance
 resolution 36 672 that said that this council has rescinded that ordinance and has said we're responsible as a city both residential street maintenance and arterial street maintenance albeit we are not keeping up with that responsibility so I'd encourage you I'll give you my copy I encourage you to not only read this but take a look
 Let me ask Commissioner Novick this, because often in these discussions, there's this sense that somehow Portland is exceptional. We have roads, bridges, and infrastructure throughout the country that are collapsing. Commissioner Novick, is Portland unique?
 No, Portland is not unique. I mean, the United States as a whole spends 2.3 percent of gross domestic product infrastructure. In Europe, the figure is 5 percent. In China, it's now 9 percent. And roads and bridges are deteriorating around the country. Los Angeles was about to send a measure to the ballot this fall to address their crumbling roads, concluded that they were unlikely to get the required measures.
 I think they have a two-thirds percentage, so their roads are continuing to crumble. Twenty-eight other Oregon cities have passed some sort of local fee mechanism to address the same problems. One bit of Portland-specific history that I think is worth noting is that
 Back in the 80s, the city used to devote a significant percentage of utility license fees to transportation, and the council gradually concluded, starting in the late 80s, that they would divert that into the general fund, which is used primarily for police, fire, parks, and housing, which people aren't excited about cutting.
 Yeah, that was in the past utility franchise fee was dedicated to transportation. But after the passage of Measure 5, the then city council, none of us, but then the city council said we're going to try to hold police fire parks harmless or less harmed.
 and stopped dedicating that utility franchise revenue to transportation. So that's part of what started that long-term slide. You can argue that they made a great decision or a terrible decision, but that's why they did it is that Measure 5. And Lynn reads here from the Oregonian. The Oregonian at the time, he wasn't there then either, argued that we should pass Measure 5 because that would lead to voter approval of a sales tax
 How's that working out? So, you know, we haven't done much in terms of these big-picture structural reforms, and that's why 28 other cities have passed some kind of local street utility fee in Oregon. And that's really where we started on this issue. We looked at Oregon City that had one of $11.56 a month per household and said, well, that seems like,
 rough justice to us. That's kind of where we started on this discussion. Mr. Sir, I'm not advocating one side or another, but if the gas tax, which is a primary source of revenue for roads, if that hasn't changed in over a decade, and if with all the advances in fuel efficiency, we've seen people use less gas, then that as a revenue source has become less robust.
 The commissioner in charge of the Bureau can come and say, let's add money to parking revenues. We can find all kinds of things. Council can pass a hundred resolutions as to where we're going to put a diminishing resource into what street. If we don't have the resources, we can't do the job. And so fundamentally, there is a resource question, and we can have the argument about whether we go into the general fund and make substantial changes. That's a tough conversation because most people –
 want to have a certain amount of money allocated to public safety and parks and other things. So, you know, I'm not advocating one way or another, but part of the challenge we face is outside of our control, and there just aren't the money. We can ascribe it to this or that policy decision. People can say it was a good idea or a bad idea to pursue the streetcar. It really wouldn't change the fundamentals. Right.
 The fundamentals are the primary revenue source has not kept pace with inflation, and we don't have the resources, and we're in the same boat as a lot of other cities across the country. And so we're now asking you for what ideas do you have? And there are no bad ideas, but we're asking you for what ideas you have. Not being an accountant, that seems to be what strikes me mostly is that we went from this not being discussed to it being a huge problem.
 And it strikes me that gas fund revenues, prices of gas has obviously skyrocketed in that time. So revenues to you must have gone up to some degree. Well, actually, it has been discussed. Unfortunately, we haven't gotten anywhere. I was transportation commissioner in 2001 and argued that the legislature should increase the gas tax, and they failed miserably because they didn't then. Right. Okay.
 We also attempted a local revenue measure in 2001 but were pushed back by the business community that threatened to refer it to the voters and kill it. And then Commissioner Sam Adams, in charge of transportation, in 2007 attempted a local measure, and he was also threatened by the business community or members of the business community that they would take this to the ballot and kill it. So we've actually been having this discussion in the city of Portland for 14 years.
 Now, you can blame us for having a long conversation with no results, but we have not been completely – we corporately, as a city, as a community – we have not been totally unaware of this problem. I would say we have been unwilling to face it squarely, and that's what we're trying to do now. Then my suggestion, in the spirit of being positive about this, is I would say you can't sell this often enough, and when I read articles about this, I don't see
 half a dozen bullet points that I'm sure you come up with that would attempt to sell me on this better than my shock at all of a sudden you need vast amounts of money. Does that make sense? Sure, sure. So that's my suggestion. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good evening. Hello. Excuse me. I am Teresa Casey Soto. Feliz Año Nuevo. Happy New Year.
 I am one of those people who in the past have been very disgruntled when I have heard that there have been improvements made in places other than where I live. I live in southeast Portland. I live 200 feet from the corner of southeast 125th and Powell Boulevard. And basically I had come tonight to ask that when a decision is made by the voters and I
 there's the formula out there to get the funding for maintenance of the streets and safety. I was basically here to say, please, please, please make sure that safety is right there in front of you in neon lights. In order to get from where I live to Safeway walking west, it is very, very difficult because the cars that are turning
 have to stop if they're turning into another street, and the ones behind them will not wait. So it is very frequent that all of us who walk there are threatened with death. There's also a lot of families there. You see moms pushing their strollers and holding onto strollers.
 And not too long ago, I think you know that someone was killed again right there on that corner. So basically, that's why I had come tonight. Now that I've been listening, I want to say a big thank you to all of you for taking the time to have us here tonight. I know some of us came with a different agenda than what you have, the criteria you have put forth, Mayor Hales. I also want to thank Commissioner Novick for being very brave.
 and taking this on, the whole transportation issue. And I'm also talking about transportation as it relates to other needs that we have in southeast Portland. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz.
 because she has been an advocate of those of us who ride the bus. I am with Opal Bus Riders Unite. I'm also with East Portland Action Plan. I'm going to close by saying keep on letting us know what's going on. I really appreciate having been invited to one of the meetings that Commissioner Novick had. I was representing several communities.
 constituencies i guess you could call it and i really appreciate that and i am very well aware of the fact that people do not trust city hall so anything you can do to bring back that trust will be greatly appreciated and of course i would like for you to always remember that southeast portland deserves the rest of what the
 It serves the same as what the rest of the city gets. And I thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for your advocacy. And I appreciate you pointing the safety issue out. As the police commissioner, I get, unfortunately, reports about things that go terribly every night. And in the last two years, we've killed twice as many of our fellow citizens with cars as we have with guns or knives. Yes.
 35 traffic deaths in 2013, and I think roughly 40 in 2014, and quite a few on Powell. So I appreciate you raising that. 2013, I believe there were eight people in southeast Portland killed out of 13. Eight deaths were in southeast Portland. Thank you for acknowledging that. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Jim Carlock, and it's been a long time since I've been down here, but this is worth it.
 So I'm going to save you a lot of money writing ballot initiatives. I'll write them for you. Number one, shall we have a tax for streets? Yes or no. Number two, shall we require those who do the most road damage pay in proportion to their damage? And, of course, I'm referring to TriMet, which does the most damage, and large trucks. You notice not on this list is cars, bicycles, pedestrians.
 because they do virtually no damage to the roads. And as to funding, measure number three, should Portland quit wasting street money on street cars that are slower than walking and on light rail that moves less people per dollar than cars and reallocate that money to streets? Should Portland, measure number four, should Portland quit installing speed bumps that kill people by delaying emergency services?
 Quit adding bubble curves that put pedestrians closer to fast-moving traffic quit building bike lanes that remove road capacity quit building bike boulevard that essentially steal streets for bikes and take the money to Apply to street repair should Portland quit wasting money on things like oh a hundred pages of street excuse me of tree rules and
 It really takes a 100-page document to tell somebody that they shouldn't cut down a 100-year-old elm tree? Give me a break. Stop giving $100 million in property tax money to crony developers via the Portland Development Commission? I looked it up this afternoon. There's $107 million in property taxes that are actually collected in the PDC district that goes to the PDC that, in essence,
 pays for a bureaucracy, and buying favors for rich developers to give you guys campaign donations to keep up, I believe it's called the Iron Triangle if you look it up in Wikipedia. It's endemic in government. Measure number six.
 Should we stop giving exemptions from paying property taxes to favorite developers? Should we stop selling land to favorite developers at below market and give the money to repair the streets? Should we shut down useless city agencies such as sustainability, climate change, biofuels, and the PTC and apply the saved money to street repair?
 Of course, this requires that you actually run the city for the people instead of for some of your cronies. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Next three. Are Roger Hull, Hiram Asmuth, and Richard Donen. They'll be followed by Richard Essie. I believe the first name is Lin Fung, and Michael O'Callaghan. Good evening. Go ahead. Good evening. I'm Richard Donen. I've been down here before.
 And actually, I've been down here more than when I worked for Commissioner Lindbergh doing an energy consultant doing solar setback rules for the city, which was a lot of fun, actually. I'm here with something positive. I'd like to see, because I have a one-track mind, obviously, as you've heard from me before, that there is a parking fee.
 Similar to, but not exactly like, the city of Chicago and lots of other cities.
 I recently spoke with a PBOT person last week about the parking sticker fee program I suggested, and I was amazed to hear all the incorrect assumptions that were being made, including one from the city attorney's office that it wouldn't work because it had to be affixed to vehicle registration, and it never did, actually. The proposal I sent out had nothing to do with vehicle registration. Okay.
 I love this city. I live here for a specific reason because it's the best city that I've visited, lots of them in the U.S. And I've known this city from working with commissioners to be one that looks for making things work rather than finding excuses why they don't work. So I haven't heard putting on the ballot as a positive thing.
 measure a parking sticker fee. It's simple to maintain. The city already does have a small department in transportation that issues these stickers for various parts of the city. The cost to do it would be very, very small. It could be done with existing folks. Mr. Chair, I earlier asked,
 thomas lanham that question because i read a piece also recently about you know having requiring everyone that brings their car downtown to have a sticker and i think we probably have to put out a document that explains the advice that we've been given but the the answer that i got was that a um a sticker that you have to buy to put on your car to be able to come down you know to park
 is construed as like a vehicle registration fee. And the current law is that we are preempted from doing a... And, Steve, you'll tell me if I'm wrong, but we're preempted from doing a vehicle registration fee. Yeah, I understand. Only the county can do it. So there's...
 There's a legal bind. It's an elegant solution in my mind, and I appreciate you putting it on the table, but we've been told that we don't have the authority to do it. Now, I think it would be useful if we put something in writing and put it on the website so people could read it and say whether they think that's bunk or makes sense. Or even get a formal opinion from the state. Get a formal opinion, but the point is very well taken. Just I want you to understand, we've been told that,
 Legally, we can't do that, but let's take the time to explore that. Yes, because I researched ORS statutes. Yes.
 And cities, municipalities have the ability to impose parking fees, as in when you park downtown or anywhere there's a meter that you have to put the money in so you don't get a parking ticket because the ticket's way more than the 75 cents it costs to park. It would run on that exact same – it would piggyback on the existing program that you already use to –
 you know, keep traffic moving, and, you know, I understand from the business point of view, you want a turnover out there. So, sir, you've taken the time to come and give us a thoughtful suggestion, and Commissioner Novick, could we ask that we just get something in writing that explains whether we can or can't do that and why? Absolutely. Yeah, particularly since, and he's right, particularly since we already not only have
 regulated parking where there are meters, but we have the sticker program in different parts of the city like the central east side where people who live or work in that district have to have a sticker. So we kind of have crossed that line in one way. Now, we may be told there's a difference between that and a general program. We'll want to hear what, but you're right that we ought to ask the question straight up. I would like to see that on the ballot. Absolutely.
 And I figured roughly a $25 once a year, which is about $2 a month, sticker fee that Goat put on the stickers would also...
 end up getting people who come in from Vancouver that want to park. And I'm not talking just about downtown, because I talked with the county, and they actually have meter readers out in various areas. Hawthorne Boulevard is actually patrolled. They also patrol Powell Boulevard and several other ones. So...
 We're not just talking about Central City. We're talking about the entire city in terms of where businesses are located, which is where people really want to go. I'm not talking about going into people's garages or their residential neighborhoods to say, hey, you can't park on the street in front of your house. Again, let me just say thank you for framing the issue, and I think it's really important
 It would be good for us to get something in writing and share from you and see whether you agree with it, get the city attorney to give us an opinion. And I would be happy to come in and talk with the PBOT folks. Check with the county and let's not leave this up in the air. You've raised an idea. Let's make sure that either we can or can't do it. It also gets, Mr. Sargent testified earlier, I don't know if you heard him, but the goal of getting non-residents to,
 contribute based on the fact that they use the streets too. It obviously is one of the few revenue mechanisms that gets at that problem. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. We will get the legal analysis of what is our window, what does it look like, do we have one at all? And where the wiggle room is in that, I mean, I know. Yeah. That's how you ask the question. There's holes in the legalese. Gosh, I mean.
 If the city attorney says, well, it sounds crazy, but it just might work, we wouldn't want to pass something and then have two years of litigation and then find out that we lost. I'd want to be pretty sure that it's something we could do. And the city attorney said so far they're pretty sure it's something we can't. Well, let's get a good, solid look at it. Right. It's used in other cities. And it's used here. Yeah. Thank you. Good. Thank you very much.
 Good evening. My name is Tyra Masmyth. I reside in northeast Portland. The big issue, again, with me, it's a resounding theme that you've heard tonight, and it's
 I have a difficult problem trusting you on two different levels. One is implementation, and the other is intent of this fee. You know, the implementation side, I mean, three minutes is not nearly enough. But, I mean, just to give a very stark example, Mr. McCullough did an in-depth research on the numbers provided him that he paid, you know, a couple thousand dollars for, by the way. And he found thousands of businesses are miscategorized
 or somehow mischarged.
 There's major issues with that in that you would have a lot of legal challenges, which would inevitably cost the city more money in legal fees. You would have a lot of funds not getting paid. There's a $500 charge that supposedly is the charge. So I think that's another thing that would occasionally happen is some businesses that shouldn't be paying would get the $500 charge from the city that they may or may not pay, by the way, because they were miscategorized. If you're trying to charge somebody...
 $240, then it seems almost like blackmail in saying, well, you know, we're going to charge you $500 if you don't pay the $240, even if you're miscategorized. And if you want to challenge the miscategorization, you're going to have to go through a legal process or some sort of form that you're obviously going to have to spend a few thousand dollars to create. And that's just one of many implementation problems I see with this, you know. Can I ask you a question? Yeah. I get the trust part, but it doesn't help us.
 get to a solution and you're going to lose your time soon and i don't want you to miss a chance to tell us what if we did a referral what would you like to see on it well i i think i think the solution um you know i'm more of the none of the above type but i do really like uh you know his idea of the parking sticker that's one of the very few ideas um that i could you know possibly look at and and support but um just in general i you know to be honest with you i i
 you know, it's hard for us as citizens to, like, take time to really research these suggestions that you're bringing to us. This is your job to research these suggestions and have them set in stone and not have thousands of errors on a single document. And so if you're going to refer these three other options, you know, that have glaring holes that we've told you multiple times, we don't like any of these three options. None of the above is perfectly, you know, a
 a good summary you know but i want to get to intent real fast too though you know uh charlie i i read something recently um i forgot what it was but um it was about 82nd you know 82nd is 213 highway it's managed by odot and apparently you're trying to um you know take that from odot and put it in the city and i'm wondering you know so you
 You keep saying that we need X amount of money and that we don't have enough right now. Why are you asking for more responsibility and for more of a financial burden when, in fact, we don't have the funds right there to take care of what we can? Could you just answer that for us? Sure. No, I'd be happy to explain that. And then, again, I'll give you another minute or a little bit of a minute anyway. If you were convinced that the money needed to be raised and if you were convinced that
 that we needed to raise, as the auditor and the department have said, somewhere north of $75 million a year. Let's say we're going to try for 50, hoping that the legislature does their job.
 Yeah. Where would you like that to come from? And maybe it's the sticker. But, I mean, now and soon we need those ideas. The reason that we've raised the issue of Powell Boulevard and 82nd and other state highways in the city is that there are all kinds of inefficiencies and problems created for neighborhoods by the fact that we've got these so-called orphan highways in the city. And the proposition that we want to advance with the state is –
 We're not going to take it in its current condition, but in the long run, that ought to be a city street. It looks like a duck. It walks like a duck. People think of it as a neighborhood arterial. But first, ODOT, you need to put that thing into good condition and then deed it over to the city. That's already happened in some cases. Market Street downtown used to be a state highway. Yeah. Parts of Sandy Boulevard have been converted from state highway to city street.
 So this is an ongoing discussion with ODOT. It's frankly been largely frozen because the state hasn't had the money to put Powell Boulevard in good repair. They need to spend about $50 million on Powell alone.
 and we haven't had the money to maintain it. Gotcha. But on the assumption that we're going to have some more maintenance money and that they're going to have the money to put these roads in a good condition, I believe that we ought to continue that transition of having the state run the highway system, I-5, I-84, I-205, and the city take care of the arterial streets, regardless of what label has been on them for the last 100 years. That's the theory. Okay.
 So, again, don't have to finish this conversation. By the way, the same principle applies to the larger question of who maintains the bridges. Right. And one thing I have learned as the person who does most of the laundry in my family and goes to the laundromat and does most of the grocery store shopping and goes to Fred Meyer, is that the person who comes up to me because they may recognize me or think that I'm in government very rarely cares which level of government I'm from. They have a concern.
 And it seems kind of odd that on streets you'd have to like first get a lawyer to tell you whether it's federal, state, city, county, and then blah, blah, blah. I think most people would like to know that someone is handling it. So it may be a good idea or a bad idea, but it's been taken up in the past around one entity managing the bridges, some better coordination on the streets. The mayor is a pretty good negotiator.
 He's not going to take on a street with a liability. So I think you could give him the credit for that, whether it's a good idea to take it on or not. We couldn't do any worse than ODOT on a couple of these roads. The mayor, I guess, thinks that if we had it in our fold with the resources, that we could then bring them up to the safety standards that we're hearing from the community. Thank you.
 But that's not – I hope you don't see that as a trust or intent issue. That may be just a good government issue, and as long as the funding is there, I think we could probably persuade you that we shouldn't have multiple players doing – providing a basic service. Well, not to go too far afield, there's been a huge hue and cry raised from neighborhoods along those streets saying we want to have the ability to plan this street as a main street for our neighborhood, and the State Highway Department treats it like a state highway. And so we've actually had a lot of pressure from citizens in those neighborhoods –
 to do this, but I'm not going to do it until we've got the road in good condition. We just, that's not financially responsible. Yeah, it would be cart before horse. You know, it's just that I've been here since 98, and, you know, I bike around Portland and I drive around Portland all over the time because I do a lot of political door knocking, and I know all of these neighborhoods. And it's...
 What I constantly see is I just see, like, inefficient things happening. You know, I mean, I'll see, like, there will be bumps on a street, you know, one year, and then...
 two years down, no bumps, like they took them out, and then bumps again like two years later, and it's confusing to me. And then you'll be driving down these streets that are fine, but you don't see them needing paving, and then they'll get paved. And then meanwhile, East Portland, like this lady came up as an advocate, I mean, East Portland is in disarray and has been for decades. It's very lunar, some areas in East Portland, and I think
 Why can't we prioritize? Why can't we be more prudent with the resources we have? And here's my take on it. If you guys can give us an exact number that isn't based on, you know,
 on inconsistencies, that's not based on taking on roads that we don't have right now. If you can give us something more concrete, then maybe it would be a little bit easier to trust you on needing the money. But it's really hard to trust you on that when there's so much inefficiency across the board, and not just in this bureau, but in many others. And basically you're asking us for money. It's a dangerous precedent. It's a really dangerous precedent. If you're going to come to your citizens and say, you know, because these
 Past city councils over the past, you know, 14 years have overlooked some things. We're going to have you guys take it on, you guys as in us, the citizens, take on the burden. I mean, this is a government job. The government is supposed to take on the government burdens and the government mistakes of the past. In order to establish that trust, you have to establish the need. And also, like, you have to really entertain, you know,
 The idea is that people are more agreeing with, and I think it's disingenuous to put these three options that you have been told by numerous people time and again. These are all terrible options, and we've basically line item explained to you point by point why they're bad options. So if you're going to put some options on the ballot, at least make them legitimate and at least put them to a vote if necessary.
 If, in fact, you have one or two or three of these things coming through with any kind of favorable response, because the voters at the very least, we deserve to, you know, have our voice heard on how we're going to be paying our fees when it's an extra one and not just have three people decide, you know, for nine hundred thousand. Anyways, that's what I take.
 I appreciate that. And, again, I want to encourage you, as others here that are interested in the question of can you trust us to spend your money, to look at the budget and the budget process. And, by the way, Commissioner Novick didn't say no one came to budget hearings. He said few people came to budget hearings to urge cuts. We had 300 people in David Douglas High School auditorium at a budget hearing last fall. So we have a robust public participation process in the budget process, and I encourage you and anybody else that's interested in how we spend your money to
 to participate in that. And frankly, as the city's budgeter-in-chief, because one of my responsibilities as mayor is to propose the budget, I take that very seriously. And if you come to my office any time between January and April, you'll see a pile of budgets on our conference room table because there's a lot to it.
 That's not to try to wave you off and say you're not going to be able to read all that. I'm saying there's just a lot to it. I'm very proud of the budgets that this council has approved in the two years that I've been here. The first year we cut $21 million out of the general fund budget because we had to, and that was hard, and we did it, I think, well. And then since then we've done – we had a little bit of extra revenue, and we used most of it to pay off old debt.
 So I'm proud of the way that we've spent money. I got in trouble with one of the local news media because I said I'd dare anybody to show up on my front door. I'm sorry, I'd dare anybody to find $10 in my proposed budget that's misallocated, that isn't following the law or good budget policy, and I'll show up on their front porch with a TV camera and $100. So, you know, that offer still stands because I take that responsibility seriously to propose a balanced and legal and proper budget. But...
 that's my opinion of my budget your opinion of my proposed budget is also completely admissible and when i put it on the table in about six weeks i hope you look at it absolutely yeah i'll do that thank you mr mayor if i might i actually found the email that the city attorney sent to me about the idea of a vehicle sticker and what he said is that
 We are prohibited from imposing vehicle registration fees and ORS 801.410 defines registration as the recording of a vehicle as authorized for use within a jurisdiction.
 so that was why he felt that if we said that um any vehicle that is used in portland has to get the sticker he thinks that that would be considered a registration fee so i just wanted to know if that closes the discussion but i had it so i thought i'd yeah let's take a break we'll take a fresh let's take a fresh look at it because because the question is we do this now in districts not citywide right so you know let's think about it good evening just excuse me just before you move on
 We had over 100 people in our budget, in our parks budget meeting last night. It's not just transportation that doesn't have enough money. We passed the parks bond, which I'm very grateful to the voters for providing $68 million. That's $68 million out of $365 million that we need over the next 10 years for parks. So it's...
 We have citizens in every single bureau who dive into the budgets and try to help us find revenue and fund the services that the citizens of Portland want and need. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. Thanks for the opportunity to talk to you. Could you move just a little closer so we can have the benefit of your testimony? I need a longer neck to do that. Actually, if you move the whole thing closer to you, it moves. There you go. Thank you.
 My name's Roger Hall, and I live in northeast Portland. You put some fences around what I can talk about that I wasn't expecting, but fortunately Commissioner Novick tore down the fence because he said he hasn't heard anything about property taxes, and so I'm going to talk about that. Go for it. But first off, I want to tell you about when I was young. When I was young...
 I used to read about old people being taxed out of their homes, and now I'm an old people, and I'm feeling it, and I'm seeing it all around me. And I brought my wife and I moved here. She's that pretty lady in the Norwegian hat back there. Cute hat, isn't it? Anyway, here's my tax for 10 years ago, and my property tax was $3,025. Here's my tax for last year and this year. Last year it was $4,300.
 And I was reading the paper where things were going to go about 9%. The difference between 3,000 and 43 is about 40% over 10 years. Not bad, I guess. And my tax is this year $58.50 from 43 to 58.50. That's 30% in one year. So I read the piece of paper here, and it says, you want to appeal? Well, sure you can for two reasons.
 You don't agree with the value of the house, or you're protesting a late filing. I paid the entire amount up early to get that little amount off. But then I called, and it also says if you want to appeal, there's a $30 filing fee. Everything costs. Cost, cost, cost. And where's the money come from? Ten years ago, I could get five big, beautiful apples for a dollar.
 Now I can get one. So anyway, I called, and the lady I spoke to, I don't know who she was, she said, when I told her, mine went up 30%, and it was supposed to be 9% on average. What happened? And she's talked to some fascinating stuff about compression and decompression and compression.
 And I was a Navy diver. I know about decompression. But her decompression, I could not figure out for the life of me. Finally, I just said, thank you very much. I've already sent my money, and I'll go bleed in the corner on my own. And that's where my wife and I are at. We're watching our neighbors get a foreclosure right across the street going on. Sir, without giving us your address, what quadrant of the city do you live in?
 How about two blocks north of Gleason and one block east of H2? Corner house, beautiful house, yellow house, white picket fence. Can't miss it. So anyway, now to be fair with the mayor, what do I support? Well, I'm kind of not much of anything, but if I have to support one, it's gas tax.
 But gas tax has to catch those people that live out there on the outside or right close to the border where they can just drive across two blocks to the gas station there and beat it. Am I out of time already? We'll give you a little more. Keep going. Anyway. By the way, that's one of the challenges, sir, with the gas tax. We had the lobbyists for the industry here at one of our hearings explaining that, you know, reminding us that our jurisdiction only covers the city.
 And if the price is not competitive with other parts of the region, then what we'll be doing is just encouraging people to drive farther to get a better price outside the city, and that's one of the market dynamics and problems. Well, I'm just saying if they work in town and their paycheck is paid by somebody in town, and I assume there's some way of knowing that, then they should have some kind of opportunity
 fee that somehow they should contribute because they're wearing out the roads. And also the buses and the rail, they need to somehow be assessed. Maybe the prices of the tickets have to go up a little bit, whatever. But those people, they're riding the roads too. They just happen to be railroads or buses on the streets. Yes.
 And then I'm really bothered by, I know it's a bad thing to bring up, but it's called PERS retirement. The arts tax, we paid it, and then we found out that we don't owe that.
 And they don't pay it. Well, and I'm a retiree who doesn't owe it either, but I paid it anyhow. You can't get it back once you pay it. I found that out. So anyway. Sir, I have some good news for you. There's a guy right there who can help you. Mr. Lanham, who administers the program, is going to give you that money back. You are already $35 in the – and if –
 I don't want it bad. All the nice things you said about your bride. That's my point. I hope you take her out for a nice dinner on the $35. My point is I enjoy the arts, what that provides, and so do the PERS retirees. Whatever we do, you can't use an income tax.
 Because if you do, then they're fenced. That's the problem with that. They can't be fenced. I can't be fenced. Nobody who uses these facilities can be fenced, and it's up to you, not me. Don't ask me how to do that. That's your job. Figure out how every person who benefits from whatever it is pays for whatever it is. But now, back to my original point, I agree with the people who said you've got to
 A bottoms-up review. You've got to do what's necessary. I bled when I read about the director of sewers going out here with a quarter million dollars. I fired a fair number of people in my life, and I didn't give them anything. Thank you. Appreciate it. Appreciate you coming tonight. Appreciate that. And, yeah, talk to Mr. Lanham because if you're a PERS retiree, you might have a problem. I don't want the money back. I want everybody to pay. That's fair. No, we appreciate that point. That is a problem with an income tax approach. So thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your donation for the ARCS tax. I know that a number of PERS employees also do pay for the, on a voluntary basis. Thank you. Okay. Next three people, please. Richard Essie. I believe it's Lynn Fung and Michael O'Callaghan. Come on up. What about Laura Jackson and you? Oh, wait, hold on. Okay. I think you've got those three. Okay.
 Good evening. Who would like to go first? I was the last one. Go ahead. Okay. First of all, I want to congratulate you for this political process. Okay. Give us your name. Michael O'Callaghan and I live in southeast Portland. I appreciate that this political process has been very complex, but I appreciate that people are being listened to and you're asking for ideas.
 First of all, I want to focus on authority, air pollution authority. This is my significant concern, although I realize streets are a concern. I want to apply the KISS principle, keep it simple, stupid. Gas tax is simple. I can support that. I want to kill three birds with one stone. No.
 I want to clean up our air. I want to eliminate freeway rush hour traffic, and I want to maintain our streets. How are we going to do this? Okay. What we do is, first of all, you define rush hour traffic as, say, 7.15 to 8.30 a.m. and 4.15 to 6 p.m., although all the cars on the freeway.
 If you are on the freeway in a vehicle more than three times a month, you're assessed a clean air fee of approximately $30 a month. Now, 16% of the traffic on the road is trucks. Trucks loaded weigh 40 times as much as a car.
 That's why all your bridges are designed the way they are. That's basically why the roads need to be maintained. Now, these trucks need to pay a fee of going in rush hour traffic. X amount, you guys can figure out what it is, per thousand pounds. Okay, now the revenue off of this, okay? Half of it goes to street maintenance, and I want half of it to go to pollution-free, pollution-reduction transportation systems.
 i.e. a free bus. Okay? So people that don't want to use the freeways have a transportation system that moves them quickly and efficiently. Okay?
 Also, we would build safety corridors in what I call non-polluting transport roads. Now, all these kids walking to school, it's very unsafe to walk to school, as you pointed out, Merrill. A lot of people have been killed on the roads. Cars are very dangerous things. I personally, being a bicycle rider, don't like cars. They hurt me.
 They're dangerous. They pollute the air that I breathed that was clean. I didn't give them the right to pollute that air. I want my air cleaner, and this would do that. And politically, it could be enlarged to all of Metro. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good evening. Hi. My name is Laura Jackson. I live in southeast Portland, roughly 45th and Division.
 I will do what I was told to do, which is tell you guys what I think should be proposed taxes. I support a gas tax, and I was not aware of this issue that we can't tag on to, for example, Multnomah County's registration fee. But I would support a gas tax paralleled or coupled with a registration fee, primarily so that cars like Priuses and electric cars that don't pay a gas tax still put money into the system. Could you hold that thought for a second? Because you just said we can't.
 We couldn't tag on to the Multnomah County. And I'm not – I didn't say tag on to – do something like what Multnomah County did. Yeah. But that raises – but you're raising another interesting point, which is could we, by intergovernmental agreement, do something with Multnomah County where they are, in effect, are the party that generates the revenue and we have some agreement as to how it's expended? Well, at the risk of something or other, I think if Multnomah County –
 wanted to raise the vehicle registration fee a lot more, they might have paid off all of the Selwood Bridge instead of asking us to pay Brady Million of it. But it's a question of can they do that? Fair enough. You said we can't do it, but if someone else can and we have a relationship with them, that may be another way. So in my fantasy world of what I would be willing to support in this sort of thing would be some sort of gas tax coupled with a registration fee for the vehicles that do not buy
 fuel. I feel like there's enough people that come in from Vancouver, that come in from the other counties, that occasionally at least would be buying gas there. Plus people like me who do most of my driving, at least my discretionary driving, happens to be in Washington State visiting elderly parents. I buy a lot of my gas in Washington State just because that's where the miles are occurring on my car and that is where I am putting the mileage on the roads.
 I don't mind this concept of the recommendation vote, but I think whatever is come up with either out of that or I'm guessing it's going to be your tax cocktail, as you were talking about, some combination of this, that, and the other thing to make the money that we need, that has got to go to the voters. Okay.
 And part of the issue of trust, people have talked about again. One of my big issues with trust, I was a transportation planner for about 25 years up in King County mostly. And we had a huge thing with pavement maintenance. And one of the big things that pretty much every jurisdiction up there did was say, okay, we're going to get our water bureau, our sewer, our electric, our gas.
 Everybody's going to be on the same page. So we don't have Clinton Street or Lincoln Street, where the street gets paved by the transportation department. And then two years later, sewer comes in and digs up a whole bunch of it. I walk on Lincoln and I run on Clinton or bike on Clinton pretty much every day. And it's just appalling to me all the great work that got done on there in the past four or five years for paving that's being torn up.
 So that's kind of what, you know, it's a quid pro quo. I'm willing to give you guys money to do this, but you've got to give me something back, and part of that is the trust that there's going to be coordination between the bureaus, coordination with private utilities so that this beautiful new division pavement we've got doesn't have the gas company coming in in two weeks to dig it all up for one of the new apartment buildings. Or if they do, that they have to bring it back, not just their little trench, but the full pavement section to quality pavement.
 The final thing I want to say is the way this thing is structured right now between the residential and the non-residential fees, Mr. McCullough pointed it out really well, is a lot of these businesses are one-man, sole proprietor, home-based businesses.
 And we were looking at my husband's an engineering consultant. Charlie knows him. We were looking at a fee of $216 a year. Not anymore, though. Well, that was the business fee that was lined up for our house, our business fee. That's twice what Stumptown Coffee Roasters was shown as. Okay. And we would be paying an income tax fee on top of that. That's double taxation for one person, one income based out of his home who has virtually no transportation impact. Okay.
 I sent you guys all a letter today. That was so good. I encourage you to read it. Let me ask you a follow-up question there, Laurie, and that is, assuming
 But let's set aside. You're right. We've got to make sure that businesses are classified correctly and that big ones pay a big amount and small ones pay a small amount. And that's the question that Mr. McAuliffe has raised, which is do we have that methodology right? Fair question. We've got to get it right. No argument there. But the general principle that we've been operating on is that business ought to pay about half the cost of this maintenance effort, and residents ought to pay about half as well. Do you think that's a?
 A rough justice? I think it's fair if you take home-based sole proprietorships out of the equation. When I look around my neighborhood, just our block face, and I know what people do.
 We have a retired accountant who does taxes for his friends, who has a business license so that he can take tax deductions. We have an award-winning graphic novel writer, who again is shown as a five-person recreational business. We have two retired nuns who live in a house owned by their church who were shown as a business. My husband's an engineering consultant who primarily works in Washington State.
 You know, we're residents, and our businesses do not impact the transportation system any more than the average Joe homeowner. So don't tax us twice. And I think that's a fair point, particularly because during the recession, we saw a lot of people who were displaced went and got business licenses and became sole proprietors, worked out of their home. Which is what we did. The other thing is I just want to comment that I think you made Steve's night with something you said earlier. And since he's so modest, I'll brag on him.
 He and Director Treat have already started, put into place, a program that is very innovative, which would actually address a concern you raised earlier, which is to have government and the private utilities and others have a single database of projects so that we don't dig up, pave, dig up, pave.
 And in fact, because Commissioner Novick has transportation and I have water, sewer storm water, where the where that those are the three major utility bureaus, if this thing works out and it's a big if.
 It will precisely address the issue you have. I mean, to me, that's the give. We give you money, but you've got to show us that you're actually spending it. Right, but we have to get our friends in the private sector to agree to fully participate, but we get it. And to Steve's credit and to Leah's credit, they've been leading the effort on that.
 That was actually Leah saw that idea implemented in Chicago, and right now we're doing a review to see how these different entities can talk to each other and how we can set up a software system like that. I do want to say on the home-based businesses that based on the amendments we did the other week, home-based businesses with less than $50,000 in annual revenues are completely exempt from the fee.
 And I want you to know that I actually printed out your email and gave it to Commissioner Novick because I thought it was so helpful to me, somebody who hasn't been into the details of all the businesses. I just felt the way that you wrote it and your testimony tonight has been very helpful. Thank you. $50,000 is exempt, and we also have a business owner's compensation deduction of $100,000, and we hope to get it to $125,000. So points well taken. Yeah, thank you very much. Good evening. Mayor? Mayor?
 commissioners my name is richard essie and uh i live uh out on east burnside in the ella heights district i'm a native i've been around here for a little while i've seen bad streets for a long time they're really extremely you guys are really dead on saying that this is really a complicated issue the damage to the streets i think have a lot to do with quality of workmanship
 i.e., the sewer issue came through a number of years ago. One contractor put in a little bit, and that street is still perfect. That part of the street that I live on is perfect. Down the rest of the strip where another contractor came in and did the patch, it's all falling apart, and it's a pothole city. It's an issue. Is there a way of addressing quality control? In the future. I mean, that's down the road. The quality control will pay off down the road.
 I was motivated to come here because I was concerned about regressive taxes. An example is the arts tax. It's a flat fee. It's a person on a minimum income. They feel it. It could be their pills for the month. The guy with the bucks, his accountant doesn't even mention it to him.
 He doesn't feel it at all. So that's what I mean about. And then there are regressive taxes that are erratic, i.e., the sales tax. So it makes it really complicated, as you guys were saying. But I think that you need something that's stable, a tax on gas. That's also erratic. You've seen the numbers. As prices go up and down, the
 The consumer uses less and it is not a stable tax. A payroll tax, that's got a problem because the guys will just move their corporate offices outside of the city. The guys who are paying big enough to make it worth their while, you'll lose a lot of people that way. I think that a sales tax makes no sense because it's going to hurt the small businessman in town with his little gas station and he's working on cars. But...
 property tax increase. It's painful, but I think that's the logical approach in terms of consistency. It's a regular, something you can count on on a regular basis. It's painful. I don't mind paying taxes if I get service. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks a lot. Thank you all. Take the next group, please. I believe the last person is you, Faye?
 Okay. Is there anyone else that didn't sign up that wants to speak? Come on up. Please. Go ahead. You, go ahead. Please. Welcome. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners. And Happy New Year. Happy New Year to you. Thank you. My name is Yu-Tae. I am an owner of Mac PCX in Hollywood. We provide computer training support. I'm also the president, the newly elected president of the Hollywood Boosters Association.
 Business Association. And by the way, Mayor, your office had contacted us for you to come on for February for luncheon. So thank you. Yes, good. Thank you.
 And I'm also on the board of Venture Portland, which is being shepherded by Commissioner Fish. And so I think that there's a strategy here for being the last person. I get to hear all these different proposals that people have made. And then that...
 us to come up with even new ideas. Before, I had thought of a few different ideas, but I think I'm going to just go to two ideas that I'd like to run by you. This thing about the progressive income tax, I think it would be the less impact on people with fixed income. I think that's a major concern that we all have.
 And I think that there's a concern that if you do that, you're going to drive out business. Being a business owner, I know, I understand that. And I don't have the support from my members to make this proposal. But I think that if this is coupled with a proposal to say for Metro to take over, or not Metro, TriMet, or is this TriMet, Parf, Metro, but for a regional solution then to the transportation problem. Because what I've heard also was that,
 This is a tri-county problem. This is not just a Portland problem because we have people that are working out of our city, out of our county, and coming in and using the services. And so that's an important point, I think, that it needs whatever solution it needs to capture, it needs to solve that problem. And so having a regional tri-county solution, then if you have income tax, it's not where are the business going to move to?
 They can't move out. They're going to move out of Portland. They're going to end up in, what, Washington? So an alternative solution, and it might be something that is in addition, as well as a look at a neighborhood-by-neighborhood or district-by-district or quadrant-by-quadrant solution, and that's to let –
 a more... So maybe the concept would be to, like, say have a referendum or have a vote on an office or a procedure for neighbors or neighborhoods or business districts to improve their own roads and have more control over it. And so there's a little bit of upfront spending to make that happen. And then the neighborhoods can decide for themselves whether to tax themselves or
 and to improve their roads. And I think the businesses that have terrible roads, they could make a push to raise the revenue to improve their roads. And I think that for the neighbors that don't, and if the roads aren't improved but they're seen and okay because they have local traffic, I think –
 That could be a win-win for all parts of the city. And I think I'd like to leave with just maybe a general comment that I really like that last comment from the gentleman about quality control. And is there a – maybe it's time for, if there isn't, for a quality control department that's cross-department. And –
 And I think that going back, circling back to the neighborhood idea, and maybe if there's a look, if there's more of a strategic look at not just solving the transportation problem to make it easier for cars to drive through, but to look at it more comprehensively, like how...
 How do you go beyond just encouraging people to ride TriMet or using their bicycle to get from point A to point B, but looking at more specifically, how do you get people to spend most of their time traveling within a two-mile zone? Not a 20-minute, which is too...
 If you use technology, you could be like 60 miles with advancement of technology. We could be able to commute from Portland to Seattle using the new tunnel within 20 minutes. But if it's a local base, geographic base, how do you get people to spend most of their time, 80% of their time in travel and commute within a two-mile zone, and within one-mile radius of where they live or where they work?
 then maybe some of this transportation problem will be solved as well. And couple that with the local neighborhood-based initiative whether or not for them to improve their own streets. Good. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening.
 Welcome. Who's on first? I'll go. Hi, my name is Matt Hayes. I live in southeast Portland. I just have a quick question to start because I'm a little confused. What's the criteria for deciding which option to choose after the vote? Is it whichever gets the most votes, or is there something in place? I think that's the basic idea. But obviously we want to send things out that we have the authority to adopt that would raise enough revenue to make a difference. Okay.
 and that can be explained to the public. So those are my criteria anyway. Could you state your question again? It's getting late, and I didn't... Sorry. I'll make sure I understood it. So what I was asking is, what's the criteria for deciding which option to choose after the vote? So you send the vote out, it comes back with the percentages. How do you choose which one? Each of us could give you a different answer on this. If this goes forward, it is an advisory vote. Mm-hmm.
 which means each of us will give it the weight that we think is appropriate. And the harder question is what happens if none of the options come in with majority support? That was the issue I was wondering about, because if there's no minimum threshold, then you mentioned earlier if someone doesn't like it, any of these, they can just vote no for all of them. But if there's no minimum threshold –
 That option doesn't really mean anything. That's why the mayor emphasized that it would be an advisory vote. Yeah, exactly. So that was just something I wanted to clarify before I made my suggestion. My suggestion would be to replace an existing residential tax or fee or a set of them with the street fee in a revenue-neutral manner. That would be my suggestion. And then a specific that doesn't really address the issue of...
 What mechanism I would want for the street funds so I guess to make it pretty simple it would be feed based on road wear and I'll refer that to the review process for how to come up with that You've come up with a few ideas of how to do that and I'm trying to work through I don't not gonna sit up here and just criticize I because I don't have anything better at the moment but
 The next time there's a review process, I hope to have something. Good. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good evening. I think you get the last word. My name is Paul Morseri. I live at 16th and Ash in Southeast. And let me start with a point that was just brought up by a few of the last speakers on the subcontractors and the repair of the streets. Like in the Buckman neighborhood, the sewers were just redone. It's a patchwork. Some of the work they did was good, but mostly they ruined the streets.
 They didn't fix them properly, and now they're gone and we're stuck with the bill. Sir, because that's a joint enterprise between the Bureau of Environmental Services and the Portland Bureau of Transportation,
 After the hearing, would you give me some examples, just the address, of what you believe to be substandard, and I'll take a look at it? Oh, I'd be happy to give you a tour of the neighborhood. By the way, I don't want to bore you with my pity party for one, but there are some neighborhoods which would prefer that we not do long stretches and tear up the road. So we sometimes do section by section to accommodate neighbors and businesses. Okay.
 and it probably does create more inconsistencies than if we did them together. There's probably an argument for trying to do them all at once. There is a disruption factor, an impact. I'm not here to be argumentative, but if there's substandard work, I'd like to know about it, because for the last year I've had the honor of being in charge of BES. So I'd like to take a look at that work. Good.
 And other issues I have are futuristic issues like our gas tax. I mean, the technology is changing. I mean, Toyota is about to come out with a hydrogen fuel prototype. They've got over 6,000 patents. They're willing to share them with other corporations free to develop the infrastructure. So, I mean, the fuel system is going to change rapidly here.
 Other issues like what damage are studded tires doing to our streets? Are they really necessary in a city such as Portland that gets little snow? That's a question that we actually have raised, and in fact it adopted our legislative program for the state legislature earlier today, and this city council was unanimously of the opinion that we ought to have less use of studded tires and more local regulation of them.
 So we're in your camp on that issue. Up to now, it's been a state issue, and we've had no say over that. We're angling for and pushing for more local say about, we think, a common-sense approach to studded tires in a place where it hardly ever is below freezing anymore. We should be using them very little, if at all, here in Portland. It's kind of superfluous, really. Yeah, it is.
 No, and they cause a huge amount of damage. They cause a great deal of damage. Drive down any highway that hasn't been repaved in the last 10 years, and you're in trenches because of the studded tires. Have there been any studies done on how much damage that actually occurs in studded tires per year in the city of Portland? I don't know if it's been done for the city itself, but it's certainly been done on the state level. And I think that the figure I remember is about $40 million a year statewide
 So I don't know what percentage of the state streets we have. I mean, based on our share of the population, it's probably at least $5 million. That'll fix a lot of roads. Yeah, yeah. We agree with you about that. Sir, since you have the last word, is there anything else for the good of the order you'd like to share with us? Let's move on from that. Okay. As far as, I mean, discussing how we got here, we all know how we got here. It's superfluous to discuss it anymore. I mean, there's no free lunch. I mean, they have to be rebuilt. It's going to take money.
 It has to be done equitably and simply. I mean, a hodgepodge of different fees and taxes. I mean, let's keep this as simple as possible. Good advice. As rare as possible. Great. Well, thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all for coming, and we appreciate the excellent testimony we've got tonight. Sorry. Oh, got one more? Come on. Come on up, Lightning. Sorry. You get the last word. My name is Lightning.
 I'll represent Lightning Rethink Lab at this time. Commissioner Novick, this reminds me of a song by Billy Preston titled, Will It Go Round in Circles? And I like that song. Now, my position on this is I like your user fee. I like the tiered plan. So I do approve of that. One of the issues I've had all along on this, I think you're asking for too much money up front.
 You've been dropped a lot of the problems on your shoulders. We know that. It's been 10 to 15 years. Been a tremendous amount of neglect. There should have been certain people fired, and I hope they don't have any of their names on any buildings that were part of this in the past. Now, what I'd like to see is a $25 million cap on the overall number we're dealing with for the first three years. Then we do a sunset clause. Then we reevaluate the whole situation at that time.
 One of my biggest concerns right now, and I hate to say this, is Mr. McCullough. I'd like to see him, if at all possible, be hired from the city as a consultant. I don't think we can afford to pay his fees. Well, there's reasons why you might want to ask him that and negotiate a reasonable amount to do that. And I won't go into that right now, but it would be very advantageous for the city to have him on your side as a consultant under an agreement. Okay.
 I would recommend that, but that's up to you. I'll interrupt and not take your time for this, but I think Commissioner Novick is right that we couldn't afford his fees, but I think Mr. McAuliffe is having so much fun being Southeast Uplift Chairman that we will probably get his advice for free. Mm-hmm.
 Well, what I'd like to see on this type of research is that if he is your consultant, then he is responsible for the numbers that he provides to the public, and the litigation will be directed at him. That is why you hire the consultant to do that. So you're going to have a battle with him all the way through this. Now, again, as you know, the gas prices have dropped. We all know that.
 I haven't heard a calculation on how much the city has saved on their fuel prices within operating the city on their vehicles. There's got to be a savings calculated on that. I've talked to Multnomah County on the vehicle registration fees. They're open to discussions on that.
 They pointed back and said, well, what does the city want to do? Now, that is up for discussions, and I understand that that has to be approved by the attorneys and to see what direction you want to go on that. But again, I would not move to...
 too much farther without having a good understanding where Mr. McCullough is on this. And that's just my opinion, because I don't think we need to end up in a lot of litigation over this. And as an attorney, an ex-attorney that you are, you know that's the direction this is going to go. Lightning, just on the litigation front, I just want to clarify. Okay. We will not bill any businesses based on the estimates that we made. We knew we were making estimates because we haven't in the past ever.
 ask required businesses to submit all this information that would be the basis for the fee. If we adopt the fee, they will be required to submit the information, and we will compute the fees based on that information. Okay, that's fair enough. I'm just reading his report on what he stated on the litigation factor of the report. So that was a concern to me just as the public reviewing that. So other than that, I think, like I say,
 That's my position on it, and I think there's been so many changes, and the last thing I wanted to see is a lot of confusion created, but we've gone in a circle, and I think there's got to be a time that you understand there's got to be a number set and a cap set.
 and work it out for three years, see if the gas tax can go through. If not, we can try to adjust at that time. But other than that, we're going in circles on this. I appreciate the thought lighting. The reason we're concerned about asking for any less money is that even with what we're asking for, we're not even stopping the bleeding.
 because every month another stretch of street falls into worse condition and costs more to repair. You have a calculation on your total number of a 60% toward paving, another 40% toward safety issues. I want to just make sure some of the safety issues are taken care of within the first year.
 three years. Then I want to see if there's any additional revenue that we can pull within that time frame, and maybe the gas tax can go through also, because we're gambling on that gas tax. That's what it is. We'll see what happens. The county already did a small county gas tax for themselves, and as you know that, that was at three cents if I'm correct.
 Now, can we get that pushed through at the city level? I don't know yet, but we haven't done it. We need to look at the past and learn from that and not count on it happening too soon. That's my opinion, so thank you for your time. Just as a small correction, it's safety for 46 percent and paving for maintenance for 54. I was using just a close estimate of my numbers. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thanks.
 Again, I want to thank everyone for coming tonight. What we're going to do is I'm going to return this item to Commissioner Novick's office, and then it's our intention the week of the 19th, hopefully it will be the evening of the 20th, to have a council hearing and action on a resolution or set of resolutions that will refer the advisory ballot items to the voters.
 What's on that list is obviously still under discussion among members of the council, and you can continue to write to us by email or call us and otherwise communicate with us and continue this process of making suggestions about what you'd like to see considered. But we've certainly got a lot of very helpful testimony and good ideas tonight and appreciate you all being here. So I'm returning that item to Commissioner Novick's office. Rachel is saying we need to do it.
 We have one more item, which I think also has to be returned, right? So I'm also, sorry, I lost my number. Returning item 46, 47, and 36 to Commissioner Novick's office. Did I get it right that time? Thank you very much. Thank you all. Travel safely to get home, and we're adjourned.