On Wednesday, January 7th, 2019 session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Hardesty? Here. Wheeler? Also here. And colleagues, this is a very important day for the Portland City Council and the city at large. The city of Orange Race here. The...
 Anytime a commissioner is elected and sits at the dais for the first time, it's a really important moment. Because a commissioner over the course of her or his career have the opportunity to shape the community for the better.
 It's also an historic moment because this, as you just noted, is the first time in the history of the city where there have been a majority of women in the city council, on the council. This is also the first time that a woman of color has been elected to the Portland City Council. Thank you.
 I've had the pleasure of knowing Joanne for many years now, and I know her to be a tireless leader, an effective advocate, somebody who cares deeply about everyone in our community. Commissioner Hardesty, I welcome you to the dais.
 So with that, we'll turn to legal counsel. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up.
 If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest or trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 And thank you for that. And a little bit of housekeeping. Actually, today's agenda is exceptionally short. In fact, I think this is probably the shortest agenda since I joined the dais. So we don't actually have public testimony today on either of our agenda items, but we do have communications first. So, Carla, could you please read? I'm just changing the president. Does that require a vote? I move that we elect Commissioner Udeli as president of the council. Second.
 I'll accept that. Very good. Please call the roll. This rotates, so it's just a formality. Fritz. Please call the roll. Fish. I'm sorry. Udaly. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. So done. Welcome. And you have the plaque already? Very good. So with that, please call the first individual for communications.
 Item number one, request of Neil Walker to address counsel regarding North Portland Precinct Community Policing. Is Mr. Walker here today? Doesn't look like it. Next, please. Item number two, request of injured and pissed off to address counsel regarding want honest attorney. I did see him in the hallway. Okay. I don't know if he shows up towards the end. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 We'll just go ahead and step out of our seats after you guys have all solved. Mr. Ritchie, if you interrupt again, I'm going to have to ask you to leave. Please, you're interrupting. Mr. Ritchie, I'm not going to ask you again. Please either stop or I'm going to ask you to leave. We're going to take a recess.
 Alright, so I'm not going to stand and take this fucking... I'm getting killed, alright? I've been arrested over 18 times for leading up the exit. Look at this shit. I'm a non-violent person. I'm 17 years old. New Year seems a lot like New Orleans. It's so loud that it's into words. Sugar words. Just like Joe Walsh's. Whoa! Take me to your leader! Take me to your leader! Take me to your leader! Shave!
 Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase! Chase!
 in front of you. And again, I'm writing down that want honest attorney plus edtabor plus doj.gov. And I was down at the place where the city auditor's office is to sign up for this sheet that you have in front of you. And I asked them, well, why is it that they're not printing edtabor and the Department of Justice documents?
 and apparently I guess the city auditor stepped up or somebody in the office besides the clerk and the person in charge said that they don't write down or don't print third party people. Well, I didn't know that the Department of Justice is a third party but I guess somebody's partying. Ned Tabor, as I've said, is a polygraph examiner and I really don't...
 like either parties, the Ed Tabor or the Department of Justice, because, as you know, I've had seven dog attacks on my service animal in less than six years, and I was severely crippled up to where I can't even walk yet without the aid of a walker.
 The other thing that I wanted to bring up is that Colin Kaepernick is a nice guy compared to me. He's the football player that sits down or kneeled down to where the national anthem had been played. People could see me on tape.
 people was a veteran was pledging allegiance to the flag and I got up and turned around away from the flag and sat back down with my back to it. Well that's the way that I am. Colin Kaepernick, he just sits down on his knee and goes out and plays football. Well I can't do that but I can turn my back on the American flag. I will respect veterans and the
 But I won't agree with the American flag where the pledge is that everybody gets freedom and justice for all. Well, the old saying is you can't fight city halls, BS. Thank you. Individual, please, Carla. Item number three, request of David Keefe Davis to address council regarding targeting of cop watchers by Portland police and the city.
 All right. My name is David Keith Davis, Multnomah County Cop Watch. I wanted to point out this was about the targeting and harassment of cop watchers and kind of proved my point earlier when Eli Ritchie was gaslighted and harassed by your security staff, Chief Arrest Security, who run the detention camps in Israel and, you know, did the –
 and all kinds of other terrorist activities. I think maybe John Hardesty might try and get G4S out of the building if you actually believe in accountability and stopping the war on activists. And it's kind of funny because Michael Flynn recently, Trump's little buddy, he referred to citizen journalists as insurgents.
 and digital insurgents, and it seems like old Ted Wheeler and Chief Outlaw and the city of Portland kind of view cop watchers in the same light and citizen journalists to try and expose the corruption within the city. And I saw Adrian Nelson was here and swore you in today, Joanne.
 I don't know if you know her history about how she got a stalking order put on Eli Ritchie, green-lighted that for Chief Outlaw after he asked her a couple questions. And I know you've said that you trust Chief Outlaw multiple times, and you were instrumental in the hiring process, too.
 And I just want to say, you know, you remember Jeffrey Dahmer? He didn't set out to kill so many people. He just thought you could drill a hole in someone's skull, pour in some drain cleaner, and make them his personal sex zombie. This is exactly how politicians work. They drill a hole in the voter's skull and pour in some false hope and make them a subservient zombie slave. Thank you.
 misplaced loyalty amongst voters is one of the biggest catastrophic problems in our society. And I think that, you know, Chloe Dale is a perfect example of that. She has been instrumental in signing bills to kill off the homeless, like greenlighting the ODOT sweeping of homeless camps, the removal of our – yeah, you did, you voted, and it was in a unanimous vote. You voted on that, right?
 Wasn't it yes vote? And the removal of homeless so-called zombie RVs, which are killing lots of older disabled homeless people. Time's up, Mr. Davis. So you guys are all serial killers. Your time is up, Mr. Davis. And I'm just waiting to see. Your time is up. Thank you. Whoa, you're awesome.
 Next individual, please. Item number four. You forgot something there. Next individual, please. Item number four, request of Lee Hill to address council regarding financial stability of the golf program for the future. We'll take a recess. Are you going to say anything about this? I'm going to talk.
 Take your hands off. Take your hands off. What do you think about this? What do you think about this? De-escalate! All I did was ask you to knock it off. Don't you do that! Knock it off! Knock it off! All right, we will take a ten-minute recess, please. Thank you, ma'am. This is not how you behave.
 I think we're ready, Carla. Yes. Great. We are back in session again. I apologize for the delay. Mr. Hill, thank you for being here today. Shall I start now? Please, go ahead. My name is Lee Hill. I'm a longtime resident of Portland, and I'm also – I was a longtime member of what's called the Golf Advisory Committee, and I was its chair for many years also. And –
 The program is 100 years old now. It's a wonderful program. It's tens of thousands of people use it for recreation, all ages, cultures, races, and whatnot. But as Commissioner Fritz knows very well, it's run into some financial snags in the last few years, and I want to appreciate what you've done for it. You really stabilized it. The last CAFR showed that the program is kind of breaking even again.
 And that's a good sign. But the facts are these. In 2003, 2004, the City of Portland courses registered over 623,000 nine-hole rounds. That's the least common denominator we use a nine-hole round. The last few years, we've been under 400,000. So the demographics of golf and the play on our courses is down considerably. And the cuts you made were necessary. I understand those. But they've also affected the courses.
 What I wanted to do is just make an idea possible. We own Red Tail Golf Course, which is in another county in another city. It's in Beaverton. And I've been affiliated with all the golf courses throughout my life. I've been on the boards of the playing group. I've been with a committee and whatnot.
 And, you know, Red Tail is a great place, but it's not in the city of Portland. And we now pay – when I started on the golf committee, I think we were paying about $5,000 or $6,000 a year in property taxes there. It's now $200,000, and that's not going to go down. On the other hand, we have Rose City Golf Course in a dilapidated building. It's also not earthquake-proof. You know, it needs money, and they're trying to raise it privately, and it's just – it's hard to do.
 Heron Lakes is basically run out of a couple of trailers. These courses have the potential of doing tremendous good for the city in terms of recreation and youth programs. There are all kinds of youth programs that we used to have that have really toned down because of the finances. What if, just what if, we considered the sale of Red Tail?
 and putting that money into not just the Heron Lakes, put a pavilion in there and fix up the clubhouse at Rose City, but we could put it into all kinds of wonderful youth programs based around those courses on the east side. I'm just saying, could it be considered?
 Thank you. Can I respond? Commissioner Fish. And I realize that the commissioner in charge is not here today. I was just about to say that, so I won't speak for Commissioner Fish, but obviously since I was in charge of Portland Parks and Recreation for five years. But if it could be considered, if we could just run some numbers. And I know there are other things that have to do with the property at Red Tail. Codicils, the concessionaires who own some of the buildings there and whatnot.
 But I think it's probably the only way that we can really get our courses on the east side in shape and open up those youth programs again that we've lost. And thank you. So Commissioner Fish is not here. He is the commissioner in charge of Portland Parks and Recreation. I do know from having been in charge for over five years that that is definitely something that we have been looking at. As you say, the challenge is that there is a long-term lease with the concessionaire, which is...
 a significant legal issue. But the concessionaire could also be a possible buyer. I will just say that I know that Commissioner Fish is aware of this and is looking into the possibilities. Thank you very much and happy New Year. Thank you. You too. Appreciate your coming in. Did Mr. Walker ever show up?
 Very good. We'll get to the next individual, please. Item number five, request of Lightning Super Humanity XX1 PDX to address council regarding Keep Portland Weird, Keep Portland Human. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Humanity. Welcome, Commissioner Hardesty. I've sat alongside you here numerous times.
 and you're somebody that is very detailed, very knowledgeable, and if anyone speaks against you, they better have everything in order and get ready. Anyway, moving along. My subject is autonomous vehicles, driverless vehicles. It's my biggest concern right now for the city of Portland. I want to make sure that we're going to be in position with Larry Page, Sergei Brin, with Waymo, their autonomous vehicle company,
 And I want to make sure that we're in the position that we understand that when they come in, they're looking to remove the jobs of the taxi drivers, the delivery drivers. And we have to counterbalance that with what we want to do for the people of Portland. That's our first priority, period.
 How are we going to protect them? How are we going to make sure they do okay after this? How are we going to make sure the big titans, the tech titans, will put something out on the table before they aggressively come in like Uber and Lyft did and took over the taxi driving industry? Which, again, I didn't want those caps removed. I wanted the caps set in place for the drivers, drivers,
 You all wanted to remove them. The floodgates opened, and it's been a disaster for a lot of these people in the taxi industry. The founders of these companies, the people that have been here for years, you don't care about them. You side with the high-tech companies, and I don't like that anymore. Could you play this video, please? But again, welcome, Commissioner Hardesty, and enjoy your time while you're in here. Thank you.
 Now if a human worker does $50,000 worth of work in a factory, that income is taxed. If the robot comes in to do the same thing, you'd think that we tax the robot at a similar level.
 What the world wants is to take this opportunity to make all the goods and services we have today and free up labor, let us do a better job of reaching out to the elderly, having smaller class size, helping kids with special needs. All of those are things where human empathy and understanding are still very, very unique and we still deal with an immense shortage of people to help out there.
 And so if you can take the labor that used to do the thing automation replaces, and both financially and training-wise and fulfillment-wise, have that person go off and do these other things, you're net ahead. But you can't just give up that income tax because that's part of how you've been funding that level of human workers.
 Some of it can come on the profits that are generated by the labor savings efficiency there. Some of it can come directly in some type of robot tax. I don't think the robot companies are going to be outraged that there might be a tax. It's okay. Thank you. To the regular agenda, Carla, item number six.
 Update burglary and alarm systems code with current practices and definitions for alarm permitting. Colleagues, this is a second reading. This has already had council presentation and testimony. Is there any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item number seven.
 Authorize agreement with Lloyd BID, Inc. for program management in the Lloyd Business District. Any further discussion? No. Please call the roll. No DAs. Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. I believe. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted and we are adjourned. I'm constitutional. Carla. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Today's date is January 2nd, 2019. Carla, please call the roll. Are you Daly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Wheeler? Here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in City Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time, when testifying. Please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. Carla, have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? I've had no requests. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item, please. Item number eight. Amend the open and accountable elections program. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. First, I have to acknowledge all five of us are here, and it's really amazing to be serving with this group of people. And welcome again, Commissioner Hardesty.
 And thank you for your support of the Open and Accountable Elections Program along with Commissioner Eudaly. Thank you for your stewardship of the program for the first year or so of its existence. This has been a priority for my office, and I really appreciate everybody's support in helping getting us to this point. Particularly thank you to the Office of Management and Finance staff, Jennifer Cooperman, Jeff Baird, Tom Reinhart, have been really helpful in getting it to the point that we're at.
 and the program is very complex and has faced some challenges, and we are moving further along. I have a lot of confidence in the success of the program, and it will be ready to be implemented by July of this year. What we have before us are amendments that provide more clarity regarding the program regulations to ensure that there's appropriate management and oversight to improve the opportunities for candidates to use the program successfully. Thank you.
 Before us are additional amendments that will ensure that if a candidate faces issues with certification, receiving matching funds or faces penalties, an appeal process is available. And because of our timeline delay, we need to change the appointment dates of the Open and Accountable Elections Commission, which is the program's oversight body.
 While appeals are usually handled by the auditor's office in the City of Portland, the auditor has requested that we select an alternative process to handle appeals regarding open and accountable elections. Therefore, the appeals process will be conducted by an outside hearings officer to be recommended by the Open and Accountable Elections Committee.
 The Director of Open Accountable Elections, Susan Moté, is here to provide a brief presentation and walk us through the changes. And then I have a couple of invited guests for testimony. I do need to move a substitute, which Christina is handing out right now.
 This is Christine Inievis, and she has been very instrumental in both putting the program before the council in 2016 and getting it up and running right here. And so these are amendments to what was filed with the auditor's office last week due to some late things that people noticed, including Commissioner Hardesty. So I really appreciate everybody's getting it done. So, Susan, if you'd walk us through the amendments on the table, please. Yes. Good afternoon. Okay.
 The Open Accountable Elections Program has made some real progress in moving forward toward implementation. For example, we're close to finalizing a contract to build the technology for the program with a vendor who has experience in that type of design within the subject of campaign financing. And the contract is for $125,000.
 with a continued maintenance and hosting agreement for $12,750 annually. This doesn't include one-time project management and quality assurance for the build, though we expect that will come in at significantly less than the overall project cost.
 And one exciting aspect of the technology is that it will allow us to run the program with fewer staff than if we were implementing the program entirely manually. And in order to keep this type of implementation progress going, we're seeking the following amendments, some of which are more technical in nature and some of which are more substantive.
 The first one is to align the name of the oversight commission and the fund for the program to align with the program name so that they're all open and accountable elections commission, open and accountable elections fund, open and accountable elections program.
 The second one is to increase the number of commissioners on the Open and Accountable Elections Commission from seven to nine. You've asked for this so that we can ensure that we can get both diversity of skills and experience within the commission members, as well as a commission that reflects the diversity of the city of Portland.
 The third amendment is to change the length of the terms for the initial set of commissioners. Currently, the terms start in January and end at the end of December, four years later, with the exception of a few of the first commissioners who will serve two-year terms so that term expirations are staggered. We're asking that the first set of commissioners have their terms end instead on April 30th of odd-numbered years. Okay.
 so that the commissioners have time to carry out their duties related to the program, which includes writing a report, analyzing program performance after the 2020 election, and making recommendations to the city council for any changes to the open and accountable elections ordinance. We don't think we can expect them to complete that by December 30th after the November general election. So...
 The next amendment is to change the start of the election cycle to 45 days after the general election. The election cycle, as defined in this law, is basically when you need to start following all of the contribution and expenditure rules specifically.
 for the program if you'd like to participate in it in the next election. And this amendment would make that election cycle start 45 days after the general election to give campaigns more time to close out their books from the last election before following the rules for the next one. The Fifth Amendment clarifies who the city elections officer is for the purposes of the program. It...
 state law permits cities and counties to require more campaign finance information than the state requires.
 but requires that information to be reported to the city's or county's elections officer. For the city of Portland, that is the auditor. Without this amendment, the auditor would have to collect all of the information my program needs in order to carry out its functions, rather than that information going directly to me. So this would just change that for that purpose, and this amendment was requested by and approved by the auditor's office.
 The Sixth Amendment adds special elections to the contribution limits rule. This is, we believe, just a matter of a drafting error. All of the program rules were intended to apply to both regular and special elections. It just seems that for the contribution limit rule, it would only apply to regularly scheduled elections. And so we're just adding special elections in to be consistent.
 The Seventh Amendment delays implementation of the program to elections after November 1, 2019. At present, if a special election were called...
 very soon, right now, the program would apply to it, even though we have not yet had time to get the rules written, get the technology built, et cetera. And although there have been challenges and delays in implementing the program, our goal is to have it ready not just for the 2020 election, but for any special elections that occur late this year.
 The eighth amendment is to keep the program in Commissioner Fritz's office through July 1 of this year, and then house the program in the Office of Management and Finance. And then the final amendment is to allow contributions below $5, but only match contributions starting at $5 and up to $50.
 We believe right now the law says that allowable contributions have to be between $5 and $250, which would mean that if a candidate accepted a $4 contribution, that would be unallowable. And we think this is a drafting error.
 We wouldn't want to kick a candidate out of a program because they accepted only $4. The goal was to require candidates to collect no more than $250. However, for matchable contributions, we wanted to ensure that we're certifying candidates who've collected $250 or $500. Sorry.
 500 genuine contributions. So not to get one cent from 240 people and $250 from 10 people. It's important to get at least $5 to show that you have broad public support to use the program. So we just wanted to correct which type of contribution has to start at $5. That is all. And I will just comment that...
 The Mayor has asked that we have a work session over the next few months to discuss the appropriate landing place of the program ongoing and that's something that I'm absolutely eager to do now that we have the five of us here. This is the fix to keep us compliant with what was passed in 2016, keep the program in my office through the beginning of the start of the program and there will be that opportunity for everybody to weigh in on where you think it's
 Final resting place or Vouching pad Should be Commissioner Fish Thank you and thank you for your presentation I have just four brief questions First is on Appointments can you remind us What is the council role in Selecting the nine commissioners
 The law says that I will make a recommendation of the nine commissioners, and the commission will then approve or not approve those commissioners. And to what extent do you intend to consult with commissioners to solicit candidates for membership? We
 We already did that, Commissioner. And so what I would be hoping to do is, even as early as this afternoon, walk around and let you know who the recommendations are. I want to raise a technical question about hearings, which I hadn't thought about until I was listening to your testimony and then reading the language. And we may need city attorney guidance on this, but let me just state the problem. The hearings officer...
 is charged with reviewing an administrative decision made by either the director or the commission. So it is, in my view, very important that the hearing officer be completely impartial. Yet the amendment before us and the language before us says that the commission recommends the hearing officer and the hearing officer is appointed by the director. Mm-hmm.
 Now, that's perilously close to having someone appoint the judge to hear their case. Since what's in review, someone is going to an administrative officer because they disagree with either your ruling or the commission ruling or both. So are we sure legally that having the commission select the hearing officer whose job it is to review a commission's determination is free of any entanglement?
 Commissioner Fish, this is the first time this question has been posed, so I can confirm with others in my office, but I think it would be similar to administrative law judges, which are sometimes appointed directly by the agency and report to the director of an agency and sometimes don't. But if you'd like, I can inquire with the attorney that advised on this right now and get back to you. I guess the only point I'm getting at is to make sure that we build in – I mean, for example, what specific –
 qualifications does the Open and Accountable Elections Commission have to even nominate hearings officers? There is no such club as hearings officers. If we're not using an administrative law judge that currently is providing services to the city, what you're really talking about is finding a neutral and impartial lawyer, a retired judge. The commission may or may not have
 something to say about that, but as I think about all the expertise the Commission is going to generate over time about how to interpret the law, how to enforce the law, the values underlying the law, the one area where I wouldn't think the Commission is necessarily that helpful is in selecting a neutral to hear an appeal of their decision.
 I don't think I have a substantive answer for you, but I do have a clarification that may help. The amendment related to the city hearings officer is not a substantive amendment. It's bringing it back to the language as it was originally passed.
 There had been some discussion within Commissioner Fritz's office and me about moving the hearings to the city hearings officer. And I had amended, you know, done a red line of the language to do that. And then when discussions ended where the preference...
 of people above my pay grid, was to not make that change to the city's hearings officer, that language that you see that Stewie struck out, saying the city hearings officer, that was an accident. I failed to delete that amendment, or amendment that I had written in preparation for passing amendments today. So what that does is...
 So we're not actually amending anything today related to the hearings, code hearings officer. We're just correcting an amendment in the red line that we've sent to you guys. So let me just make a suggestion because I don't want to tie up the hearing. I would be more comfortable when this comes back to us at some later date.
 with a proviso that qualifies that the appointment by the director is subject to the approval of the council. Because I think it's important that the council be the check to make sure that this person is truly independent of the commission and the director. And I think there's something healthy because the only reason someone is going to the hearings officer is because they disagree with something you've done or the commission has done. And I think in terms of the integrity of the system, having some...
 We can't have a firewall, but we could have a system where at least the council could ratify your appointment and ask you the questions about why do you believe this person is neutral. So just food for thought, but I don't think it necessarily has to be adopted today. It seems like we might need to do that anyway because the contract with this person would have to come to council.
 This is an outside person who wouldn't be working pro bono, would be paying them. So I would think that I could certainly commit that that contract would come to council. What I would, whatever, however we land, Commissioner, just so that there is independent review by the council of who that hearing officer is, so we get to ask the questions.
 The third question I have, and, again, this was provoked by the conversation about this migrating from the commissioner's office to potentially OMF in the summertime. If this office migrates to the Office of Management and Finance, to whom would you report? Okay.
 My understanding is that we would be under the Bureau of Revenue. Sorry, BRFS. Can someone help me with what it stands for? Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. There we go. So could I, again, not to belabor the record today, but at some point subsequent, could I have some understanding of to whose pleasure do you serve? Sure.
 In other words, somewhere along the way, there's going to be a bump in the road. And someone is going to say at some point we need to change the director or we need to hold the director accountable or something about the director. When we make a change in the org chart, it raises the question about who actually makes that determination. Do you serve at the pleasure of the council? Do you serve at the pleasure of the director? And it's not an idle question because...
 At some level, you need to be insulated from any kind of arbitrary action. So I guess the question I would ask is, subsequent to this migration, you serve at the pleasure of whom, and what's the council role? And then finally, I got an email the other day, Mayor, that Judy Prosper had finally decided to move on, and she's been –
 tremendous resource to our office, to each of our offices, on how we apply the rules on boards and commissions, how we apply our ethics rules and other things, and she's really been indispensable. I assume that when the commission is composed and we have the nine members, we'll have a protocol worked out with the city attorney's office so that, Commissioner Fritz, they get the full training on boards and commissions.
 public records, emails, all that stuff. Because this is actually the first major body that has come into existence post those reforms.
 And I think we're all deeply committed to making sure that people have the information so they can serve effectively, but also avoid the missteps that other boards and commissions have had because they frankly didn't know what their role was. Yeah. We've actually taken a leaf after the mayor's book with the Police Oversight Commission. That's one of the reasons that we're not appointing the commission members today is to make sure that we do do all those steps in the right order. So, yes, absolutely, we will be doing the board and commission's training. Thank you. Thank you.
 Unless there's further questions, I assume Commissioner Fritz is moving the substitute.
 Yes, removing the amendments which are as outlined. The ones that are before you are amendments to 216.130C and 216.170 hearings and appointments and terms. Otherwise, because it's not a complete substitute. We'll take a motion as a package then. Yeah, a motion as a package for the two amendments. Great. Thank you. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion?
 Call the roll on the amendments. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Amendments are on the table. Thank you for all my news about that. And now I have two invited guests, Steve Carter from the AARP and Kate Titus from Common Cause. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. The microphones slide around about six to eight inches away seems to work the best. Name for the record, please.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. My name is Steve Carter. I am a volunteer with AARP Oregon, which has around a half a million members. I'm a volunteer.
 We were early and enthusiastic supporters of open and accountable elections. AARP has long promoted as an organization government integrity, civic engagement, and efforts to reduce the power of special interests and raise the voices of everyday citizens in our government.
 AARP was one of the organizations that worked with Commissioner Fritz to pass open and accountable elections. We support publicly financed elections, programs like this one. Why do we do that? Because we know how critically important it is to reduce the influence of special interests elections.
 money on public decision making while giving the full spectrum of members of our community the viable opportunity to run for public office. So I'm here today to urge the Council to back these proposed amendments
 to ensure a successful launch of the program later this year. And I appreciate that Commissioner Fritz and the program staff have identified and brought these forward. We have reviewed these amendments, and we are supportive of them. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 My name is Kate Titus. I'm here representing Common Cause and a coalition of groups that worked with Commissioner Fritz on this amendment. Good afternoon, commissioners and mayor. And I just want to say a special welcome to our newest commissioner. Thank you for breaking another ceiling. It's a shame that Portland has gone this long without a woman of color on the city council, but it's wonderful that you're here now.
 And it's wonderful, actually, that all of you are here now. I feel like we have great representation in this city. I just want to say that we're appreciative of the commissioners and the staff for working to get this launched well.
 The coalition has sent representatives meeting monthly with the staff to give input and review and have reviewed and talked about most of these amendments in advance and feel like this is the right way to go. We're appreciative of Commissioner Fritz and her staff and the staff of the program to identify these issues, and we're generally supportive.
 We'll say there's one amendment that we didn't discuss as a coalition. It was brought to my attention just before the holidays that I think is a little bit... I just want to raise that there's ambivalence about it, where it's housed, and I think there's not a good answer. We know that. It's a tricky thing. I think in some ways...
 Keeping it right where it is for these last six months sounds like a very smart thing, because, of course, it's thanks to Commissioner Fritz and her office that we're where we are, and I'm very appreciative of having strong leadership there.
 Of course, the optics of, if nothing else, of having it housed in a commission seat that's now open is somewhat problematic. And so, I mean, I'm not coming with any recommendation. I'm just raising the obvious that I think everybody's aware of that –
 These questions are challenging. But in general, I'm encouraged by the leadership from Commissioner Fritz's office and the staff for the program and appreciative of these amendments catching things that really should be adjusted, appreciative of your comments earlier, Commissioner Fish, thoughtfully really looking at how do we really get this right.
 And I just want to let you know that the community groups that are following this closely are supportive of your efforts. Thank you. That concludes our presentation. Very good. Any further questions of the panel before we move to public testimony? And then I might ask some folks to come up and answer some questions that I've got. Very good. Public testimony, Carla? Thank you both. Yes, we have four people, three people rather, left.
 Robert Patterson, Edith Gillis, and Charles Bridgetrain-Johnson. Come on up. Welcome. Charles, would you like to go first? Sure. Thank you. Good afternoon, Commissioners and President Udaly, I have to say. Good afternoon, President Udaly of the Council. And, of course, thrilled to finally see Joanne Hardesty replacing the long-serving seat of Dan Saltzman. I'm sorry I wasn't able to participate in this morning's shenanigans or whatever they were.
 I think there's been a lot of deep preparation for this. I think that some citizens might be a little bit confused or surprised when we zoom towards the back of Exhibit A at 2.16.190.
 that there's also the Commissioner of Public Utilities. And as a citizen in Portland who's overly involved in government, it's kind of bizarre to learn that there's also a Commissioner of Public Utilities in addition to a Commissioner for the Water Bureau and additional to a Commissioner for the Bureau of Environmental Services. I'm guessing that the Public Utilities Commissioner is...
 actually doesn't commission any public utilities. They take care of franchised utilities maybe, but we don't have to clarify that now. But I just think that as citizens process this, it's a little bit overwhelming. That was one of the charter changes I wanted to get made the last time we had a Charter Review Commission. That's the historic name of my position. It's not so...
 Right now, I actually am in charge of the Water Bureau, so I'm really thrilled that for the first time in my 10 years, I actually am the Commissioner of Public Utilities, and I do have one of them. Sorry to interrupt. The other thing is, since December of 2014, we've been using the same impact statement. And under the impact statements, it says, community impacts and community involvement.
 And I think that we should really look forward to breaking those two things out separately. In the community involvement, AARP didn't even get a chance to be mentioned. I don't know if they just engaged at the last minute. The other couple, there's, you know, a great list of community involvement there. But I think that we do want to be
 do better scoping. You know, here in Portland, we're very often pressuring environmental regulators to do very comprehensive impact statements and to kind of conflate community impacts and community involvement, I think is maybe not the best thing. This obviously is not an environmental issue. I don't think it's going to... I don't know. I mean, actually, I think there should be more. I don't know if it fits there, but, you know, hopefully this will have great impact on our community as far as reducing...
 the disproportionate power that establishment and wealthy people have in the elections process. And maybe that should have been put in right there. But...
 The other question or situation that comes to mind is oftentimes in the past when I've been here, we've thought, oh, what the heck? Just give it to the auditor. And the auditor usually has a wonderfully competent reason about why they can't do that, which includes the budget. But I don't know if that – I mean, to me, when we talk about impartiality and elections, it seems like the auditor's office –
 If there was some proper legal constructions and a guaranteed funding stream, that that would fit. Charles, just to be clear, those conversations went on for a lengthy period of time. Auditors has made it clear it will not reside in her office, and the door has been closed on that. Thank you very much. That's in the past.
 If I could add one comment on that. Actually, we could force the auditor to take it under the county charter, in my opinion. The city charter, I'm sorry. Wow. That hasn't come up in a lot of years. My long-term memory is finally coming back. This is great. Very revealing, Mayor. Yeah, unfortunately it is. It sadly is.
 But we also have decided that would not be a productive way to go. Thank you. Commissioner Fish is right. We've had that conversation almost ad infinitum. There's also been conversations about the county. Mr. Patterson? Mayor Wheeler, how are you? Good. Thank you for asking. Absolutely. Happy holidays? Happy New Year. Thank you.
 Gosh, I'm kind of nervous today because money and campaign contributions, I guess, make me nervous. The role of money in our politics makes me nervous. But I'm happy to see the new Commissioner Hardesty and to see the new President of the Council, Commissioner Udeli. Congratulations to both of you. Let's see. Okay.
 I guess the reason why the role of money in our elections makes me nervous is because I understand that those with money, especially in a booming city like this, so developers of real estate, often are able to sway the political process simply by giving an early donation to a candidate.
 But what are you going to do? That's the process, right? Now, I did read in the Oregonian over the holiday that our own mayor just got some, quietly, I guess, just got some donations, which surprised me because, oh, no, that wasn't the Oregonian at all. I'm sorry. That was the Portland Tribune, I think, the Trib. Anyway, I was surprised to read that.
 I'm sorry, I was surprised to read that because I also thought that you had checked out like a month and a half ago. So, Mayor, do you intend to run for re-election of this city or are you booking hotel rooms in Iowa and New Hampshire? Sure.
 You should expect that I will run for re-election. It's a conversation I'd like to have with my family. They have every right to participate in that conversation, so I'll be making a decision in 2019. And I will not run for President of the United States, even if asked. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Hello. I am Edith, and I'm so glad to see Joanne Hardesty, all of you there today. Thank you, Amanda, for all the hard work you have done, and I'm really glad that you've been cleaning things up quite a bit. And thank you, Nick, for pointing out the concern that we not have even the appearance of impropriety or vested interests.
 I also want to, and I don't really have the exact proposal on how to solve it, but I want us to be keenly alert that who owns the software can control all the information. And that can be a hole that can be pretty horrible, as we see in the software counting election votes and counting dollars and reassigning what categories dollars are in at what times they are counted. Okay.
 Having family members that create the software for municipalities. I think they should be paid for the hard work they've done, but that we should have it open for people to see any kind of shenanigans and that we have public control over that. I also want to make sure that we never have it in the control of an elected candidate as an auditor is.
 And I want us to be careful that we have some kind of criteria for who's on it. I don't want just to have...
 since we have so many percentage of people being a certain way, that we have someone who's a token who is not representing the needs, and that just because someone is houseless doesn't mean they don't have really strong, legitimate contributions and legitimacy that we need to hear from. Hear, hear. So I'd like us to actually write in some more of the criteria of what ideas and qualities we want to have on the team.
 And that could be overlapping or Venn diagram in many different ways. But if we just leave it to the same old white folks we're used to that speak our language and have our culture perspectives, we're going to have the same problems and we're going to have cynicism and distrust by the society. Overall, I'm just so grateful for the progress that's been made on this. And I'm feeling very hopeful.
 and I want us to make sure that we get back to those details.
 Thank you. Thank you, Monsieur. Let me just address the software issue, which is a good one. The contract will be coming back to Council so that that will be available. I think the concept is that most of the software will be open source so that it will be able to be checked by community members and that we are very aware that this is hopefully going to be a very marketable commodity when other cities and jurisdictions want to use it. So we want to make sure that the city has an ownership.
 piece of it should we choose to share it with other jurisdictions. I want to also say that I really want as much transparency and publicity
 And you can go to the software called Live Stories in which you can have almost real-time people asking different questions and having that data crunch really quickly in visual graphics that are easy for the common public in different languages to understand to give us a concept and that we not have those hidden times where if you get a whole bunch of money beforehand, it's not counted. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. I have a couple of other questions. Could I ask Jeff Baird to come up, please, Bureau of Technology Services? So...
 First of all, let me just state very clearly for the record, I strongly support the objectives of this program. I strongly support the values behind those objectives, and I'm very proud of the work that my colleague has done, Commissioner Fritz, and the work that the entire stakeholder group has put into this. I think it's been a yeoman's effort, and they're delivering what I think has the potential to be a very, very powerful democratic tool in our community. That being said...
 I have some concerns about the level of preparation, the level of expertise, the true understanding about the technology involved.
 questions about whether we have enough personnel that are deployed, and questions about how we're going to pay for this. And so I wanted to ask you a couple of questions that were prompted by some back and forth between my office and the Bureau of Technology Services.
 One of the questions which was raised was around establishing the actual blueprint for this program and making sure that we have the horse before the cart in terms of what ordinarily would be done to bring this kind of a new technology platform online.
 And it's my understanding that would include clear program goals, workflows, rules, and making sure that we have contingency planning in place for any unforeseen developments during that development process. And we know that during the city's last and I think inferior effort to achieve open and accountable elections, we ran into some of these same gopher holes.
 along the way. What level of confidence can you provide us that we have clear program goals, that we have a clear understanding of the workflows and the rules required to bring this technology platform to bear, and what is the state of contingency planning with respect to this program?
 Thank you, Mayor Weaver. For the record, Jeff Baer with the Bureau of Technology Services and City Council. Appreciate those questions. So we had worked – I'll give you a little bit of background on what we have done with the program and also with Commissioner Fritz in her office.
 We started last summer to really start trying to develop those blueprints, what we called defining the requirements for what the program would actually do, put together the workflow, put together the functional and technical requirements together. In my estimation, I think we got probably about halfway through that process.
 We then sat down with Susan to talk about what are the next steps to get us to the next process. We were at a point where we had recommended, and it was our position, that we were recommending to hire a business analyst to complete those requirements, document that, and this would follow the more traditional process.
 so that we then developed those into a statement of work in which we would do a solicitation process. That was, I think it was determined at that time that that would take a longer period of time than what was being requested. There was a concern about the cost of doing that process.
 So in some discussions we sat down and said, well, maybe there are some other alternative ways to which you could do that, which would be perhaps working with Portland State University through their computer science program and see if there's a way to work with that, or even with an organization like Hack Oregon, which is called Civic Software Foundation.
 That's the process we are going through right now. I believe, I think Commissioner Fritz noted that there's a $5,000 amendment or a contract coming before council to really, I think my understanding is that is going to put together the team of volunteers through the Civic Foundation. And then there's a, I believe there's a sole source notice going on right now that's posted for the, I don't know,
 I believe it's about $125,000 to do the actual software development by the developers within Hack Oregon or Civic Software Foundation. So that's where we stand today. I can't tell you exactly...
 I've not worked on a project like this with HACC Oregon. I know we've had some other examples at the city who have, so I've not personally been involved in that. But they are putting together a team and much more of an iterative process and developing basically a six-month sprint for the process to come up with a project by July 1st, as the commissioner announced. Thank you.
 So where will the $125,000 come from? Is that coming from current funds? I believe that's out of current funds. Okay, very good. And the timeline that we're all working towards is November 1, 2019. Where are we with regard to meeting that timeline? Okay.
 I would have to defer to Susan in her program office about what's the engagement looking like with the Civic Foundation. I think they're on track for a July 1st demonstration. Okay. And I'd like more clarity on that because that's not an optional deadline, right? That is a hard and fast deadline. And the program either succeeds or it fails based on that program.
 With regard to the personnel, the expertise, and the budget to actually implement this program, what can you tell me? Maybe that's more appropriate for the chief financial officer. She's shaking her head no. It's on you, Jeff. Thank you.
 I can address the question about getting some expertise on staff. We are working with their team and have interviewed a couple of different potential candidates for experienced project managers who have gone through software development like this. That will be very helpful in terms of getting somebody in to be able to help walk through and interact between the city and with the Civic Foundation.
 So one of the conversations that I had with the auditor, and I doubt very much she'd mind my saying this, is one of her concerns was the budget required to actually be able to operate this program. And I believe we currently have about 2 FTE allocated. Is that approximately correct? And she believed we would need.
 up to or perhaps even more than seven additional FTE. Do you have a sense of where we are with regard to what the FTE requirement is for this program? I don't in terms of the program and how it would be managed. My concern would be more on the maintaining and operating the system, which is eventually going to be up and running. So I can't answer that part of that question. Who can answer that part of the question? I would probably defer to Susan and her team. Would you like to come up? Thank you.
 Hello. Hi. So we've been looking, we've been talking to other program administrators of similar programs in other cities, counties, and states, and looking at the program functions they perform and how many full-time and how many seasonal staff they employ to perform those functions.
 and also looking how, you know, for example, some jurisdictions do everything on paper and manually and document it. It takes exactly eight minutes to validate. Each contribution is matchable. Some places use a mix of technology and manual verification. This program would use...
 perhaps the most sophisticated technology to get the bulk of verifications that are very easily done, payments made by credit cards by people who are registered voters, so it's easy to verify. It's actually from them. They're actually a Portland resident. They're actually 18 years old. So we're trying to get the easy ones done by the technology so that the program staff can just focus on the harder cases.
 And if we align... I thought that the cities that would be most similar to us in terms of functions that are performed and technology utilized to perform them would be New York City and Seattle. And if we aligned with how much additional sort of...
 seasonal staff we would need compared to their size of program which is much larger versus our which is much smaller it covers three seats it would be about two
 two full-time equivalents, but not permanent. They'd be seasonal. So I anticipate bringing the first one on no earlier than September of 2019 and bringing the second one on. It's unclear, basically, as needed. So it might be sometime in 2020. And then they would finish after auditing the program after the election in 2020.
 That would be if we were aligned with New York City's system. If we were more aligned with how Seattle utilizes seasonal staff and their needs, it could be up to five staffers, but they didn't have...
 They didn't bring all five on at once. So they brought one on initially and then added. So by the time the election was over, they had five full staffers. So we don't anticipate, we certainly don't anticipate seven FTEs. I think we're looking at for maybe no more than 16 months out of a 24-month cycle, we're looking at one to two FTEs of seasonal staff.
 In addition to the two, FTE currently funded, or is that the total? That's in addition. In addition. So somewhere between two permanent FTE plus potentially one, two, maybe... Yeah. Sorry. I think we're looking at... I suspect we're looking at two temporary staffers that, if both are on at the same time, would be two full-time employees. But they...
 would sometimes not be employed at all by the program, and sometimes only one would, and then the biggest crunch near the end, both would be employed. It's possible we might have to go up to four by the end of the program. I don't anticipate more than that. So as you heard Commissioner Fish say up front, one circuit breaker I'd like to put into this process is I would like a work session for the council when we get a little farther down the implementation road to...
 and I would assume by then you'd have some more confidence in the estimates with regard to FTE requirements. Is that a fair statement? Well, it's hard for me to know the exact timing, but the piece of information I'm keenly watching is as the technology is being built and tested, we can grab data from ORSTAR that are donor names,
 and start looking at is the technology matching of the people who are registered to vote, is it matching 80% of them? Is it matching 30% of them? Because we can, of course, shift the algorithm so that we get to a higher but still accurate match rate. But that's going to be the main thing that determines whether we're doing a lot of manual work or a lot of the work being done automatically. May I just ask a related question on this theme? And this goes to Jeff. Jeff, yes.
 Each of us in our respective races for city council have had a historic relationship with ORSTAR. So we're all more familiar with ORSTAR. Now, ORSTAR is administered by the Secretary of State's office.
 There is a private way to enter ORSTAR to put information in, but there's also a public portal. And, in fact, the information in ORSTAR is available to the public just by putting in a candidate's name, but there's another way to enter ORSTAR to actually put the data in. And some of us use staff people to do that. Others use third-party providers who do that service. Okay.
 My experience with ORSTAR is periodically they were down for maintenance. This is well documented because it's out of the Secretary of State's office. Down for maintenance. And also, if you read the national literature, some of these programs are highly suspect, highly vulnerable to third-party targeting. Now, the information is not confidential. As I said, you can go get the information through a public search. Right.
 But if you jam the system, if you put some kind of malware or something in the system and jam it, then you could create havoc, particularly if you did it around reporting deadlines. Do we have a sense of the – and I heard you're using – you're working with Hack Oregon, which is open source. Do we have any concerns about third-party vulnerability?
 One of the concerns we've expressed, and I think we've provided some information to Susan and to Hack Oregon, is some of our cybersecurity controls that we have and our expectations. So we want to embed whatever it is that they're going to develop to make sure that they have those cyber frameworks securing that information, because one thing we don't want to do is to bring in a whole host of new personally identifiable information or anything that might be confidential or restricted that's not publicly accessible.
 Are you, with regard to the budget, as we get closer to this, it's my assumption that there will be a budget package for the council to consider with regard to any additional FTE required to operate the program. Is that correct? Yes.
 We, I believe, will come to the council for authority to hire additional FTEs of seasonal staff. The concept behind the program was that there would be an annual budget allocation that carries forward each year so that by the time there's an election, there's enough money in the fund to pay for matching funds as well as all administrative costs. Okay.
 So as long as the program is fully funded every year, the hope is that it would be able to cover all costs, including additional seasonal staff. So for the first year, starting what we're discussing today basically goes to July 1st under Commissioner Fritz's leadership, and then it moves to BTS, OMF and BTS leadership.
 starting on July 1st. I assume the funding required starting on July 1st, since that is the beginning of the next fiscal year, would be sought during the upcoming budget process. Is that correct? Yes.
 Yes. The money for the program overall, administrative and matching, would be sought every year, and then what wasn't spent carried forward so that when the program spends the most money, which is in the run-up to elections in matching funds, that there's enough to cover everything. Okay. So I just want to put my usual blanket concern on the table just so I did, so there's no misunderstanding. I would weigh that budget request against...
 against all other budget requests because there will be many, and there will be many priorities for this council. And while this is a very important issue, there are other very important issues too. So I want to be clear that if I support the ordinance today, that does not commit me to supporting the budget ask in the upcoming year.
 budget process. Just let me be clear, the money is currently ongoing, so it would need to have an affirmative vote to get it out.
 And currently we're not expecting there to be an additional budget ask. You asked how many FTE, and would we know that by the work session? I think the answer to that is no, because we don't know how many people are going to qualify. I personally think it's going to be hard for people to qualify, because the standard of getting 250 donations of a certain size is a lot harder than people might think. I don't disagree with that.
 And I appreciate the work you did to actually make it so that you do have to put in the effort. In order to participate in this program, you can't mail it in. You actually have to be very aggressively pursuing an active campaign in order to qualify. And I appreciate that you did go through those steps to do it. But my question is really a budgetary one. At what point am I committing to the budget and how do I know what the number actually is? When do we cross that line? Well, when
 We're not planning to put in a budget request this fiscal year, so it would be the ongoing allocation that we've already chosen to give. So it would be the two FTE? Yes. But as Susan said, there may be additional limited term. Including starting on November 1, 2019, it is just the two FTE, because I thought I heard something else. There may be some additional part-time staff, and I'm not sure whether we have to get budget authority for those limited term
 temporary staff or not. Okay. I'll just say I'd like to have that clarified. Commissioner Hardesty has something to add. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I appreciate the clarification, Commissioner Fritz. I was tracking and then the mayor confused me and I think I'm unconfused now. So my question is this. We currently have an ongoing 2FTE funded for this program.
 But I heard testimony a few minutes ago that it could require funding beyond that. And we don't have all of the technology platform defined yet. We don't know how much of the platform is going to capture the easy low-hanging data versus how much is going to be harder manually delivered data.
 And so my question is simply, at what point are we going to know the actual cost of the program and what is the role of the council in terms of approving that funding and weighing that funding against other competing priorities? I don't have clarity on that point. So if I may. Please. Mayor, so what I'm hearing is if we fully fund the program as we intend to,
 moving forward, then the funds that we need, whether we need to hire additional part-time staff or not, will be included in that. They already are. That is my understanding, yes. The two FTEs are currently in ongoing sourcing. Yes. The goal, it is already funded if we fully fund the program as presented. Right? Heads are going up and down, yes. It's in ongoing funding at $1.2 million. The financial officer is going to set me straight.
 Greetings. Name for the record, please. Jennifer Cooperman, Chief Financial Officer. So as I understand it, your program has been funded, and that if you believe that in the context of that funded amount, you can pay for the technology, pay for your staff.
 and have matching money to award, then you're set. The minute that you believe that you need additional funds, if the cost to build this customized software exceeds what you are expecting, or if there are more potential candidates running and you need greater matching funds,
 that would be your trigger to come back to counsel and ask for additional funding. Mayor, may I? Yes. Because I think we're on the cusp now of an illuminating moment. Okay. Commissioner Fish. And so the chief administrative officer has reminded us that there is a – Financial. Excuse me. Chief financial officer. Shame on me for getting that wrong. Has reminded us that it's $1.5 million.
 I think it's 1.2. 1.2 million has been budgeted ongoing, so the council would have to reverse that. Out of that comes all expenses plus the balance goes out the door as matching funds. Correct. So that begs an obvious second follow-up question, which is, with all this uncertainty about technology and all this uncertainty about FTEs,
 Is there anything currently in the law which limits the amount of money that can be spent on technology and overhead, including staffing, in order to ensure that there's an adequate amount of money to go out the door? Because the way this will come back to us won't come back to us as a staffing request.
 it'll come back to us if there's no money available to match any contributions. So is there an administrative cap anywhere that dictates how much can be spent of the annual appropriation on technology and staff and related expenses? No. There is not. There's a cap on the budget, on the percentage of the city budget that can go toward the program, that can be allocated toward the program. So what's the – so I'm just curious, since we're putting ongoing money into this,
 What do you anticipate will be the split in the next fiscal year between overhead and money available for matching? So that is very challenging to – that is a number I'm trying to come up with. I have a number – I do have provisional budget. Okay.
 Now I kind of wish I had actually looked this number up before I came into this meeting. But I don't anticipate that the program will in any way be overwhelmed by administrative costs. But keep in mind, one of the reasons we're struggling with this a little bit is that
 Our unique role is to determine whether resources that are appropriated are going appropriately to things like staffing and overhead. That's what we look at. The fact that there's money left over to do a matching program is great. One thing we know is that that pot is going to either come under a lot of pressure if there's a lot of candidates or not, and that doesn't change the appropriation. But we look at things like program efficiencies, staffing, appropriation,
 cost of technology and everything. Those are the questions we ask as an oversight body. At what point will you have clarity about what the mix is? So could I just answer that? Because every step of the way, things come back to council. The contract is going to come to council. So Susan said in her presentation it's $125,000 and then ongoing costs of $12,500. That is what we're looking at. So new positions would have to come back to council. Okay.
 And so far we're thinking it's all going to be, we are confident it's going to be all under the existing budget. Should it turn out that far more people apply than we have matching funds for, we would have to come to council in a bump request, either in the fall or the spring. Well, my understanding is if you have more candidates than you have funds for, you go to a rationing system, not come to a bump. That would be up to the council to decide, but that's the process. So every single step of the way, the council makes a decision.
 Well, I guess the only marker I want to put down is whether you come back to us seeking additional staff and overhead or you come back seeking additional dollars to go out the door, at some point the public is going to want to know how much is going to overhead, how much is actually funding the program that the council said we were going to deliver, which is a matching fund program. It isn't a jobs program. It isn't a technology program. It's a matching dollars program. Yes. Okay.
 There are still questions that in implementation we are working through so that we can give you a number that you can rely on on that. But those questions, we just don't have enough information at this moment to have a clear answer to that. However...
 Nothing has indicated to us that this program will in any way be dominated by administrative costs, and we have been fighting tooth and nail to minimize the costs that the technology costs, while still getting what we need to prevent us from requiring too many seasonal staff, because that would be penny-wise and pound-foolish to be low on technology and then have to spend a lot of money every other year on seasonal staff.
 Um, we've been fighting tooth and nail to make sure that we're getting a very good value for the city's taxpayer dollars for each of these administrative pieces of getting the program up and running. So, um...
 We can have data for you soon around that, and I can have some provisional data for you even sooner than I could maybe have a number you can rely on. But there are some question marks still, especially on how many seasonal staff we will require once we know more about the technology's performance. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Susan, my question has to do with
 When you started putting these pieces together, you actually started a bit behind the curve, right? Because the time has been constrained just based on the city council's actions, right? We didn't move as fast as we were supposed to. Yeah. And so I just want to make that part of the record. It's like had we started earlier, we probably would have clear of answers today. Yeah. And so...
 Can you give me, is it 30 days or 60 days that you could give us something that you would be confident in actually providing to the city council? Well, so thank you for acknowledging that. When I was hired on June 13th of 2018, that gave me one year and two weeks to get an entire complicated program up and running. And even just given the city's procurement rules.
 that is virtually impossible. So we have been working very diligently to pull rabbits out of hats to make sure that we're able to get a very savvy technology partner who has worked with campaign finance data before, who already has the infrastructure built for this program and just has to customize an application to it
 so that we can get things done for the least money and as quickly as possible using city procurement rules. That has been incredibly challenging. Because there's just no way for us to get this technology to the point where we will have the question answered of what the match rate is between the donors and the...
 the voter registration list answered. We won't have it in the next 60 days. That, I hope that that is one of the only questions we don't have answered in the next 60 days. We should have answers. We should...
 I don't want to say anything inaccurate right now, but we have a lot of answers already that can provide an incomplete picture of what the administrative costs will look like. And then additional answers will come in as we continue moving this toward implementation.
 Great. Sorry. Yes. I'd like to just highlight some comments that have been made, starting with Commissioner Fritz identifying this as a complex and challenging project. This is customized software. And when you're managing a software implementation, you've got time, budget, and scope. Those are the three things that you can control. We're set on the time. We have a budget.
 But the scope with the business requirements is what still needs to get built out. I'm worried about the time. I'm worried about having something that is functional and works in time for November 1. The devil's going to be in the details. There's a lot of work that needs to get done. If it's coming to BRFS, I just want to put my marker down about what my concerns are because it's going to be on all of us if it doesn't work. Okay.
 So could I ask you a question to that? I'm sorry to belabor this, but I'd be remiss if I didn't. What of contingency planning? What if you get two or three months down the road? What is our contingency plan? What's the plan B? I'll partially answer that in saying that we have the Technology Oversight Committee. They've accepted this as a project to oversee planning.
 The City Council will receive a quarterly briefing on the project and on the progress of the project. So you will see that. Plus, Susan and her team will be reporting monthly to the Technology Oversight Committee and also hiring an external quality assurance consultant to make sure we've got a third party looking in to make sure things are going forward. So, Jeff, we'll get at least two quarterly reports from the Technology Oversight Committee? Yes.
 To our newest colleague, and I'm sure you already know this, but one of the virtues of that committee is when they come in and review all the technology programs that are undergoing, they use a very simple color coding of red, green, and yellow. And what we do is focus on the yellows and the reds
 and they are made up of computer technology experts. And if there are glitches, and the history has been good intentions notwithstanding, technology often gets the better of us. And we've all in our bureaus had challenges with technology. The oversight committee gives us a real-time guidance and check-in if there's a problem. So Plan B is going to be a manual process.
 I don't know what that looks like. I would look to Susan to help flesh that out, but that's what it would end up being if we don't have a workable technology.
 And the $125,000, so there's a $5,000 grant that's not coming to council because it's not over $5,000. That has not yet been executed, but it's close to being executed. Then there's a $125,000 contract that will come to you, but it hasn't yet come to you. I think the idea of the grant was to give some ability for HACC to get started.
 even before the contract comes to you for approval, but the contract has to get written. So in my mind, it comes down to the business requirements and what direction and what detail is HACC being given to get started and do their work so that when the contract is completed, they're not having to do a 180 and go differently than where we set them off in the first place.
 Jennifer, whose responsibility is it, and I feel reasonably good about this program and the direction and the work that's been done so far, but I also believe you need a plan B. Whose responsibility is it to create the plan B?
 It's my responsibility. Okay, and is that something you are actively working on? I am working on that. And Jennifer Cooperman was correct that if there's no technology up and running, it would be a fully manual process. If we have technology that is partially functioning, then it would be a partially manual process. And how much of it is manual, if we had to go to a manual process, that would be a number of –
 a significant number of seasonal staff that are helping us process everything by paper. The voter-owned elections program was processed entirely by paper. We are hoping not to have to do that. But there would be a budget request coming in if the technology was not running and we were running a significant amount of that program or all of it manually. Okay.
 And just to state the obvious, we need that information sooner rather than later. Yes. Because there may not be a bump this year. Mm-hmm. Just looking at some of the, I'm not making any news because I haven't seen the forecast, but I think we all know what's going on with regard to revenues. Mm-hmm. Very good. Commissioner Hardesty. Good. Anything else? Very good. Thank you for your hard work on this. We appreciate it. Thanks for answering our questions. Thank you.
 Carla, please call the roll on the ordinances amended, please. Thank you, colleagues. This has been a really helpful discussion, and I appreciate everybody being committed to getting this program right. Thank you, Susan Matej and Anna Paisio, and to Tim Crail and Christian Nevis on my staff. Thank you.
 I'm going to read the list of the coalition members who have been helping to push this and guide us from the community because I think it's important for everybody to know what kind of community engagement is going on. The Alliance for Democracy, APANO, Basic Rights Oregon, Bernie PDX, Bus Project, Coalition of Communities of Color, Color Pack, Common Cause, Communication Workers of America, LOCOM, Enlace, Every Voice, Latino Network,
 League of Women Voters, Main Street Alliance, Moves to Amend Portland, NAACP, Portland Branch, Opal Environmental Justice, Oregon Education Association, Oregon League of Conservation Voters, Oregon Student Association.
 Oregon Walks, Osberg, Pekoon, Portland Forward, Representos Portland, St. Michael's Church, Social Justice Group, Sierra Club, SEIU State Council, UFCW Local 555, Unite Oregon, and the Working Families Party. So there's a lot of community engagement on this. There's a lot of guidance. Each one of these partners was reached out to in terms of suggesting people to apply for the commission, and
 We, the city government, this is a test of can we all work together. And so I really appreciate the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Technology Officer, and the whole of the Office of Management and Finance, your partnership, Mayor, with Tom Reinhart in the Chief Administrative Officer's position. It's on all of us to respond to community and make sure that this program works.
 as the council directed. I want to also thank the Procurement Services and the City Attorney's Office, who have been really helpful in figuring out the contracts and the nuts and bolts. And this is just a key part of our democracy. It's so important, and I appreciate everybody who came out in December of 2016 to help get it passed.
 And I especially appreciate those of my colleagues who didn't support it before, who are now knuckling down and shoulder to the cart or whatever the acronym, whatever the thing is. We're all pushing together to make sure that we collectively can deliver this program. And so thank you very much. I'm very proud to vote aye. Fish. Fish.
 Commissioner Fritz, thank you for bringing these amendments forward, and thank you for structuring a hearing that I thought was very informative. And I appreciate on some of the concerns that I had hearing directly from the director, from Jeff Baer, and from our CFO. And I appreciate that in the next, say, 60 days or in a reasonable period of time, we'll get some follow-up. Obviously, the more...
 clarity we have about some of these issues, the more likely it is the public will have confidence in this program. I have been on the council long enough. I was reminded this morning that I used to be the most junior member of the council, and as of today I'm the most senior member of the council. And one of the things that I've learned over the ten years is to bring a certain level of humility to all new technology projects.
 And I appreciate the director saying that, you know, she's reasonably confident and she's going about it with her eyes open and we're hopeful. The reason Commissioner Saltzman put together the Technology Oversight Committee, which a number of us supported years ago, was that these technology programs have this habit of moving sideways on us.
 And then technology changes and vendors change and they get more complicated and more complicated. And then there are bad actors out there that hack into our systems and want to get the data. So I would just say that having seen a lot of well-intentioned technology programs go south, I applaud you for your optimism.
 I also think that the Mayor's question was spot on about what's your plan B, because your plan B may need to be a serious interim plan until technology issues get worked out. This is a complicated area. And anyway, this hearing has been helpful to me in understanding some of the challenges we face going forward more clearly, and so I appreciate it, and I'm pleased to support the amendments. Aye. Hardesty? Aye.
 Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your consistent leadership in moving this issue forward. It's wonderful to be on this side of the desk because otherwise I would have been on that side today testifying in support of this measure. This is a vision about who we want to be as a city.
 And it's a vision about who has the privilege of serving on this council. And I look forward to us working hard and diligently to make sure that this is implemented in a way that we, the city council members, can be proud that we were leaders in this effort. And that the community will be proud that they have another way to serve in public office here.
 I can tell you that as someone who just recently went through a brutal election, that small donors are not only possible, but it's the democratic way. It is the way to ensure that as many voices as possible are included in this process. And so I wholeheartedly vote aye.
 Before I get to my remarks, I just want to address something that's come up a few times today, and that is that I am the newly appointed president of the council. Congratulations on that. Yeah, thanks. I want to assure you this is not a special accolade nor an earned privilege. Thank you.
 It is a responsibility that rotates every six months. It is simply my turn to be president of the council and stand in for the mayor when he is unavailable. But you may continue to call me President Udaly, although I have to admit it makes me a little sick to my stomach to hear that. Number two, I just want to note my short history with open and accountable elections and express my gratitude
 unwavering support for it. I inherited it with one of the bureaus that was assigned to me by Mary Wheeler. It didn't come with any funding because it had been passed towards the end of
 2016 we diligently tried to find a home for it at both the auditor's office and Multnomah County elections. There were many, many conversations. I did my best to sweet talk both of those entities and I had no bites. And it was late in 2017 that we asked if Commissioner Fritz would want to take back
 the project and she said yes and so we did lose some invaluable time but I am very hopeful that we'll be able to to move forward successfully with it. Our electoral system was not designed to welcome or include regular working people. Portland City Council in particular has been the province of affluent white men for most of its existence.
 In over 100 years, only nine women and three people of color have been elected to city council. And Commissioner Hardesty here has bumped those two meager numbers up, both of those two meager numbers up, as the first woman of color to sit on city council.
 In addition to racial and gender inequity, we've also seen political power concentrated in a very small area of our city. Commissioner Hardesty is only the second sitting commissioner to live in East Portland. For two years, I was the only commissioner living on the east side of Portland. There is a point to all of this, I assure you.
 Portland voters have made it clear that they want election reform at the county and at the city level. And they want a council that's more representative of our city, which is roughly half women and around a third people of color. And there are certainly other demographics that deserve to be included and heard. And I hope in future elections we'll see more of those demographics.
 candidate step forward. There's also growing interest in changing our form of city government to districted form and open and accountable elections is a vital step forward whether we change our form of city government or not to evening the leveling. I just made up another word that's just something I do up here every once in a while. Leveling the playing field for
 Commissioner Hardesty, Commissioner Fritz, and I may each look like exceptions to the rule because we're all women and we didn't necessarily come from the most conventional backgrounds for politicians. But I want to acknowledge we each had kind of unique resources and qualifications and community connections that I think helped us.
 get in these seats and not everyone has that. And that shouldn't be necessary in order to win a seat on city council. So, first and foremost, thank you to Commissioner Fritz and her team for taking on the responsibility for doing the hard work to get this program up and running. I'm looking forward to helping making that happen.
 helping make that happen. I support allocating more resources to the program given that it was not fully funded in the 18-19 budget year.
 I support having a work session this spring to help us settle outstanding funding and responsibility issues. And I do want to just express an ongoing concern, which is where this will ultimately live. The reason we were looking for a home for it is that I want to use open and accountable funding for my next election. Therefore, I cannot have that sitting in my office. It's a conflict of interest.
 So I think that the program may need to continue to be assigned to a commissioner's office through the first election cycle to help it overcome unforeseen obstacles and navigate difficult political questions. I'm concerned about the program or city staff. I'm concerned about...
 I guess the success of the program and city staff's success with it, if it's assigned to them before it's fully fleshed out and stable program. I vote aye. Wheeler? Well, first of all, congratulations, Commissioner Hardesty. You've made it through your first day. I mean, this is fantastic, and what a great day it's been. Did you agree with the council based on your first day? No.
 Incomplete, Nick, incomplete. But that's a joke, by the way, that's funny to nobody except me. But the first of all, one other, thank you. Thank you, Rachel. I appreciate it.
 This was a great hearing, and I'm just doing a little bit of a pop-up here. It's actually great to have this level of deliberation as a council when we have both the luxury of time and the ability to hear testimony and have a conversation.
 where we can really get into the brass tacks and talk about something of purpose and of meaning. First of all, I want to thank Commissioner Fritz. When we first started talking about this two-ish plus, maybe even three years ago, when we started talking about this,
 I have many, many questions about this and what its future would be, and you made a lot of representations and assurances about what your process would be and what the product would ultimately look like. And I just want to say for the record, you have lived up to that commitment to a T. So I want to personally thank you for that.
 Second of all, Commissioner Udaly, I'll just second what you said. I know that you worked tirelessly to try and find the best independent home for this project so there would not even be the appearance of conflict of interest, and I just want to acknowledge that I believe you did everything you possibly could and then some to ensure that that would happen. I will confess I still have questions about this program.
 not about whether we should do it, not about whether it is the right path, not about whether it espouses the right values. I just have questions about implementation of this program, and I think this council is going to need to continue to be very, very diligent. We heard testimony from our professional staff, number one, describing this as a completely new technology program.
 If that doesn't raise the hair on the back of your neck, nothing will. That requires additional diligence, and I believe Commissioner Fritz and Susan and others have taken steps to make sure that we have adequate oversight, that we have independent expert, experienced eyes on this project to help guide us and make sure that the project doesn't go sideways.
 Second of all, we heard concerns expressed by the chief financial officer with regard to the timeline. I share those concerns, just knowing how things tend to work.
 when you have multiple bureaus and community engagement and a lot of outside contractual relationships. I just want to say for the record, I share that concern, and I hope that we stay on top of this to make sure that we are adhering to a very, very unforgiving timeline. And last but not least, of course, concerns about the budget.
 And I appreciated Susan's frank responses, and I appreciate that you are going to continue to be on top of this and that the council will continue to get that information, that you will continue to work on contingency plans that are hopefully never used. There's an old saying that I adhere to, which is,
 Planning is everything. Plans are nothing. I hope the contingency plan stays on the shelf, but I think we'd be foolish not to have a contingency plan in place and ready to go if necessary. And finally, my concerns are significantly allayed knowing that Commissioner Fritz and professional staff are prepared and willing to have a work session.
 that we will get regular reports from the Technology Oversight Committee to make sure that things are on track, that we'll keep communicating with each other as a council on this important issue and make sure that it happens. Now, last but not least, because Commissioner Udaly left me this opening, while I agree with you that campaign finance has been, on the whole, a negative influence over the democratic process,
 I also believe that the Charter creates significant impediments to representation and participation. So I would take up the calling that you put on the table and say both of these things need to happen. We need to address the question of money in politics, and we need to address the question of representation in the city of Portland, and it is high time we have that conversation. Personally, I believe our...
 Charter is a relic. We are a growing, dynamic, diversifying, increasingly complex community, and we should at least ask the question, do we have the right form of government? Other cities that had this form of government have already addressed that question by moving on to what I believe are more modern forms of government, but that is for another day. Can you reveal some of that point? Commissioner Fish, yes, I would.
 My understanding, because this is a conversation that I heard a lot in my campaign, is that it is likely that the city will launch a charter review process in 2020 or 2021 in which we appoint people to a commission that then has the unfettered discretion to put on the ballot some change. I, too, have very strong opinions on this subject that are probably at variance with a couple of my colleagues. But yes.
 just so that people understand hearing us talk about this, there will be a formal process and it will likely be the charter review process in 2021 when the public will have a chance to weigh in. Is that your understanding? That is my understanding. Yeah. Thank you for the point, Commissioner Fish. So without further ado, I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you, everybody. And believe it or not, we are adjourned.