Good morning everyone and welcome to the January 7th meeting of the Portland City Council. Welcome to the first meeting of the new year. Would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning everyone. We have a couple of items of council business to deal with before we get into our agenda and the first is a recognition.
 A passing of community treasure, Geneva Knowles, and her family is here today for us to have a moment to honor her. She was born on Christmas Eve in 1935 and died December 22nd of last year following a long illness. She was the wife of Paul Knowles, known as the mayor of Northeast Portland to all of us.
 and who lived in the same house with Paul for 49 years, and is the mother of an extended family, some of whom are here today with us. Geneva was the owner of Geneva's Sheer Perfection, which employs 13 barbers and beauticians, one of the longest-running and most successful African-American-owned businesses in northeast Portland. She started as a barber in 1962, and at the time was the only African-American woman barber in Portland.
 She'll be remembered for a lot of community service and a lot of community recognitions, like the Business Excellence Award, the King Neighborhood Business Award, recognized by the Portland chapter of Delta Sigma Theta, Women of Excellence, many more.
 And she'll also be remembered for her work in a lot of good causes like the American Cancer Society and the Sister Circle and New Hope Baptist Church, the Urban League of Portland, so much more. But for those who knew her and loved her, she'll be remembered as the person to go to for encouragement or a hug or a smile, just person to person.
 In lieu of flowers, the family has asked for donations to Self-Enhancement Incorporated, and information is posted on our website, my personal website, and I'm sure others in the Council will do likewise because we all knew and treasured Geneva.
 So one of the things that I get to do is make declarations and proclamations, and so we're going to declare that Sunday, January 11th, will be Geneva Knowles Day in Portland. But I'd like us to begin this day and this year of action in the Portland City Council with a moment of silence for Geneva Knowles.
 Thank you. Paul, thank you to you and your family for being here today. You have our love and support of Geneva's passing and our thanks for all the good that she did in this community. Thank you so much. So we'll move on to more routine business and wish you, Paul, and your family well at this time of her passing. And we have work to do. There may be other members of the council who would like to say something while you're here, and then we'll let you proceed. Thank you.
 Yeah, let's take a break so we can say hello personally, and then we'll move on from there. So we'll recess for a couple of minutes. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Now, before we get into the council calendar, we have internal work to do, and that is each every six months we elect a member of the council as council president to preside over council in my absence, and it is time to do that, and I need a motion to elect Commissioner Novick because we do this by rotation and acclamation, we hope, as the next president of the council. So do I have a motion? Is there a basis to state an objection? No, there is not. Okay.
 I nominate Commissioner Steve Novick as president of the council. Is there a second? Further discussion? Roll call on that motion, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Congratulations, Steve. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Hales? Aye. Dunn? Passing the official. Okay.
 Emblem. All right. Thank you very much. Welcome, everybody. We'll begin in a moment with council communications items and then move on to the regular agenda that includes both some time-certain items and the rest of the balance of our business. Thank you.
 If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, we typically allow people three minutes, and we ask that there always be decorum in this chamber. So if you agree with someone's point of view, you're free, of course, to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand, but we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or in opposition to our fellow citizens so they have a chance to have their say, regardless of whether we agree with them or not. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization under our city code, you're required to disclose that, so please do.
 And with that, we'll turn to communications item number one. Request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding street fee. Mr. Rogers, come on up. Morning, Mayor. Morning. Commissioners, thank you for this privilege to have a few moments with you. Ever since the beginning of the street fee and as I grew and learned more, there's a picture in my mind's eye I wanted to share with you, and now I have an opportunity right now.
 And it has to do with something that Amanda recently shared, about $3 a month and missing a meal. Because near where I live, near 111th, an old, old Winnebago showed up. And there was a mother with four children. And, you know, I drove past it for about a week and began to talk to them. And they lived in a trailer park nearby. And they were just overnight evicted like that.
 And there they were in this old, old Winnebago, and the kids running all over the park near Floyd Light Middle School. And you could tell poverty. I mean, they were hard up. And this picture has come to mind because that mother of those four children, this was taken during the Dust Bowl era. It's a classic photograph. And I love photography.
 And that's why it came to mind. So I really respect the fact of what you had to say of taking the stand that you have on the street feet. And I really support you on that because that mother had so much fear. And fortunately, as a result of being in the work group, I had an opportunity to meet Jill, who was the head of Home Forward. And so then I got information from Jill.
 to give to this mother of four young children who were probably in the ages of 2 to 12 and see if something could happen there. And I stayed in as much communication as I could with her to help her move forward there with Home Forward. So there you go. I mean, hey, I wouldn't know Jill unless I had attended all of those work group meetings.
 So then something I subscribe to is Investors Business Daily. And here it says, Leaders and Success. It has 10 secrets to success, no matter what you do in life. And number 10, after you go through all the others, is be honest and dependable. Take responsibility. Otherwise, number 1 through 9 won't matter. And that's really significant to me. So, boy, time's running right along. Okay.
 I think it's interesting to note that in this auditor's report that it says, however, despite PBOT knowing the inevitable and cost consequences of failing to maintain streets, PBOT management and city council, limited street maintenance work in recent years, choosing instead to focus on other priorities. That's why an oversight, a real oversight, is so important. All right.
 Thank you very much. Thanks. You're welcome. Okay. Welcome. Next person, item number two. Request of Mary Eng to address counsel regarding access to democracy. Ms. Eng, are you here? Doesn't look like that. Okay. Number three. Request of Ben Harvey Pickering to address counsel regarding being criticized for speech and not allowed to talk. Mr. Pickering. Okay. Number four.
 Request of Kirsten Everett to address counsel regarding homeless issues. Ms. Everett, come on up. She couldn't come today, but she asked. We don't typically allow that because then we'd be doing proxies all the time, so I'm sorry. Okay, sorry. Thank you. Number five. Request of Lanny Provo to address counsel regarding danger on the tracks at Northwest 15th Street. Okay, come on up, Ms. Provo. Good morning.
 I'm here with Susana Escalisans and I have another person, Elizabeth, who recently had accidents on Northwest 15th. And 15th and what, sorry? Hers was Northrop and Overton. And the other one was closer to Front Street. Okay, where it crosses the main line. Near the Montessori School. Okay. Okay, there are these, I'm sure you're familiar with this street. There are old tracks that are embedded in the street.
 And a lot of times they're covered with debris, with leaves, with trash. And we're all aware that the light rail tracks can be dangerous for bicycles. But Susanna, like in October, and also Elizabeth, and some other people have fallen there too, was thrown from her bicycle and had a broken leg, and she had to have an operation on her wrist.
 And we just feel like that, well, I know you have a problem financing some of these projects, but I would hope that you would at least put in some signs similar to the ones you have near the light rail tracks to warn people that it's dangerous there. And also the fact that on Front Street there's a lot of new apartments being built, you know, close to River Pacifica along the riverscape area. And there's a lot of people moving in there from other areas, and they're not really familiar with
 the situation there. And I personally almost fell there, but I didn't have an accident. But it's just something that's not, it's not easy to anticipate what's going to happen because the tracks are, the street is irregular and the tracks are kind of embedded and,
 Hopefully someday they'll be taken out or else you can pave over them. Yeah, so you're talking about the old freight tracks that are still in the street. The old freight tracks that are still in the street that were either they were left there for nostalgia reasons or they were left there because they didn't have the money to take them out. I suppose you could recycle the steel and pave over them. Maybe you could compensate for some of the lost money.
 sorry to hear you got hurt yeah luckily i was able to recover in the last three months but the only way to ride on that area is on the middle and so because i tried to let a car pass me i went on my wheels got caught and that's what threw me off but um yeah it would be nice to at least have signs if you can do anything about the road because at least this way you would be a little more
 I'm eerie about trying to go there. Yeah. Well, one of the reasons why we have this process is so people can bring things like this to our attention. So we appreciate you coming, Mr. Novick, as transportation commissioner. I'll talk to the Bureau and see if there's anything that we can do and see what the cost is of actually removing the tracks, but also see what we can do in terms of signage. Okay. Well, there's another thing. There are bike lanes on, like, 14th and on 16th.
 but because of the traffic and also because of the convenience. A lot of times people do short trips into the Pearl on that street. Elizabeth, who's a flight attendant with Alaska Air, broke her thumb, and she was going to come, but she couldn't make it this morning, and she's been out of work for like two months because of it. Yeah, we appreciate you letting us know about this, and obviously the Bureau under Commissioner Inouye's direction can look into it. We did create that.
 that peculiar sign that we used along the streetcar line. Yeah, I like your sign. Actually, the City of Portland sign shop actually invented that sign because there was no national standard sign to use for watch out for the tracks if you're on a bike. But maybe there are other places, and you've just identified some, where it's not necessarily the streetcar tracks but other tracks in the street where we ought to use that. So
 And again, sorry that you found out painfully about this problem, and we're glad that you let us know about it. Well, thanks for letting me talk. Thank you very much for coming. Take care.
 Okay, let's move to the consent calendar, and I believe there's a couple of items that are going to be pulled. One is number 11, which I'm, with no objection, going to pull and reschedule for January 28th because we think there's a possibility of reaching some agreement in that case. And I believe there's been a request to pull number 13 to the regular calendar. Is that correct?
 Yes. Okay. Are there requests to move things from the consent calendar to the regular calendar? If not, then let's take a roll call on the balance of the consent calendar. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? I just want to recognize that we are, in passing the consent agenda, we are appointing Tiffany A. Hager, who is here in the audience, to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners to represent the City of Portland. So congratulations, Tiffany. Aye. Okay.
 No, Vic I just wanted to say that I'm relieved that 11 has been pulled I hope a resolution to be reached because I'm concerned about the effect of a lawsuit on our Relationships with the ghost of Dennis Hopper and with the bicycle bicycle messenger community. Hi hails Hi, and Tiffany congratulations. I thought you were gonna talk about a blue ribbon committee. That was the low-hanging fruit Let's let's move on to time certain number six
 Amend subrecipient contract with JOIN for $492,273 for housing vulnerable adults and outreach and housing placement to veterans and people experiencing homelessness in Multnomah County east of the Portland city limits. And could you also read 7 and 8 as well? 7, authorize subrecipient contract with Catholic Charities for $110,000 for housing placement services for women
 And number eight, amend intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County for $355,000 for the homeless family system of care program. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. In last year's budget, City Council allocated an additional $500,000 in new ongoing funds to additional services for people experiencing homelessness. Through a competitive process...
 which emphasized the priority populations identified in a home for everyone, including women, families, vulnerable adults, and veterans, as well as increasing access for people of color, three programs were selected for funding. The first is Catholic Charities Housing Transition Program, which will work with Rosehaven, Easter Seals, SAFEs, and the New City Initiative,
 to transition 40 women from the street into permanent housing. The second is the Homeless Family Program. We will build on its success of partnerships that it has, which rely heavily on culturally specific providers to move 66 households into permanent housing, including 15 who have experienced domestic violence. The third investment is JOIN and Cascadia, which will continue their innovative partnership with Public Safety
 to permanently house 38 individuals. This is a program which started initially with one-time funds, and we are excited that it will be continuing as it proved to be a success. Here to talk about these programs are Margie Deschain, Catholic Charities Housing Transition Program Manager, Tana Sanchez, NEA's Director of Family Services, Will Harris, Interim Director of JOIN, and Assistant Chief Bob Day of the Portland Police Bureau. You can all please come up.
 Might need to pull up an extra chair. Why don't you, Margie, why don't you go ahead and kick things off. Thank you. Housing Transitions is a Housing First program that places homeless, non-parenting women in permanent housing and then offers ongoing support for housing retention and community engagement.
 Our program operates a Monday through Friday drop-in center, women only, where women can access basic services like showers and laundry and food. It's also where we begin our relationship building with people so that we house them and have an ongoing relationship with them for often a couple of years.
 Through the Home for Everyone initiative, Housing Transitions will work with our longtime partners, Rosehaven, Salvation Army Safe Shelter, the Easterseals Senior Employment Program, and New City Initiative to place at least 40 women in permanent housing and also to offer them opportunities for work and community engagement.
 We will meet women at the places where they're most comfortable, adding Rosehaven and SAPES to our existing outreach efforts, housing at least 10 women from each of these programs. The Easterseals Senior Community Services Employment Program works with individuals 55 and older who do not have income and places them in community agencies half-time at no cost to the agency.
 We've referred many women to this program over the last few years, but have also benefited from having Easterseals interns work as part-time staff in our program, both in our drop-in and our employment programs. These two interns have added to our capacity by the equivalent of a full-time employee.
 And our first intern from Easter Seals, a 58-year-old woman that we placed in housing a number of years ago, is now a permanent employee of Catholic Charities and works as a resident services coordinator at one of our housing sites.
 Through this initiative, housing transitions will be able to place at least 10 older homeless women in permanent housing, and Easterseals will ensure their ability to have income, provide valuable assistance to other community programs, and to maintain their housing on their own.
 New City Initiative engages faith communities in providing programs and services to formerly homeless individuals. We have partnered with New City in our Healthy Sisters program, which engages volunteers to provide practical assistance and health information to formerly homeless individuals and to improve their overall health, and also to engage in community after placement.
 New City provides volunteer-driven social activities, giving the women a richer life, reducing the isolation women often experience after moving indoors, and enhancing housing retention. Housing Transitions expects to house at least 40 homeless women through this initiative, and we're so grateful to you for giving us the opportunity to do so. Thank you.
 Tana, you want to talk about the homeless family system? Yes. Well, good morning, and we want to actually thank you so very much for this opportunity. Not only NEA Family Center, but SEI, Human Solutions, Catholic Charities El Programa Hispano, Portland Homeless Families. Goodness, am I forgetting something? No, I'm not. That's it, I think.
 Anyway, we're all just very, very excited about the opportunity. There are so many, especially communities of color, that struggle with homelessness, and in such a way that it's a little bit different. Not all of them are accessing the shelters. Not all of them are really putting it out there that they're struggling with things. Many of them are doubled up and even tripled up in families and living in places that obviously are not meant to be lived in.
 So this is just an amazing opportunity. The team is very, very excited about having some additional resources to work with.
 They've done some amazing things with families, and they've broken down some barriers that were just even minimal things. I mean, I just want to tell you about one in particular. We had a family that they couldn't get into housing because they had a legal issue that had been from another state far away. I think it was Georgia or something that had a legal issue that kept the man from getting his ID, from getting from, you know, saying that.
 he had something on his record and and our one of our homeless team members was able to you know make communication with that district and talk to him about the situation and ask them to if they could reduce the feed to so that they could pay the fee and be able to let that go and get his id and get his get be able to get into housing it was an amazing thing that it just took a few weeks
 for them to be able to do that. And that's something we didn't even think about that could happen, but this is the things that our mobile housing team are thinking about, like how do we do this? How do we eliminate problems that are legal issues or that are back rent from who knows when or something that happened a long time ago to help these families get into housing? And it's working. Yeah.
 That's the most amazing thing about it is that it's working. And they're able to think of these things. They're able to help talk with landlords and help people make that communication that maybe they didn't have that opportunity before. Maybe they didn't understand, like, how do I go about this? How do I explain this situation? And sometimes this is obviously with families who have never been homeless in their lives and they didn't know what to do next.
 So it's a really amazing opportunity to have all of these team members working together and figuring out how do we best serve the people in the city of Portland. So thank you so much for that opportunity. Thank you, Donna. Will?
 Thank you. I really appreciate this opportunity to share JOIN's work inside this Home Start initiative. JOIN Street Outreach brings us into relationship with a highly vulnerable population. They're facing deep and complicated challenges, multiple obstacles to transition off the street. In many cases, this population has had repeated interactions with public safety, accessing community resources, and
 And we're here to thank Commissioner Saltzman and Council for dedicating some critical resources through this Home Start initiative to help overcome those challenges to housing success that so many of this population face.
 Our collaboration is built on a strong working relationship with the Point Police Bureau and brings additional resources to that relationship and emphasis. Officers on the street have access to a 1-800 number that connects them to joint outreach as well as a dedicated email, as well as the personal relationships with each of joint outreach workers and now Cascadia Behavioral Health workers, which is an important addition to this process.
 We find that a lot of times the basket of available services, it's the mental health that's been missing. It's folks that have been on the street for a long time. And having a Cascadia mental health worker available has been critical in many instances in creating that basket of services that is going to help somebody be successful in a transition.
 To date, going back to the origins of this funding, we've helped 47 highly vulnerable people move off the street and into stable housing. Those are safe places where they can explore other interests and add value to their life. And I'd like to share a story of one individual who,
 man named Michael who's been homeless for or had been homeless for over a decade in inner Southeast Portland regular at st Francis dining hall we'd connected with him about three years ago and I
 The extent of his challenges were so pervasive that about all he could remember day to day was the name of his joint outreach worker. And we would get calls from St. Francis staff and from him asking about his disability check, which he did get. But he couldn't remember who his PE was, how to access his check, how to access his disability benefit, how to use that in any fashion, how to live on his own.
 And through that process, he probably epitomizes the vulnerability that some folks face on the street. He was preyed upon repeatedly, and as that victim of crime had so many interactions with public safety, and it's something that we don't normally think about in terms of how homeless people interact with public safety. They're victims of crime as well.
 And so using funding in this initiative, we were able to connect with a Cascadia mental health worker who was then able to leverage Cascadia's other resources around mental health services and find him placement at the Royal Palm, where he's able to access really supportive community group therapies and services.
 other other process through which he can develop the skills around a daily routine and if we can get somebody stabilized in a place where they can create that daily routine other things become possible bandwidth exists to explore other interests and i think when we think about this funding at least from our expensive perspective in our in our role in this
 is how do we not only place people into housing, but how do we recreate value in their lives? How do we let them have the resources to recreate added value in their lives? And I think we've done that with this funding with people like Michael. I'm very thankful that council dedicated these resources, and we're very excited to continue to expand this collaboration outside downtown into other high-impact areas like Northwest Portland and St. John's, among some of them. So thank you. Thank you, Will. Chief Day? Thank you.
 Good morning, Councilman, Mayor. Thank you. I just want to start out by saying grateful, Commissioner Saltzman, for this opportunity, for this ordinance. I remember as a young police officer being assigned to the Mounted Patrol Unit in the early 90s and addressing...
 Some of our chronic homeless and camping issues, I can still vividly remember one night being at the Burnside Bridge issuing multiple citations and taking a very enforcement approach at that time with very little consideration about where do people go or where do they need to go and how are their needs met. And I'm embarrassed by that because I think that was out of ignorance on my part.
 Thank you.
 to not only get people into housing and the story of Michael that we just heard and so many others, which I can relate on a personal level from our officers' experience, but I'm now able to direct our officers who are trying to balance community needs, criminal behavior with also people that are just in need of assistance or experiencing homelessness or mental health or drug and alcohol addiction, all the things that play into this.
 We're able to actually provide resources. Twenty years ago when I was out there, I didn't have any idea who existed and where to direct people. I just knew that you couldn't be here right now and you needed to leave. And now, you know, even our terminology within the police bureau, we talk about outreach and we begin all of our conversations with an opportunity to direct them to other areas besides the criminal justice systems.
 And that has been such a blessing, not only, I believe, for the individuals, but I want to speak for the members of the Police Bureau that are out there and feel like they have other options besides just enforcement. And this funding really allows for that, and I am grateful for the partnerships. We're all learning as we go, and I think we're a little late to the table, but we're getting there, and I appreciate your support for that. Thanks, Steve. Appreciate it. Questions for this panel? Thank you all. Thank you very much.
 And let's see if there's anyone else that would like to speak, really, on any of these items, six, seven, or eight. We have four people sign up. Okay. The first three, please, coming up are Margie Deschain, Joe Walsh, and Mr. Lightning. Mr. Deschain's been with us. Yeah. Okay. And Charles Johnson can come on up, too. Okay. Who was first? I'm sorry. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Yes.
 We have a concern about the administrative costs of these programs. What happens usually with this council is you allocate money, and then you go on to something else because you're busy, and you do other things. And I understand that. It's not a criticism. It's a fact of life. You do a lot of different things. Our concern is that you not allocate this kind of money –
 And then just forget about it. Now, also we have a question about, and I think I'm right on this, this is outside of the city limits on the east side of the county. Is that correct? That's what it says. It says it's the county all in city limits. The homeless family system operates countywide. All right, but then why do you have city limits in there? You say county and city limits.
 It seems to me what you're saying is that you're going way out east, which I have no objections to, but you have 2,000 to 3,000 people right here in the city that can't find a place to sleep. So where are all those funds? So I look at this, and two things come to mind. JOIN does a really good job moving people from temporary housing into permanent housing.
 Outstanding work. I mean, they're going straight to heaven on that one. However, their outreach is questionable. And we're hearing on the street that they're being told that Joint has a waiting list of three to six months to see a caseworker. So in my mind, you would come up to somebody on the street and say, hey, would you like housing?
 And they say, yes. And they say, well, okay, fill out this form, and we'll get back to you in six months. Now, if that's the program, somebody ought to say that's not good enough.
 So there's two things here. Let me wrap this up. There's two things that I'm concerned about. Number one, and I think Commissioner Salzman said I'm wrong on this, and the way it's written up led me to believe that it's way on the east side of the city limits. It should be here and there. I don't know how you do that. Maybe $200,000 each way.
 But you have people right in front of your offices that are on the street. Why would you go way out there to find them? Thank you. I think as I read the ordinance, maybe you can respond to this, Commissioner Saltzman. We've already amended another intergovernmental agreement under item number four of the ordinance to accept an additional $207,273 in county general funds in order to pay for the portion of the work that's outside of the city limits.
 So they're paying for the portion of the work that's outside of the city limits. We'll talk to the county about that tomorrow morning. Well, hang on. I'm answering your question. So they're paying. We're not paying for services outside of the city limits. They are because the county provides a variety of services. But you're coordinating it at least. And then we have the contract with JOIN.
 Right. That's right. And that's problematic. Okay. But as long as you know that the color of money is right here, and that is the county's paying. It's all tax money, Mayor. Sure, sure. But you raised the question, why would the city of Portland spend money outside the city limits? No, I said why would you spend money to do this kind of stuff? You're an elected official. So is the county. We will talk to the county tomorrow about this. But I'm saying you have a responsibility also because you're saying you're the contractor in this.
 So I'm saying, Mr. Contractor, I want you to look at this very carefully and say, is this the best use of the money? And I like joint. I'm going to say that straight out. I love them. I don't like them in their outreach programs. Okay. Good. Thank you. All right. Lightning, good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning PDX Humanitarian Services.
 Again, Commissioner Saltzman, I want to commend you on your efforts on this. Any money directed toward the homeless situation is positive in this city or Multnomah County. A concern I had originally on this is just to make sure that the funds for Multnomah County, since they do also have a surplus...
 are being paid from Multnomah County on the east side where it's necessary to do that. And I understand that's what you're doing on this. Now, a couple other concerns. Again, I was very impressed with the joint speech and also the officer that was up here. We're making great changes pertaining to the homeless. I think we're making great strides. I think that we need to keep focusing on the addictions that a lot of people do have and
 We need to offer better treatment. We need to treat them better. We need to understand that when we do remove them, where do we remove them to? And that has been stated today. We're looking at that very close. And to also understand what is the best treatment for people that really need certain services provided where they might not be able to get into other type of housing because of their addictions. We need to keep focusing on that.
 I want it focused on the suicide prevention aspect of this. We need to understand that a high percentage of homeless people that are heroin addicts do commit suicide. It goes down the list of meth addicts. It goes down the list of cocaine. It goes down the list of alcohol addicts.
 We need to focus on that and keep a close eye on that and understand that treatment is out there and we need to keep providing that and understand when you remove people, it creates a lot of stress in their lives. They've been displaced out of their homes, from their jobs, from their friends, and when they're out on the sidewalks, out on the streets, they're looking for more positive solutions, which the speakers have stated they want to go in that direction.
 Again, Mayor, I'm going to compliment you on the bigger picture of homelessness because I was listening to a, it's called Aspen Ideas. It's where some of the founders of certain companies in other states go and have discussions. And Brian Chesky from Airbnb at that meeting said that because of Mayor Hales, I'm looking at doing more things toward affordable housing and also the most vulnerable people in the city.
 That is the biggest direction that we need to have is people coming into this city, understanding if we talk shared economy, we need to also understand the homeless communities are part of the economy, and you begin to share that responsibility also. That's what was stated, and if we can continue to do that from the get-go, we're going to end chronic homelessness in this city, and we will maintain chronic homelessness.
 chronic homelessness from the first year and let these other services step in and provide the service they need. Ending chronic homelessness can be a reality with the right people brought in and the right resources from these other companies that are billion-dollar companies coming into this city and stating that they're listening to you close on the issues of homelessness. Thank you. Could you give us afterwards the reference to where this gentleman –
 said what you've just quoted? Yes, sir. You can pull that up at the internet. It's called Aspen Ideas, Brian Chesky, founder of Airbnb. And that'll be... I'm delighted to hear he stated that as a goal and we'll be looking closely at the details. Let me answer that if I can, please, sir.
 He stated that as a direction he'd like to look into to be part of the solutions through this city. There's no other commitments there, and I respect that he's at least thinking about it, looking at it, and determining how they want to spend the resources in this city.
 That changes the whole dynamics of homelessness through this city to have people do that before they enter with their businesses. Well, Commissioner Saltzman has proposed we take 100 percent of the revenue from Airbnb and we address affordable housing, which I support. And if the president of the company believes he wants to use some of his revenues –
 to help address affordable housing, I think we could potentially have a marriage made in heaven. So I'll pull it up. Your numbers might be a little bit high, but their intent to look at it and address those issues is one of the most positive things that we can have going forward in this city. And it will change the dynamics of ending chronic homelessness. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Johnson, good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Charles Johnson. And I don't know which is a more contentious phrase around here, Airbnb or the United States of America versus the city of Portland for the conduct of the Portland Police Department. But it was encouraging to hear the officers' words about improvements in interactions with homeless people and people in distress here. Yeah.
 However, when we look at these items 6, 7, and 8, and we begin to see the paperwork blossom 12 pages here, 21 pages there, 6 pages there, we haven't even talked about the fact that there's other contracts with REACH and Hacienda. That just adds more weight to Mr. Walsh's words that we have to wonder about oversight and administration. Obviously, these funds need to be released. You need to vote yes on these items.
 We need to have a more comprehensive number and fact-based discussion that what happens with the Coordinating Council to End Homelessness or the Coordinating Council to Perpetuate Jobs at TPI and REACH and Hacienda and JOIN. And you can see this list is getting long. We haven't even talked about the new person appointed to the Housing Home Forward Board. So in the anecdotal stories that were brought up,
 And the reason I mention the United States of America versus the city of Portland is that's supposed to have some crisis services, a mental health drop-in center. And even though it's a nice story about releasing money, it was a story of failure. It was a story of making up for a mistake. And I hope that our fellow citizens will continue to
 not just pressure you, but also work with you creatively to have solutions so that people who have...
 mental health and barriers to housing don't have any time on the street, that they can actually just go into Cascadia or Cascade Mental Health Services, get treatment, not go back to sleeping on the street, not be given a ticket for $5 nights on the floor at City Team. And with Senator Wyden having been in the area for the past few days for his town halls, I just want to remind everybody who has a complaint about the way people are stacked up, sleeping along Nato Parkway.
 under the Morrison Bridge that they need to engage with their federal officials and restore funding that was taken away that was formerly keeping people safely and humanely housed and now has them out on the streets in the elements. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Anyone else want to speak on these items? Come on up. Morning. Morning, Council. Mayor. Yeah, my name is Steven Antwistle. I'm
 I represent individuals for justice, and I also represent the Healing Man Sanctuary. I would like to address a few issues that I see, and what I see is from certain enforcement individuals, a culture of hate against people that are experiencing homelessness. And there's a brutality that is used to intimidate people
 and more or less, I don't like to use the word, but terrorize people that are homeless. And I see this, and I see the effects of this, and this is not good. This is not good. This is not what we want in our city. We talk about how the good things that we do, and that's good, everything that we do. But this has to stop. And I would also like to say that we should make it a hate crime for anybody to beat up on homeless people just because they're homeless. Yes.
 or just because they're financially struggling. That could be any one of your cousins, your aunts, your fathers, anybody, any family. Mr. Salzman could have a cousin out on the street, and if a cop's beating him up and he's not doing anything bad, he's not saying anything, what does that say about our society? These things happen, and I think we need to take concern on that. We can do much better. We don't have to worry about giving up.
 Money to the homeless, you know, it's not going to hurt them. There's certain things that people know what to do with money, and money is a shortage right now for people. People aren't going to be clamoring over the borders trying to get over here because it's so good for homeless folks. That's a myth. That never happens. But that's something that is preached here. There's like an invisible red line here from the help from the folks in our government
 to the people that are actually going through the hardest times. And I think we need to take a harder look at this and look at more solutions. The more solutions, the better. The more options, the better. Every little bit of help, every little bit helps. Greatly it does. But we shouldn't limit the options. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Angela Hammett. I'm here representing Individuals for Justice.
 I just like to take the opportunity to say thank you for everything that you are pulling together and it can't be easy it's a major problem and I know that you've put hours and hours and hours into helping the situation I appreciate your task force that I believe you're in charge of Amanda Fritz with the mental health workers responding with the police and
 The only thing I would change is that I would have the mental health people arrive in their own vehicles, not in the police cars. It's still intimidating. They might not be getting out with a big gun, but they got a man with a big gun there with them. And that is very intimidating for mentally ill. It's intimidating for me. I don't...
 I don't feel like there's a power. I don't have a gun and a badge, you know, so I don't have the power that they have, and so it is intimidating. I would like to talk about, I don't know how or if you have any control or, you know, if you have any –
 anything to do with these, but the JOIN, the SAVES, the Salvation Army for Women, all of the programs that I've seen, that I've come in contact, that I've taken people to, to get help, there is a breakdown there. I took one gentleman in to get help. He needed a payee, and they ended up stealing his money. And so I thought I was helping someone, and what I did was send him to the Woolz.
 a tpi will never send anybody to tpi again they um it's the it's the workers not so much in the top uh but uh safes you walk in there and you were treated disrespectfully you're treated like the bottom of somebody's shoe um you know um i think that those places could um hire the people that actually need the place
 rather than hiring people that are there they have no compassion they have no empathy they are there to pick up a paycheck and you are a pain in their butt that's just how you're treated when you go into these places
 I appreciate what you're doing, but it would be nice to put... I see women there sweeping the floors, mopping the floors. They want to be working. They want to do their share. They want to pull. They're not getting paid for it. They get to sleep on a floor and a mat. That's what they get. And the other people that are working, they should not be working there. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, anyone else? If not, then these are emergency ordinances. Let's take a roll call vote on each, please.
 Item 6, Fritz? Aye. Fish? Anne, thanks for your leadership on this. To our trusted mission-based nonprofits, thanks for the great work that you do in the community. Sally, Ryan, and the Gold Medal team at Housing for the work you do. And we've had a number of people testify today that we're still falling short. One thing I think we can predict with certainty is there will be fewer, not more, dollars coming from the federal government.
 now that the Republicans control both bodies. So we will not be seeing an increase. And remember, the last two candidates for president of that party suggested we abolish the Department of Housing and Urban Development as not being a priority bureau for the agency for the federal government. So we're not likely to see more federal dollars, and that's one of the reasons why I will support Commissioner Saltzman's proposal in the regular budget that we take $5 million of the one-time general fund money
 in this year's budget and we apply it to his housing investment fund because the only way we're going to solve this problem is to increase the supply of affordable housing. There is a shortage. We must attack it from the point of view of adding to the supply, and I think Dan has the right idea with the HIF, and I will support that during the budget cycle. Thank you, Dan. Aye. Saltzman?
 Well, I want to thank the providers who presented to us today for their great work, and I also want to recognize Sally Erickson and Ryan Divert and Shannon Singleton of the Portland Housing Bureau for providing careful oversight and administration and making sure that these dollars
 are achieving good results, and I think we heard evidence of that by our invited panel today. So I'm very pleased to support this and thank the council for their commitment of this ongoing funding of $500,000 a year. Aye. Novick? Thank you, Commissioner, and thanks to everybody for your testimony and your work. Aye. Hales? Aye.
 Yes, thanks, Commissioner Saltzman, for your leadership in this community and council priority and for these great partnerships administered through the Bureau with people that really do care. Obviously, there are places where we always have to work on how we deliver those services. And obviously, as Commissioner Fitch pointed out, we need to find local strategies for that.
 for solving these problems because help from Washington on a number of fronts is not likely to be forthcoming. So we as a community have a habit of coming together and finding the ways and means to make a difference, and this is a good example in each of these cases of how we do that. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Okay number seven Fritz I fish I Novick I hails I number eight Fritz I fish I Saltzman I Novick I hails I Okay, let's move on to our 10 a.m. Time certain which is just the adoption of findings. Could you read that item, please? Oh
 Item number nine, consider proposal of Mark Eland for demolition review approval and the Bureau of Development Services staff recommendation for denial for the demolition of the Buck Prager Building, a contributing resource in the alphabet
 Historic District built in 1918 to allow for the construction of a six-story apartment building with below-grade parking on the west half of the block at 1727 Northwest Hoyt Street, LU 14210073DM. Mr. Fritz, do you have any comments or would you like to just make a motion for adoption? I move to adopt the findings. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? Roll call on adoption of findings. Fritz.
 Well, again, thanks to Bureau of Development Services staff for their excellent work on this project, and also please convey our thanks to the Historic Landmarks Commission, whose write-up was also outstanding. And I believe that with this vote, we are saying that historic resources are important in Portland and that contributing structures contribute to a historic district. So I'm very pleased to vote aye.
 Fish? I thought we had an unusually thoughtful discussion and hearing last time, Mayor, and I'm grateful, Commissioner Fritz, for the way you helped shape our conversation. And I think we are, in taking this action, saying the bar is high for these kinds of actions. These do not come to us very often, and we are going to take them on a case-by-case basis, but I think we got it right in this instance. Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 I was on the losing side of this vote substantively, but out of deference to staff, I will vote to adopt the findings supporting the decision the rest of the council reached. Aye. Hales. Thank you. Aye. Okay. We need to move on to item number 13 that was pulled from the consent calendar and act on that and then move on to the regular calendar. Okay.
 Item 13, pay claim of Dean Marriott in the sum of $49,000 involving the Bureau of Environmental Services. Ben, what do you need? Tracy's on her way down. Okay. Does someone want to speak on this item? Apparently not. So I think we're ready to act on it then. Do we know who pulled it? Joe Walsh pulled it. Since we're changing our previous way of...
 Right. His request. We're doing what he asked, so. Did he know that we were going to do it right now? I don't know. He probably thought we were doing them at the end like we usually do. All right. So would you like to speak on this item, Mr. Johnson? Yes. Good morning, Commissioners. This item got fairly good inside coverage. I think fair treatment. Even though it would have been nice maybe for you all to stay on the consent agenda, I
 Things are going to happen. We have a public servant who had a 20-year career, and then at the end, there's reportedly friction with Commissioner Fish about the man's departure. And when we live in a world where these decisions are made by five people who have salaries of $100,000 a year, speaking of yourselves,
 To some important residents, that seems like a lot of money. And then we find out, wow, to make the sewage go away, we have to pay somebody twice as much as the mayor. And situations develop where they get $50,000 in special severance. But I think when you look at a 20-year career and the fact that the friction between his overseeing commissioners, just a temporary issue, these are costs of doing business. And they're easier to swallow on days when we see you
 finding the money to work with CHOIN. And when it's been pointed out that Commissioner Schaltzman, who many of us think is sometimes being too pro-business, is honest and sincere enough to say, there's a supply problem, we have to make housing. So without talking to the latest concerns about
 the budget overruns. I do want to say if we have massive 300% budget overruns or 200% budget overruns, I hope they always happen in providing homelessness to houseless and underhoused people in the future instead of the Bureau of Environmental Services. These severance payments are part of doing business and I hope they're just kept in mind that when it comes time to
 look at surpluses just when the budget goes well that we try and match these funds to really serve the most needy people and consider having better options for people who are stacked up on the streets for everybody to see because we're not as good as we think we are. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Walsh? My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. When I saw this item,
 The first thought that I had was, okay, we've got to get rid of this guy. Fine. It's going to cost us $50,000 to get rid of him. He was involved in the Taj Mahal, this little building that started with $3 million and ended up $12 million, if I'm correct.
 So we got rid of him. And part of the package is that he's going to get $50,000. And we also have to pay the legal fees of the outside counsel who investigated this case. And I don't know how much that is, but it's usually $350 an hour. And knowing lawyers, it's probably $35,000, $50,000 there. It's sad that we have to do this. Really sad. It's sad.
 This man is being rewarded for what some people think is fraud. And that's our system anymore. People seem to get rewarded for...
 when they commit fraud and they lie. Joe, that is totally inappropriate. Totally inappropriate. You cannot make comments. You cannot malign and defame someone without evidence, and it's totally inappropriate for you to say that. And for you of all people that insist on basic fairness. What did I say that maligned this man? Making a criminal accusation. Making accusations about his conduct
 that you have no basis to make, and including fraud, which is a crime. And that you of all people... Isn't there an ongoing criminal investigation on this item? No, there is not. In what your paperwork says, yes, there is. That he is going to help find out exactly what happened with the contractors...
 and why it was over-budgeted three times the amount of money, and some people, like me, think that's fraud. Okay, you're entitled to your opinion, but there is no basis currently. Please don't interrupt my three minutes. There is no basis currently to say that. Please don't interrupt my three minutes. I'm entitled to that by the Charter, not you. You'll get your three minutes, but if you make outrageous charges about somebody. What's the outrageous charge? We've addressed that. Please move on.
 It is sad to do this. This man has a 20-year longevity working for the city. I give him granted for that. It doesn't make any difference. We just had a governor that went to prison, and we had official after official after official going before the judge and saying how wonderful this man is, and this man should have gotten 10 years. He ended up getting two years. This is the same kind of thinking. We cannot reward people that do this stuff.
 We should fight it. You guys fight the weirdest appeals, but you won't fight this one. And this is a good fight. You could win this fight because he's wrong. When you put somebody on leave with pay, there is no option to come back and say you're punishing them because you're not. You're not taking anything away from them. And most of the courts agree with that. So you could have won this one.
 But you want to appeal Judge Simon's decision, and you're going to lose that one and look like idiots. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? And I hope I didn't defame you, Mayor. Good morning. Welcome. Morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Mike Howe. I'm here today representing myself as a citizen of the city of Portland. And somebody who's worked with you, with city staff, for the last...
 years or so. Twenty years ago, I sat on the advisory committee, the hiring committee that interviewed applicants to become the next director of the Bureau of Environmental Services. And I didn't intend to testify today. I came down only because something like what we just heard might occur. I'm here to tell you that Dean Marriott was heads above every other candidate for that position. And I have to say that we're not
 Regardless of the auditor report, regardless of the wastewater treatment center, I think we need to think in terms of what I've referred to a couple of you regarding proportionality.
 Dean Marriott was at the helm of BES as the city of Portland became the premier stormwater management agency and watershed health agency in the country. And I just say that Dean can walk away from the city of Portland with his head held very high. And I only hope that we get somebody to replace him that will take the Bureau into the next round.
 era of Integrating gray and green infrastructure and improving watershed health throughout the city. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much anyone else discussion roll call Fritz well, thanks for that testimony and to Dean Marriott for having turned the ship from the direction with where it used to be going and getting the big pipe project done on time and under budget and indeed I
 putting the environmental part into environmental services. Thanks to Commissioner Fish for working on this settlement. Fish? With this action, Mayor, we will launch a national search for Dean Marriott's replacement. Mike Hout's testimony reminds us that we'll be looking for a unique person that understands that a modern
 sewer and stormwater bureau leader understands the value of what we call green infrastructure, which is not only good for rate payers, but it's good for the environment. So we will launch that search. I've also asked the outside law firm that we retain to do an investigation to change course.
 Now that Dean has decided to move on, what we're going to ask them to do is give us a report with some lessons learned and some counsel as to how we might improve our overall performance on contracting going forward, which I think would be of great value to the council. Dean Marriott has served this city for over 20 years. We wish him well as he moves forward.
 and i think the resolution of this matter is reasonable and honorable and frankly is in the best interest of the city and my rate payers and i'm pleased to vote aye seltzman well i had the privilege of being the commissioner in charge of the bureau of environmental services for 11 years working with dean marriott that entire time and i really want to thank dean for his tremendous accomplishments as has been noted
 uh, Portland's largest public works project ever. The big pipe project, which was more than just a big pipe. It was also investments in green infrastructure. That project $1.4 billion brought in on time and on budget. We need only look North to Seattle to see the struggles that they're having, trying to get their big pipe built to realize what an accomplishment that was for city of Portland and for its rate payers. Dean, uh,
 thoroughly embodied the spirit and the mission of the Bureau of Environmental Services. He helped to shape that spirit and body of environmental services, setting it on a good path of not only doing the gray investments, the pipes and the pump stations, but also the swales and the eco roofs and all the other things that we rely on to manage stormwater successfully in our city. So I had a great privilege to work with Dean, and I just want to wish him very well in his future and his next endeavor.
 Novick? Thank you, Mr. Houck, for your testimony. Thanks to Mr. Marriott for his service. On a lighter note, Commissioner Fish, I do want to state that if you can find somebody to head the Bureau named Ed Norton, that would be ideal. Aye. Aye.
 Hales. The responsible solution. This is a good man who's done good work for this community, and I appreciate his service. I've had a chance to tell him that in writing. I'll have a chance to tell him that personally. And this is a chance for our council to do what we've done today, and that is do the right thing for a manager who's served us very well and who's moving on, and we thank him. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to the regular agenda. Thank you.
 Item number 30, apply for and accept a grant in the amount of $42,000 from the Oregon Department of Transportation and appropriate $38,000 for overtime reimbursement for the fiscal year 2014-15 Safety Belt Grant Program. Why don't you read 31 also?
 Accept a grant in the amount of $12,000 from the Oregon Department of Transportation and appropriate $10,000 for overtime reimbursement for enhanced speed enforcement at top speed involved crash locations within the city during federal fiscal year 2014-2015. Okay, Sergeant Barton's here to explain these two items to us. Take any questions for the Bureau?
 morning council sergeant brett barnum with the traffic division on item 30 the portland police bureau traffic division has been involved with the safety belt grant for over 15 years now i was a grant manager of this grant for quite some time we are now the number two state in the nation for seatbelt usage so i think that's a real reflection on the good use of this grant funds spending it correctly and working uh high traffic
 corridor or high crash corridor areas to just reinstill the to the community uh through not not just citations but warnings uh that safety belt use is important uh in our state and it does provide a significant uh reduction in serious injuries and fatalities when our community members are wearing their safety belt properly okay questions about this one and then um
 Second one. On the speed grant, this is Sergeant Gunderson's grant. He was not able to make it. He had a family illness. So in reading some of his notes for the speed grant, the use of the grant funds allows for this last year, it allowed for a total of over 1,000 contacts, and this is on ODOT.
 state highway properties. So I-5, I-405, our other state highways, Highway 43 that are within the city, Highway 99, in
 in 2014 we had a 44 reduction in fatalities on these state highways within our city limits we also had a 14 reduction in injury crashes and a three percent reduction in non-injury crashes so all the way around it is uh proving our visible presence out there uh providing not only citations but also warnings uh to our motoring public in the city that we are reducing the number of fatalities and serious injury crashes to our citizens and our community members
 Thank you. Now there were some questions before, Commissioner Fritz-Smith, about overtime, and I think that's being reviewed by the Bureau about the balance of using full-time additional personnel versus overtime, still part of the staffing study work, I assume. Thank you.
 Yes, as far as I know. Both these grants, the Safety Belt grant, will provide for just 150 hours in the whole year. So it's not a tremendous amount of overtime, but it does provide us some time. 150 hours is really a minimal amount of overtime when you factor it out over the course of 12 months. And then the Speed grant this year is a very minimal amount. It's, I believe, 10,000. Mm-hmm.
 And they'll add a – they'll carry over 2,000 from last year. So that's even a considerable less amount of hours. The hours when they're worked, they're done in a four-hour increment, so it doesn't tax any one individual in a four-hour shift period. So with that, we try and keep our officers fresh, available for the day-to-day duties as well. Would we be allowed to use the funds for straight time rather than overtime? No.
 We also work these grants, we're part of these grants. We do work straight time in these specific areas, and that's a part of the rules of the grant in order to, especially the speed grant, I know for certain that we have to work some straight time hours, some regular duty hours in these areas that we work on overtime. But would we, in this one, would we be allowed to use the $38,000 for straight time rather than overtime? Under the terms of the grant, you mean? Yes. No. No.
 So that's an issue I think perhaps we should add to our state legislative agenda.
 Having worked in nursing where people do a lot of overtime too and becoming concerned about sometimes my colleagues would be working so many extra hours that I wasn't entirely sure that they were going to be safe. Same for our police officers. I mean, obviously this is a fairly small amount, but we do keep getting these grants that are always for overtime, and I think maybe we should address that with our state legislative delegation that if there's enough work to...
 Maybe, calling together all of these grants, maybe the state should be funding police positions dedicated to these particular purposes. Thank you for your answers. I appreciate it. Sure. Other questions for Sergeant Barton? Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on these items? If not, then we'll take a roll call on the first.
 Well, there are also some incentives to using your seatbelt and going the speed limit. And I want folks to know that that is the case also and that it can, when there is a crash, that it's comforting when your loved one has been wearing his seatbelt, which we then got additional accidental death insurance coverage for, which I didn't know. And I appreciate the work that the officers do to make sure that people are wearing their seatbelts and driving the speed limit. I appreciate it.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. It is something to be proud of that we are number two in the country and the state in seat bill compliance and really appreciate the work that you do. And this is money that we put to good use. Aye. Aye.
 Hales. I appreciate Sergeant Barton being here and the fact that he just mentioned this in passing, that our practice is often to give people warnings for this kind of violation or for trying to text or use your cell phone while driving, which is illegal. And the point of those encounters is to get the public involved.
 to do what they should be doing the right way. And obviously that's starting to show up in the numbers, and that's a great trend. Enforcement has its place, so does that relationship where an officer is reminding people to do the right thing. So I appreciate that we're always trying to strike that balance out there on the streets when we're encountering motorists. Thank you. Hi. Hi.
 And 31. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Item 32. Authorize a competitive solicitation for an on-body camera system for police officers.
 It's my plan to refer this back to my office for some additional community input about available technology and policy. As you may recall, we had a presentation here about this last month, and we have conducted the request for information. They're still compiling the results of that request for information and are looking at the idea of a pilot test.
 So it's appropriate to take a little more time to actually seek RFPs. We have the funds available. We know they're not sufficient to do everything we need to do with on-body cameras, but it's appropriate that we do this the right way. Obviously, there's legislative work to be done as well in making sure that we can use the data and safeguard the data that we obtain through using body cameras. So if there's not objection, it's my intention to return this item to my office.
 And we'll do that and bring it back at the right time. Thank you. Item 33.
 Accept bid of James W. Fowler Company for the Fulton Pump Station Replacement Project for $10,554,563. Ms. Moody. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. You have before you, Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to James W. Fowler. And the original engineer's estimate on this project was $9.6 million.
 On November 4th, 2014, eight bids were received and J.W. Fowler is the low bidder at $10,554,563. The Portland Water Bureau has reviewed all bid items and believes the price offered is good.
 The city identified 20 divisions of work for potential minority women and emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. Subcontracting participation on this project is at 20.7% in the areas of concrete flat work, irrigation, traffic control, trucking, and eco-roof. I will turn this back over to council if you have any questions. Christine, I have a couple. I see that the project estimate was moderate.
 And the low bid was, what, about 10 percent above the estimate. Is this further evidence of a robust market now for construction and prices going up at the other end of the spectrum where we saw –
 better prices during the recession we're now seeing because of all the construction um the reverse effect uh yes commissioner i believe so there was also eight bidders on this project so um that's why the water bureau believes that this is a is a really good bid
 How many bidders? I'm sorry? Eight. Eight. Okay. So the fact that there were eight different people competing means we are reasonably confident that we got a good price. We're getting a good price, yeah. Any guidance for us or me as the commissioner in charge in terms of the project construction estimate? Is there anything we need to do differently going forward in light of what appears to be a construction boom and rising prices? No.
 Well, we have been meeting internally as far as in the construction bureaus have all met and they're working on updating their pricing more frequently so that as the estimates come before council, they'll be as accurate as they can at that time. Understanding that the authorizing ordinance is generally six months before I'm back here with the contract award. Well, the mayor has raised this a couple times in the past about just making sure that our
 linked to the current market conditions. And it seems like there's a crane on every corner of the city. So we're obviously in a different contracting environment. We're not getting – we continue to get good interest rates on our debt, but we're not getting the same prices in our competitive process, and that's because –
 there's a lot of work in the pipeline. That's a good thing. But thank you for working with the bureaus to sort of update their assumptions so that there's even a closer alignment between our estimates and the actual data. Other questions? Christine? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, motion to adopt the report. Second. Discussion? Roll call. Fritz? Well, it's good to see the subcontracting going for hefty things like roofing and concrete flat work and such.
 Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Thank you, Christine. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Thank you, Christine. Aye. Hales.
 Commissioner Fish, when I was running for office in 2012, there were two cranes on the horizon in Portland. They were both for public works projects, and now I think you're right. There's something like 17. I've taken personal credit for that change, of course. It had nothing to do with the larger economy, but it certainly has had something to do with our bid prices, and we're going to be dealing with that for the foreseeable future. So thank you. Aye. I see you're channeling Al Gore. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, you invented the Internet. I'm responsible for all those cranes. Okay. Let's move on.
 Wait a minute. Al Gore really did have a lot to do with the events. That's right. Yeah. No good deed goes unpunished in our business. All right. Next one, please. Item 34, amend contract with Nat McDougal Company for additional compensation to resolve final contract claim for the Giles Lake Pump Station Improvements Project number E08877 for $661,902. Second reading and roll call. Fritz? Aye. Aye.
 I want to thank Mark Hutchinson and the whole team for their presentation. Perhaps the greatest compliment that I've received during my tenure at BES is that Commissioner Fritz recently told me that we might actually be overdoing it on some of these presentations.
 The goal, of course, is move them from consent to the regular agenda, make sure that the council has all the necessary information to make an informed judgment. It's a work in progress, but I'm very proud of the way BES and its senior team has embraced this new approach. And I do think while they sometimes are technical and tedious in nature, I do think the council is getting a lot of good information upon which they can make an informed decision in it.
 I thank my colleagues for pushing us in that direction. Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Aye.
 Next. Item 35, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Tualatin Valley Water District and the City of Tualatin in the amount of $300,000 for construction of a new piping and meter on the Washington County supply line. Also, second reading item, roll call, please. Fritz. An important clarification, Commissioner Fischer. I found the presentations very interesting. And it's good that, you know, there's folks toiling away on items like this
 every day in the city, and they do good work. And it's been good to see some folks before us that haven't otherwise had the opportunity to present about their work, and they're obviously so proud of what they do and work really hard for the citizens of Portland and the ratepayers. So thank you for doing these presentations. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Number 36. Aye.
 direct the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services to research and report to Council on the feasibility of applying a local income tax to income earned in Portland by individuals who are not Portland residents. I've got a request from Commissioner Novick to reschedule this item to January 8th at 6 p.m. Is that correct? That's correct. Unless there's objection, so ordered. 37th.
 37 authorized contracts as required with 15 technical and expert service firms for on-call architecture and engineering services in support of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, this contract for 15 on-call architectural and engineering services originally came before Council on September 10, 2014, and was referred back to my office to respond to Council questions regarding MWESP participation.
 My office with the assistance of PBOT issued a clarified memo to council offices on December 23rd and once more on January 6th.
 which sought to address previous questions regarding MWESB participation and outreach. This information is reflected in the impact statement of this ordinance. Andrew Carlstrom from PBOT is here with us today to give an overview of the purpose of this contract, what kind of outreach PBOT directed above standard procurement requirements, the level of MWESB participation, and potential next steps for PBOT to improve MWESB participation and selection. Andrew. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Hales and City Commissioners. Andrew Carlstrom, Portland Bureau of Transportation.
 The purpose of this ordinance is to provide PBOT with on-call architectural and engineering services in nine service areas, nine service areas ranging from landscape architecture to traffic engineering. This on-call capacity is needed because transportation project needs generally include work with short deadlines, scopes that may need to be developed quickly, and or require expertise that PBOT does not have in-house.
 If you approve this ordinance today, PBOT will have the ability to execute task orders as needed for projects with the selected prime contractors in these nine service areas. Council questions in September focused on MWESB utilization, and PBOT appreciated the opportunity to provide you clarifying information, both in the impact statement and in the memo you received from Commissioner Novick in December.
 It should be noted that the MWESB contract considerations were only within one criteria selection category for this qualifications-based proposal evaluation. In addition, the selection process included one minority evaluation program representative on each of the nine selection committees.
 And although one of the 15 selected prime contractors was an MWESB firm, when considering all of the subcontractors identified by successful proposers, the total utilization by dollars would have been 25.3% if all contracts, contract authorities, and identified subcontractors were utilized as stated on PTE disclosure forms. This equates to $462,000 out of $1.825 million. Okay.
 31 of the 40 disclosed subcontractors are MWESB firms. PBOT conducted extensive outreach for this solicitation, which procurement services recognized, and both PBOT and procurement services do not have any information that would lead to a conclusion that redoing this solicitation would increase the overall MWESB utilization percentage. Thank you.
 PBOT appreciates Council questions which have encouraged additional introspection and review of how solicitations are conducted. And internally, the Bureau is currently reviewing its outreach efforts, determining where additional work can be done, and is developing a new comprehensive MWESB outreach plan with the goal of ensuring maximum MWESB participation with both prime and subcontractors for Bureau solicitations.
 In addition to the external focus, PBOT intends to increase internal training for PBOT staff, to analyze utilization, and to collaborate with other city bureaus to share best practices, outreach strategies, and shared outreach opportunities. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Questions for Andrew? Thanks very much. This is an emergency ordinance, so we'll take a roll call, please. Is there any testimony? I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't ask for that. Didn't see anyone. Does anyone want to speak? Okay, now roll call.
 Fritz well, thank you for the additional work on this and for that briefing that I received it was very helpful. I fish Saltzman yes, thank you for the additional work. You did appreciate it. I know Vic I hails much All right item number 38 amend code regarding publication boxes second reading and a roll call vote, please Fritz I fish Saltzman I know Vic I hails little piece of progress. All right
 And thanks very much to our citizens who got this going and kept it going and congratulations. Yeah, good work Okay, item number 39 approved use of the Portland Bureau of Transportation's rulemaking authority for modifications to TRN 10.19 for regulation of above-ground structures Mr. Novick
 Colleagues, we're prepared today to address several questions that came up in the first hearing on this matter. One thing I've been informed is that Mary Beth, there was a question about noise from utility cabinets. Mary Beth Henry contacted Kansas City officials to confirm that the Google utility cabinets, at least, don't seem to make noise and the city hasn't received complaints about their aesthetics. Okay.
 And Alex Bejarano is going to address the questions that came up about art wraps. And Kyle Chizik is here to talk about additional outreach that's been done in the last couple of weeks. Alex, do you want to take it away? Sure. I think we're going to start with actual Kyle with the presentation and then I'll chime in.
 So, Kyle Chizik with the Bureau of Transportation. So, to recap, these above-ground structures are utility cabinets in the right-of-way. They're primarily electrical and are hardwired facilities.
 Our current policy, we do allow them by exception, and we have some from BES, Water Bureau, Northwest Natural, and quite a few from transportation for our signals and street lighting equipment.
 At our public hearing in December, some questions came up about the art wrap. We had also some questions about certain design districts, specifically Terwilliger Parkway. We did some research. We did some rethinking.
 At this point, we're proposing that the art wrap is no longer mandated, that the cabinets will be either stainless steel or painted in a neutral color. As a consequence of that, there won't be a renewal fee because you won't need to rewrap a cabinet.
 Inspections will be complaint-driven, so if something gets tagged, we'll give the utility 48 hours to basically rectify that or resolve the graffiti issue.
 For Terwilliger Parkway specifically, in acknowledging it's a scenic corridor, it has design standards, however, utilities are exempted from that. We're going to take the approach that we're going to treat it like a design district.
 So for historic districts and for design districts, we're going to work with the Design Commission and the Landmarks Commission to come up with specific standards for those districts. That Terwilliger Parkway, we will also treat that way. So Design Commission will weigh in on what standards need to be applied for these cabinets.
 And then our next steps are going to the Design and Historic Commission. And we would, if council approves, propose to file the rule for adoption as well. So that generally with the auditor's office takes a few weeks for that to occur. As far as our timeline for our process, we're going to be doing a lot of
 We sent out the notification in October to neighborhood associations. We coordinated with ONI and that's how we made contact with the neighborhood associations, district coalitions, and then our utilities through our utility notification system.
 At the request of several of our neighborhood groups, we kept the comment period open. They rightly said, you know, this isn't enough time. We missed our monthly meeting on October. We're not going to take this up again until later, so can you keep the comment period open? We kept it open until the public hearing, and then at the public hearing,
 After that had had the item had been continued. We kept it open We have not received any new comments. So basically we're dealing with their remaining comments and the feedback from City Council at At the last council hearing questions. I don't have a revised exhibit a is there one? the exhibit we
 We don't have a revised Exhibit A. The exhibit was as an example of what the proposed rule, but we would take the council feedback when we are adopting the rule as the Bureau and the legislative intent to make those changes. So the public wasn't notified that there's a revised exhibit?
 So I don't know if we're going to have any testimony today, but I'm not comfortable voting for something that's not what we're going to be doing. So I'd prefer to see a revised exhibit that has those changes that you outlined in it and have that available for public comment so that they know they can tell us, yes, they got it right, no, they didn't. Okay. Thank you, Commissioner. I should have thought of that. Other questions or concerns? No.
 So what is the expected timeline for the Design Commission and the Historic Landmarks Commission to take action? When we spoke with BDS staff, they were anticipating in February that we could be an item on the agenda. Does that mean they would actually complete action by February? I believe so. We'll be working with BDS staff to create the standards of what –
 needs to apply to these cabinets in that time frame. So the final rule we can expect sometime in February or March? Yes. And that comes back to council? If council isn't comfortable voting on the resolution, we will come back to council with the revised exhibit. But –
 The current rule, TRN 10.19, was promulgated with Bureau's rulemaking authority.
 So in an effort to be transparent and to get the broadest input possible, that's why we brought it to council, but we would file that with the auditor directly. Well, I think it's evidence that we did get testimony on it and that it is a policy decision about things in the right of way that probably council should weigh in on. Rather than holding up your process for an amended version to come back next week, maybe it would be best if you continue as you did.
 you just outlined, but then bring the final rule back to council. Okay, good. That's where I was kind of drove. Yeah, they can go ahead and go to the Landmarks Design Commission and get that guidance, because it also might change what's in front of us. Exactly. Okay. So is that going to work? So then, therefore, do we need to act on the resolution in order to send you off to the Design Commission, or are you free to do that without...
 final action on the resolution. I think we're free to move forward. Yeah, so I think you're free to go get their direction and come back to us with a final version after that, rather than...
 this order. Okay. Does that work? Thank you. Okay. Thank you. So we'll very much appreciate you bringing this to council. It's the kind of policy decision that the public likes to weigh in on it in a very public way and that I do certainly as a council member. So thank you. As a member of the public. Yeah. So is there anyone who came to speak about this item today? If not, then I'm going to set it. Well, there's actually a resolution on the table, but we're going to not take action on it today.
 Right, right. That's what we're going to try to fix. So if there's no objection, then I'm going to return this to your office because then you'll set the timetable for when the amended resolution and exhibit come back to us. Does that work? Okay, so we'll return this to Mr. Novick's office. Thank you for your work. And we are recessed until 2 p.m. I think so. Maybe not this afternoon. Stan, coming back? Okay, it's...
 City Council. My invitation got lost in the mail. Mayor? There you go. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome back to the afternoon session, City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Here. Hales? Here. And would you please read the two items? Yes.
 Item 40, authorize a contract with Dr. Dennis Rosenbaum through Rosenbaum and Watson LLP to serve at the independent compliance officer and community liaison for the Department of Justice settlement agreement and amend the fiscal year 2014-15 budget to reallocate funding.
 41 amend the fiscal year 2014-15 budget to include appropriation authority for additional expenses related to the United States Department of Justice settlement agreement regarding police practices okay thank you this is very important step in our agreement with the United States Department of Justice about how we change practices in the Portland Police Bureau we've gone through
 very detailed process to get to this point and to have a proposed contractor as our Compliance officer community liaison, so I'm going to call up a panel to present the package to us Alan Osnak from the city attorney's office Judy prosper from the same and Deanna Wesson Mitchell from my staff And we'll have them present the substance of this and then we have some amendments on that
 rather technical matters, but they're changing dollar amounts within the proposed contract, and we'll take public testimony. So if you three would please come up. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Deputy City Attorney Judy Prosper, and it's my privilege to be here before you again with my colleague Ellen Osnak and Deanna Wesson-Mitchell this afternoon.
 As you directed in Ordinance 37093, passed on November 11, 2014, we have together with Christine Moody, the City Chief Procurement Officer, negotiated a contract with Dr. Rosenbaum's team to serve as Community Liaison and Compliance Officer under COCO, under the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement. We are here today to present this contract to you for your approval.
 Before I begin, I would like to clear up a few technical points. That is, what is before you today is a slightly different version from what was filed on December 31st by the city attorney's office. The changes are minor but necessary. On the ordinance itself, on the second page, there was a typo in the total not to exceed amount for the five-year contract.
 It read $1,575 instead of $1,575,000. And here we are. Yes. Sorry. That changes on the second to the last line of the now therefore clause in Section A. There's another correction in Item 41, right? I believe so. And my colleague, Ellen, will address that. Okay.
 In Exhibit 1 to the ordinance, the actual contract itself on page 6 of 11, the final paragraph in the Statement of Work, General Responsibilities, and Payment Schedule section, we made a clarification about the required presence of either Dr. Rosenbaum or Dr. Watson at each of the quarterly town hall meetings convened by the COCL. You'll see that change in the last sentence of the last paragraph.
 Instead of, Justice DeMuniz will chair the quarterly meetings of the COAB, it will now read, Justice DeMuniz will chair and preside over the quarterly meetings of the Community Oversight Advisory Board, COAB.
 Either Dr. Rosenbaum or Dr. Watson will attend the COCL's quarterly open town hall meetings to present the draft compliance reports to the COAB and to receive public comment on the assessments of compliance and recommendations as provided by the settlement agreement. Thank you. Those are the only two changes to this item. So now on to the substance of the contract. Thank you.
 Recalling that on December 17, 2012, the City of Portland and the United States Department of Justice filed a proposed settlement agreement in USV City of Portland. On January 30, 2014, the City issued a request for resumes seeking a COCO pursuant to that agreement. Dr. Dennis Rosenbaum submitted an application in February of 2014, and his team was chosen by Council to serve. This contract will be between the City of Portland and Rosenbaum & Watson LLP.
 The city's project manager for the contract is Deanna Wesson-Mitchell, and she will review and approve the invoices submitted by the group. Pending your approval today, we intend the contract to be effective on January 10, 2015, and expire in five years on January 10, 2020, unless otherwise terminated or extended. Who's on the COCL team? Me.
 Dr. Dennis Rosenbaum is a full professor of criminology, law and justice, and the director of the Center for Research in Law and Justice at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He will serve as the compliance officer and community liaison. Dr. Amy Watson is an associate professor at the Jane Addams College of Social Work at the University of Illinois at Chicago. She will be the co-director and mental health specialist.
 The Honorable Paul DeMunez, a retired Chief Justice of the Oregon Supreme Court and distinguished jurist in residence at Willamette University College of Law, will serve as the Director of Community Engagement. Mr. Thomas Kristof, Doctoral Candidate in Criminology, Law, and Justice at the University of Illinois at Chicago, will serve as Project Manager and Data Collector. Dr. Jeff Alpert, Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice at the University of South Carolina, will serve as a Policy Advisor. Compensation
 The maximum annual sum to be paid on the contract is $315,000. A note here about the seeming rise in the cost of the contract. When Dr. Rosenbaum bid for the contract, he fully intended to be able to complete the work outlined in the settlement agreement for $240,000 per year. Thank you.
 As interviews and negotiations progressed, the Portland community and the city recognized that the community liaison duties of the COCL would need to be more robust than previously anticipated. The city is very fortunate that Dr. Rosenbaum was able to convince the Chief Justice to join the COCL team and to lead and enhance the community engagement and local presence efforts.
 For the sake of easier accounting and reimbursement purposes, we merely separated the actual services for the various team members from reimbursable travel expenses. COCL team members, including the Chief Justice, will receive payment of $240,000 for their professional services, and up to $75,000 may be reimbursed for documented travel expenses for the maximum total of $315,000.
 Reimbursement expenses will be based on the U.S. General Services Administration per diem rates, which can be accessed on the GSA website. These are the same rates as allowed for city employees. Hourly rates are not applicable to this contract, as it is a negotiated fixed fee that will be paid out in equal monthly increments. Early termination of the contract.
 In order for the COCL team to maintain its utmost independence, the contract cannot easily be terminated by the city. We remove the standard termination for, quote, convenience clause that is present in most contracts. The city cannot merely terminate the contract if it is unhappy with the results of the COCL team's analysis or recommendations. There are only a few discrete number of ways that the contract may be terminated. General responsibilities of the COCL team include
 Aside from general contract terms, the responsibilities of the COCL team boil down to four major categories, which are highlighted in the contract. One, the requirements of the settlement agreement. The COCL is responsible for synthesizing data related to Portland Police Bureau's use of force. We'll report and be responsive to the City Council, DOJ, and the public. We'll gather input from the public related to PPB's compliance with the settlement agreement.
 COCL team members will not be attached to any one city office and will be wholly independent of PPB. In sum, the COCL team must comply with any requirements of the settlement agreement, which specifically reference work to be done by the COCL. Number two, court appearances. The settlement agreement does not require the COCL to attend any court proceedings. The city, however, is currently required by the court to direct the COCL to attend court appearances. Number three, the COCL team must comply with any requirements of the settlement agreement.
 The frequency and scope of any such court appearances are not yet determined, and the City is presently unable to accurately predict the scope of work that may be required of the COCL. We have added a provision that states that if the COCL is required to appear in court more than once per calendar year, those additional appearances are outside the scope of the work and compensation under this contract and will be separately negotiated. Number three, community engagement and local presence.
 As previously mentioned, a high level of in-person service to the public and the city is necessary for the success of this endeavor. Toward that end, Justice DeMuniz will, for the first six months of the contract, dedicate two to three days per week for community engagement. And thereafter, he'll dedicate at least one day per week.
 Justice Demunas will chair and preside over the COAB. Those meetings must happen at least quarterly, and once the COAB is seated, specific scheduling decisions will be made by that body together with the COPL team. Dr. Rosenbaum and or Dr. Watson will hold in-person meetings every month with relevant stakeholders and will maintain weekly contact throughout the contract.
 Either Dr. Rosenbaum or Dr. Watson must attend the COCL's quarterly open town hall meetings to present the draft compliance reports to the COAB and to receive public comment. Number four, the work plan. The COCL team will provide a first-year draft work plan no later than January 31, 2015, recognizing that once the COAB is seated, adjustments may need to be made to this plan.
 These are the basic provisions of the contract. We hope it complies with your expectations and that you will approve it today. Ellen, Christine, and I will be glad to answer any questions you have. Thank you for your attention and consideration. Thank you. Questions? Just to reemphasize, you said that the contract does include one trip per year to go to Judge Simon at his behest. Yes.
 Yes, Commissioner. One per year. If there are in excess of one, we would negotiate for those. The expectation is that if the judge requires more than that, then we would pay more, but we would expect the COCL to come as often as the judge wants him to? As often as he's able. Yes. Absolutely. Then do you need us to move those amendments? Please. Before we take public testimony, we should.
 So you want to do that now? Okay. Do I hear a motion to put the amendments in force? I move the amendments as outlined by our deputy city attorney. Is there a second? Second. Further discussion on adopting those amendments so that we can hear public testimony on those as well? Then roll call on the amendments. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Done. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 good afternoon i'm ellen osnak i'm a deputy city attorney in your city attorney's office and i'm here today to talk about item 41 which is an ordinance that allocates uh 250 000 for additional expenses that the city anticipates to incur related to the community oversight advisory board as well as administrative support for the community officer and i mean compliance officer and community liaison which is the cocol
 So the settlement agreement that we have with the Department of Justice requires us to provide administrative support for both the compliance officer and community liaison, the COCL, as well as the community oversight and advisory board, or the COAB. So during our negotiations with the COCL team, they identified some critical elements of administrative support for their work. I'd like to pause here to...
 observe that the COCL team has been fairly extraordinary already in their efforts to engage the community. This contract has not yet been entered, but in order to do outreach, Justice DeMunas has spent over nine days here in Portland attending various community meetings. The entire COCL team flew out to Portland today.
 and several weeks ago and they also met with numerous stakeholders including members of council members of the community members at the police bureau and based on all of those conversations they identified what they thought were some critical administrative support not only for the coquel team but what they anticipated might be some of the needs of the community oversight and advisory board and so the ordinance before you today that allocates money
 is to address some of that input that they received from the community. So some of the elements that they identified included staffing for their own work, office space, website development and hosting, conference calling services, photocopies, and other basic supplies and equipment. So the city has been moving forward with selecting members for the Community Oversight and Advisory Board, or COAB. Those efforts are being led by Commissioner Fritz as well as Mayor Hales.
 And so for context here, the COAB is a group of individuals who will work with the COCL to monitor implementation of the settlement agreement. And the city is currently accepting applications. If you are interested in applying, you can Google COAB application, or you can go to the website of Commissioner Fritz or the website of Mayor Hales, and you'll find applications there. And the deadline is this Friday, so do it today. Yes. All right.
 So, as I mentioned, the city is required to provide administrative support for the COAB. And Justice DeMuna's identified website development and hosting, as well as recording of those meetings, as critical services that he thinks that the COAB should provide. The current expectation is that the COAB will have its first meeting on February 9th.
 Not to discourage people, and in fact, many people have already applied to be part of this important public service, but there is a tremendous amount of work that the COAB will need to get done in its first three months. I'll just highlight what they have to accomplish no later than mid-May of this year. They are required to hold two hearings to gather public input about the status of the Police Bureau's current community outreach efforts.
 They need to create a process for receiving and passing on to the COCL public comments on the COCL's first report, which will assess the city's implementation of the settlement agreement. They need to attend a town hall to discuss the COCL's first report. They need to draft their own feedback regarding the report. And finally, they need to consult with the city regarding a survey of the community about their experiences and perceptions of police outreach and accountability. Thank you.
 So, given the amount of work that the COAB must accomplish in this very tight timeline, we can reasonably anticipate significant startup costs, although it is difficult to be precise at this point about exact expenditures. The ordinance before you allocates a total of $250,000 from contingency to cover the administrative costs identified by the COCL, as well as the anticipated costs associated with the COAB.
 $45,000 of the funds will be allocated to the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to fund through July 1st a staff person whose job it is to provide administrative services to the COCL team. For example, this person would be expected to make travel arrangements for the COCL team, prepare invoices and correspondence, schedule meetings, respond to inquiries, make copies, and manage website content. Okay.
 Council previously allocated money for a separate administrative support for the COAB, as we are required to do by the settlement agreement. So that person will be a mental health specialist whose job it is to provide administrative support for the COAB and to broadly facilitate civic participation of people with lived experience of mental illness in the implementation of the settlement agreement. The city is currently accepting job applications for the mental health specialist position. Okay.
 Both the mental health specialist position as well as the COCL staff support position that is before you in the ordinance today will be assigned to the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. We expect that they will work closely together to support the work of the COCL and COAB.
 Deanna Wesson Mitchell has more details on the uses to which the remaining $205,000 that you are allocating today will be put. And I will pause at this moment to now offer an amendment because there is yet another error in the numbers that we put in there. And in fact, I believe the original ordinance listed $215,000 to be allocated for expenses
 when the amount should be $205,000, which added to $45,000 equals $250,000. So I'm available to answer any questions. Thank you. So a motion to adopt that amendment as well? So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? Roll call on amending the dollar amount to $205,000.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, thank you. I have a couple questions, but should we wait until the whole panel is finished and then come with questions? Either way. Go ahead. Go ahead. Yeah. I'll hold until all three of us are finished. Okay, Deanna's got a few more points to make while we do that. We complete the presentation and we'll finish.
 Deanna Wesson-Mitchell with policy director with the mayor's office. And Ellen and Judy have talked about most of the things I had to talk about, but just kind of clarifying that the office space is they've selected to be a Rosewood initiative at 162nd and Stark. It is a facility that's open to the community that has, they're already involving the COCL in their community outreach out there.
 And the extra money is going to pay for office space lease, setting up the cubes, computers, phone lines, meeting facility, meeting facilitation location. If there's costs for that justice to Muniz has requested that really wants all of the meetings to be televised. So making sure that those costs are covered if we can have a,
 There's just a lot of details that are going to be need to be paid for. So that's kind of where that money is going to be used. It's all we really want to do everything that we can to make sure they have all they need to be successful. And we assume that by the end of this budget year we'll have a much better idea of what those regular costs will be beyond just getting the startup fees done. Any questions? Thank you. Two questions. First is,
 on the legal issue of the termination of the contract of the COCL.
 To what extent does the COAB have any authority on this issue? So I last week nominated Abel Gordley as my representative, as my candidate. So the board is composed, and after year one, the COAB says, we don't like the job that the COCL is doing. So under the proposed contract, how would we resolve that issue? The –
 Settlement agreement really contemplates a cooperative working relationship between the COCL and COAB. So the settlement agreement itself never included provisions for the removal of the COCL by the COAB. Conversely, however, as the chair of the COAB, the COCL has a
 process that is outlined in the settlement agreement if there is a member of the COAB who either leaves or is removed. There's a process for that. So to answer your question, in terms of terminating the contract, the COAB has
 is a recommending body. So they certainly could recommend that the contract be terminated if they thought that the COCL was failing to perform the duties imposed by the settlement agreement. But they're limited to recommendations. They don't have the power to terminate the contract.
 And second, on the budget side, can you just walk me through what is the pure startup cost and then what do we anticipate will be the ongoing cost? And is it your intention, Mayor, to seek ongoing funding in the normal budget process for a certain number of years to cover this? Second question, yes. Yes on the second question. So after the first year startup cost plus budget, what do you anticipate the number in the out years?
 I really don't. We're looking to see what it's going to cost. I think other committees in the city have, I believe HRC's budget is about $30,000 a year. I mean, each committee has a budget to achieve their goals. We're really going to need to know more what, because the COAB is going to be very much creating what they want to do and figure out what is reasonably needed. Okay.
 to accomplish their goals over longer term. But in any event, we'll take that up in the normal budget cycle. Yeah. We'll have a little more information than we have now. Much more information. We'll have a placeholder number, and you'll be seeking ongoing funding for that. Yes, come the next budget. Okay. Thank you. Other questions for our panel?
 And we may have more later, but thank all three of you. And then I know we have public testimony, but we also have, if there are council questions, Chief Justice DeMunis is here as a representative of the proposed contractor team. And we also have representing the Department of Justice our United States Attorney and members of FIRST staff. I want to give you, Amanda, and your team an opportunity to respond to the efficacy of what we're doing here and the sufficiency of it. So take you first to show you the courtesies.
 properly due to you as a federal official, so thank you for being here.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, members of council. I would like to just make a few brief comments. Initially, I just want to thank the city on my behalf and behalf of the Department of Justice for identifying the compliance officer community liaison and putting forward this contract. It's an important first step in implementing our joint settlement agreement, and so we appreciate your movement on this issue.
 We commit to the citizens of Portland, again, that the United States is dedicated to implementation of this agreement. We will be monitoring the city at every step of the way and holding the city accountable.
 This partnership that we have with the city has been unique. It's something that only exists in the city of Portland, and the collaborative relationship we have had has led us to this settlement agreement and this implementation and will continue going forward so that the city and the Department of Justice can achieve our shared goals.
 I will also want to remind the community that the agreement creates the Community Oversight Advisory Board to inform and advise the City, the United States, and the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition, and Dr. Rosenbaum's team. Applications, as has been mentioned, are available from the City now through Friday, and we encourage members of the community to apply.
 The advisory board will bring the community voices to the center of this discussion and will help inform the progress that we make moving forward. So thank you again for moving forward on this contract today. Thank you. Questions? Thank you so much. Okay. Let's move into public testimony. We have 13 people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Dan Handelman, Jan Friedman, and Joanne Hardesty.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales. I'm Dan Handelman. I'm with Portland Cop Watch, and I have some comments about the contract that is before you. It kind of goes back to the discussions we were having in October when the council was announcing its intent to object to the
 to the judge's court order or asking for your annual appearance. I'm glad that that annual appearance is written into this ordinance, but the implication that the city is currently required to come in on the annual hearing reminds us that you have not yet rescinded your efforts to appeal that. The very minimal review that the judge is going to be making
 giving to you each year and we urge you to rescind that appeal We need to clarify that Dan. We have not appealed the requirement for an annual hearing. We've appealed evidentiary issues beneath that but the requirement to
 appear at an annual hearing is in the agreement. We subscribe to that and every other provision of the agreement. And, in fact, you may have seen our mediation questionnaire that says specifically that we are docketed for a hearing on September 14th of this year at 9 a.m. And the city intends to appear at that hearing.
 So there's no question that we will appear at the annual hearing as required. The only question that's before the mediation panel that's now taking place is the evidentiary question of what evidence has to be presented and how often. Mayor Hales, I'm glad you're mentioning this document because you need to read that last paragraph on the first page, which explicitly questions the judge's authority to order these hearings.
 That's what the city is appealing. Not that hearing. That is what the city is. Additional hearings. Well, that is not what it's questioning. It's questioning whether the judge has the authority to order. We'll get Ms. Osanak up to clarify that later. I mean, my point is that I don't think that's what the city is appealing. That's not what it says. Yes.
 So in that sense, shortly thereafter, the city chose, after community members said, please choose a local person because we need somebody on the ground, we asked you to choose a local person, and we chose this team from Chicago,
 and now you're allocating $75,000 extra to fly them in, which you wouldn't have to pay if you'd chosen somebody local. And $75,000 could pay for an extra investigator in IPR, a staff person for the CRC, or it could fund Portland Cop Watch for 12 years. So that's a lot of money from our point of view to fly people in and out. The implication, or the only...
 mention of the meetings, as your staff just told you, is that there will be quarterly meetings. The COAB, I think everybody's expecting them to meet at least monthly with all the workload they have. And I'm hoping that Justice Demuse is expected to chair those too, because that's what the settlement agreement says. So that it should say, is expected to chair quarterly and any other meetings. Since that's being amended now, you might as well amend it and say, and any other meetings of the COAB. The contract also says that
 It will terminate when the DOJ agrees that the city is in compliance. The settlement agreement says the city has to be fully in compliance for one year before it's done. I'm hoping the contract can be written more clearly so that the COCL's job will continue for that year until the city is fully in compliance. Thank you.
 with the settlement agreement as written. Judge DeMuniz's role was promised to us by council that he's going to be here three days a week. The contract now says two or three days a week for six months, and then after that, only one day a week. So we're still not going to have real eyes and ears on the ground from this out-of-town COCL.
 Finally, I just want to say that as a member of the steering committee of the AMA coalition, that the collaborative agreement between the city and the AMA coalition says any efforts to weaken the settlement agreement, we're going to oppose. And I'm going to say that.
 Despite what you're saying, that you think you're trying to appeal, whether there's going to be more or what the terms are going to be of these annual hearings, this is a challenge to the judge's authority to hold hearings at all, and you should just drop the appeal. Thank you. Joanne, welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon. For the Beckett, I'm Joanne Hardesty, and I'm here representing the AMA Coalition for Justice and Police Reform.
 Dan said a lot of what I wanted to say. One thing, however, that I want to put on the record is that I do not believe that a police officer should be overseeing the contract of the oversight of fixing what's wrong with Portland Police.
 You may remember that the settlement agreement specifically made sure that the COCO did not work for any individual city council member. In fact, the COCO works for the entire city council. And it is inappropriate to have a police officer be the one deciding whether or not the contractors are doing the job that they've been hired to do. And so I would hope that you would change that.
 Who do you recommend, Joanne? I recommend the auditor, which they're set up to audit stuff, as one example. One is Wes Mitchell is a former police officer, not a police officer. And secondly, this is intended as a temporary arrangement until the staff person that was just described is hired. In the Office of Neighborhood Involvement is where you expect that to be? Yes.
 I just think it sets a wrong precedent when she may not be a police officer today, but she still has the opportunity to go back and be a police officer if she so desires. Well, somebody has to administer this until such time as their staff. I bet the auditor would be happy to help. Okay.
 Okay, well, we can ask that question. Okay. And so I also agree with Dan in regard to having nobody on the ground on a regular basis that's actually engaging community members and what's going on with the police. Judge DeMuniz, six months, the contract's for five years. So the fact that we're going to go from two to three days, which is wiggly,
 to one day a month, I think is totally inappropriate for this contract. We need people on the ground engaging people where they are. That means where houseless people are, where grassroots African-American youth are hanging out. And I love Judge DeMuniz, but I don't think he's a grassroots outreach person.
 And so who's going to be the liaison to make sure that real voices are included into this process? And I know we talked about putting a computer system in place, but again, that only works for people who have computers. It doesn't work for the rest of us. And so it's important that when we put this system together that it is transparent and people who need to access it know how to access it.
 I'd hate to have a phone number that only gets answered once a week because Judge Demunas isn't there the other days. Just as a point of information on that, that's the intent of the administrative assistant in the second ordinance. And I think that's a terrific suggestion about having some outreach experience that we can put that in the job description for that person. But certainly the intent is that that would be a full-time person who would be answering the phone in person sometimes.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. I appreciate that. There was one last point that I was going to make. Oh, the cost. I think what we're hearing is very fluffy numbers, and so I'm unclear if the $75,000 is what's being paid to Dr. DeMunez
 or if that is the budget to put the office in place, the computer system in place, and hire staff. I believe that's a not-to-exceed amount for travel expenses that's billed against and receded against incrementally. But if you look at the other page where it says subcontractors, I see Judge DeMuniz receiving $75,000 annually in this contract.
 And so that's why I'm confused. I thought there was 75,000 for travel.
 And then another $75,000 for Judge DeMuniz. Which is part of the 240. Yeah, within the 240. Which is part of the 240. Right. And then there's a second 250 in the second ordinance for all of the support, the cable TV, the administrative assistant, the office space, those kinds of things. Well, thank you. Because this document does not make that clear. It appeared clear.
 And so I heard the testimony, but it didn't match what I was reading. Okay, we'll get them back up on that point. I think that's a good point. I was quite concerned about the speed in which we're having to do all of this. It's required by the settlement. The DOJ has been accepting of some feedback, but also definitely pushing us to continue doing things as fast as we can. So I share the concern that there hasn't necessarily been any
 the time available to, as was shown by all of the typos that we had to get corrected. So thank you, and we acknowledge that that's a valid concern. Thank you. And last thing, but not least, I actually have something positive that I like about this contract. Take as much time as you want. Okay.
 I want to appreciate Judge DeMuniz going out to Rosewood Initiative and determining that he was going to set up an office in that community because that is a community that desperately needs this kind of service right there. So that is a wonderful, wonderful outcome of this contract. Thank you. Thank you. I just wanted to note, Commissioner Fritz, that this is called an ordianence as well at the top of the page. Thank you.
 I saw that in the draft and I forgot to correct it. Sorry. Thank you. Thank you. I once filed a brief on behalf of the untied states, so you've got lots of company. Welcome. Thank you. I'm Jan Friedman. I'm a staff attorney with Disability Rights Oregon. We're also part of the Albina Ministerial Alliance. Bob Jundef has been on the committee that –
 chose the COCL, and we're a member of the Portland Police Bureau Behavioral Health Unit Advisory Committee. And I'm here today with...
 concern regarding this annual hearing before the judge and that that be something that be put in place and that it be put in place in perpetuity. There's a reason that people go before a neutral, impartial person, and I think the reasons for that exist in this situation. We have a situation where our clients, people with mental illness, were being...
 victims of excessive use of force by the Portland Police Bureau. Now, that's a very serious matter. That's the reason the settlement agreement's in place. And I think that it would be wrong to put this in the hands of anybody other than a totally impartial body. If Judge Simons is not serving that role, you have a different judge involved.
 in that position, but you need people to go before the judge, and you need not for the COCL to be brought at the request of the city, but for them to be required to.
 to be there. I'm not sure how the, because the city shouldn't be involved. The COCL, from my understanding, at the outset of this, was a totally independent, free-floating entity that was there to ensure that the settlement agreement was actually going to take place as it should be, or to try to get things, hey, things aren't going to go perfect, but we need to hear about it. We need to hear about it at least once a year.
 in terms of how things are going. So I think if there's any thought at removing that piece, that's a mistake. And it's a mistake for our clients. Our clients already have a large trust issue. There's been long periods of time, as well as certain individuals who would never call the police
 Because they're worried about their family member. They'd like them to live and have trouble rather than die, potentially. So I think that we have an obviously very serious situation, and we need to have that impartial body. There's a reason why we have a judicial system, and it's to handle these very sorts of matters. And like juvenile dependency cases, there's periodic reviews to see what's happening with
 with those children. We don't have children, we have adults, we have children, we have citizens of Portland, but it's very important to keep that in place. And can I ask you a question? Yeah. So from the point of view of your clients,
 What do you expect to be accomplished through these annual reviews? So what do you expect the judge to do, and what do you view is the scope of the judge's authority? Okay.
 So in terms of what the judge would do is the judge would sit and listen to the information that's related to the settlement agreement and get a read on how things are going. And if anything is off or if something needs to be tinkered with or something needs to be changed, that's what the judge would do, would be listening closely.
 and also taking in that information and saying, well, it looks like we're not here on this. Looks like we're here and doing a good job on that. Looks like there could be a change on this. In terms of scope of authority, that's a harder question. And I'm not sure exactly what the scope of their authority would be, but I would think it would be, at the very least, to be the person who's an expert on the settlement agreement, who can take in the facts,
 and who can make a determination as to where we're at on that settlement agreement. Are we in compliance or not? And just to clarify, in this matter, I'm a client and not a lawyer. So I'm getting advice from the city attorney's office. And I have not been able to get from anybody clarity about what is the scope of the judge's authority.
 And I believe that is in part why the city has sought review of this issue, to have someone tell them. And it's not an incidental thing. And the reason I ask you about what your client's expectations are, if it's a hearing for the purpose of the judge taking evidence and saying, you know –
 you know, I'll give you an A in this area, B in this area, and this area needs work. That's one thing. But what if it's a hearing and at the end the judge says, okay, I don't think this is working. And so I'm going to direct that this agreement be changed. And I'm going to do it even though Joanne Hardesty doesn't agree with me because I have a view that it should be done differently. I mean, that's not an incidental question to ask what the scope of the authority is because we are submitting to the jurisdiction of a court.
 The analogy that you gave about protected person, well, you've got a thick rulebook that says what you know exactly what the court's authority is because it's statutory, because there's case law. We're creating something. And so I don't want to get lost in this discussion that the question of what is the scope of the judge's authority is something the city sincerely wants to have clarified because
 And I suppose you can go to the judge and ask, or I suppose you can go to reviewing court, or I suppose we can try to negotiate it, but I still haven't had someone explain to me what the scope is, and I don't want either side going into this with false expectations. Right.
 No, I mean, I think it makes sense to know what the scope is. I don't think that this is your standard proceeding before a judge. This is something different because it comes from a settlement agreement. I don't think it's a bad idea to ask Judge Simon what he thinks, and maybe everybody says, fine, that looks good. And if I might, Jan, Commissioner, the judge was pretty clear that he has no authority to change the settlement agreement at all.
 The judge was really clear that what he wanted was a verbal report once a year because he did not want to wait until year five when the city of Portland came in and said everything is lovely and then have to review five years of data in that fifth year. I think the judge was really clear. He didn't hesitate at all in what he said he wanted. And, Joanne, since you're maybe more current in some of this than I am,
 Is that in writing or something the judge said in open court? He said it in open court and it's part of his statement on him accepting the settlement agreement under these conditions.
 So, yes, it's readily available. And I should further that. He said, all I can do is ask questions. He was very clear about that. Yes, he was. And the city attorney has asked him that question in the court, and that's what he said. All I can do is ask questions. And he also said that there would be no testimony, no cross-examination. I mean, the judge is really clear, so I don't know what the clarification issues are that you guys have.
 Okay, we'll ask the city attorney to come up and tell us that. So thank you all very much. Thank you. I appreciate the discussion. You're welcome. Yeah, I'm glad I could help. So there's a record of that proceeding, and this is sounding familiar to me now. You guys have much better recollection than exactly as to what he said. Okay.
 Get the record, because I think he did make it very clear that he wasn't going to jump in and do something to shake the whole thing up. I mean, he's really just trying to be helpful, right, make sure that there's a marking point. Well, there may be a reason to shake it up, but I want to be respectful of the fact that we're not the only party. Right. Okay.
 And every inch of the way, there's been a concern about doing this a certain way. So at the end, I'm reluctant – I mean, just conceptually reluctant to say, well, we're going to make someone king for a day. It may be against the desires of one or more of the parties.
 Well, you may remember, the reason that there was a day and a half at the fairness hearing where a communities member came and they made a compelling case to Judge Simon that we needed someone outside of the city of Portland looking at this review and this transformation of Portland Police. And because the buck stopped with him, since he has the settlement agreement on his docket,
 People asked him. They want him involved. Your community said they didn't trust this city council to do it on its own. And that's part of the public record as well. Thank you. Thank you. So since we're bearing down on this point, I think it would be useful to get Ms. Osinak back up and maybe Ms. Prosper as well, but I think you, Eleanor, are the authority on that process.
 Judy's going to take a pass on that and get you to do a better job than perhaps I did earlier of iterating why this issue needs to be appealed and clarified. Yeah, I mean, I'm not sure I can put it much more clearly than Commissioner Fish did. The panel that was just up here is correct that Judge Simon was—
 We had, the city, along with other parties, had repeatedly sought clarity from him about what the intended purpose of the hearings were, whether or not cross-examination would be allowed, whether or not anybody besides the COCL would be required to present evidence, whether or not the community would be able to participate, what exactly the hearings looked like. Because I cannot stress enough that there is no other court in this country that...
 in this type of agreement where you have a case that was filed, dismissed pursuant to a settlement agreement, there is no other court that has ever convened periodic hearings in a dismissed case. So this is not something where any applicable procedures are readily available to the parties or the court necessarily.
 fashion what these hearings are going to look like. And it is absolutely correct, and the parties have the record of the proceedings, that Judge Simon gave indications from the bench about what he would like these hearings to look like. And so what the city and the United States and the PPA did was to take those...
 statements that Judge Simon had made and to transcribe them into a written document that had all of the limitations that...
 He said that he thought were applicable, including the fact that he didn't have the authority to order the parties to do anything, that the hearing would not be evidentiary, that there would not be any cross-examination, that the COCL would be the person that was presenting information since it's an independent assessment, that the COCL would be the person presenting information to the court. And Judge Simon rejected that.
 He did not enter in writing the limitations that he had orally suggested would be appropriate in the hearing. And so,
 It is entirely unclear in this very novel proceeding what the parties can expect. And in particular, there is a legitimate concern that the compliance officer team is supposed to be an independent assessor. And so to have that person be...
 subject to cross-examination from the city, the Portland Police Association, the Albina Ministerial Alliance, all of whom may have concerns and questions that can undermine the authority of the COCL, is in direct conflict with the intent of the parties entering into this settlement agreement. The Department of Justice is the monitor of this settlement agreement.
 As the United States Attorney said, that's a very unique arrangement. It is something – and we created a community oversight advisory body to have maximum community input. Again, unprecedented in the country. And so –
 We took great care, painstaking detail as we crafted the settlement agreement to describe the various roles. And so to have at the end an order that does not describe the role that the city invited, agreed that the judge should play on an annual basis is concerning. Ellen, let me just push on this point a little bit. So if we're not clear and you've described –
 what you view as the challenge, the problem. What are the different options that we would have to clarify it? For example, can we go back to the judge and ask either for clarification or reconsideration? That's number one. Number two, what can we accomplish through mediation, and is the judge a party to that? And number three, what are the potential benefits of the appeal in terms of getting clarification? Okay.
 So let me take those in order. In terms of what we might accomplish in mediation, I'm pleased to – The first one was could we just ask. Could we just ask. That's right. Yes. Thank you. So the first one is can we just ask. There –
 Because the case is dismissed, we were in an awkward procedural posture to file a motion for reconsideration. We don't want the judge to reconsider or undo the settlement agreement. The order he entered ordered the settlement agreement as approved in an order of the court. So we don't wish to have him reconsider that. Couldn't we do it?
 less formally and just send a letter? I mean, judges get letters all the time. They're the nature of motions, but without the formality. Yeah, I mean, we certainly thought of that in this case. Judge Simon, probably rightly so, has been reluctant to have that sort of informal communication with the parties.
 I think there is a level of public interest and involvement that probably militates against that kind of informal communication. That may not be the best route. What about the other two? So I'm pleased to report that the Ninth Circuit agreed with the city that mediation is appropriate in this case. We had requested mediation, and we were granted mediation.
 that request, due in no small part to the fact that the United States and the Portland Police Alliance, who are parties to the appeal, also agreed that they thought that mediation would be appropriate in this case. In terms of what we can expect from an outcome, what we hope is to be able to come to an agreement about what procedures should apply in this very novel hearing, and so...
 It's hard to predict exactly how we will communicate. How would a voluntary agreement through mediation be binding on Judge Simon?
 Well, I think we all anticipate, let me say this, the Ninth Circuit Mediation Program is very robust and the mediators are very creative. And so we expect that the mediators will be able to assist us in figuring out exactly the answer to your question, how might we craft an order that we can present to Judge Simon that will work for him.
 And the fallback is the appeal, which is to have the Ninth Circuit rule on this. Yes, that's correct. And, again, that's a bridge we'll have to cross when we come to it. That's certainly not the city's intent. We absolutely think, as do the other parties, that mediation is going to result in the clarity that we need to go forward. What's the reasonable timeline, do you think, under which mediation could either be successful or not?
 Well, we have an in-person mediation session scheduled for February 23rd, so quite soon. And again, I think our hope is that we will really dig in at that session and produce procedures that work for everybody, and then hopefully they work for Judge Simon. Just remind us, if you would, when would be the earliest date that that annual hearing would be held before Judge Simon?
 It's currently scheduled in September of 2015, and we've already indicated to the United States and Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz and other members of council have repeatedly said we absolutely intend to appear at that hearing, and the best evidence of that is that we did not seek a stay of Judge Simon's order. Just to make sure I understand, we may in late February, early March,
 be able to resolve this issue through mediation which obviously is the best possible outcome because it's a voluntary agreement by the parties if not the council will have a chance to get briefed again on next steps and in any event the annual hearing isn't for many months down the road and we've already made clear we intend to fully participate in that hearing correct exactly well that's helpful for me other questions for ellen
 There were questions raised by Mr. Handelman about the contract, which I'm going to hold, because we may have other suggestions from folks that testify, but I'm going to call Ms. Wes Mitchell and Ms. Prosper back up at the end to take up those questions. I was noting them as we went along. Are there other questions for Alan? If not, then we'll take more public testimony, please. The next three are Chris Lowe, M. Mayo, and Nancy Newell.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Chris Lowe. I'm here representing Portland Jobs with Justice, which is a labor community coalition for workers' rights and social justice in town. Thank you.
 I was here in October urging you not to make the appeal that you voted to make. I'm here today to urge you to withdraw that appeal. I'm doing it in relationship to the community COCL and that –
 And issues of trust and making this – I'm assuming good faith on the part of you as individuals, but I also want to communicate to you that you are distrusted as an institution, not you as individual city councilors, but the city council, which has a pattern of practice that has created distrust in the community over a number of decades and a number of personnel changes. So –
 If we assume that the best will to make this settlement be a path forward for improved policing and improved community trust, then I think that puts a different light on this appeal. From my point of view, the COCL needs to have community trust, and if Judge Simon is in the process of,
 then that strengthens the COCL, gives them both on the enforcement side, they're about compliance, and the community liaison side, an extra tool that's going to help with the COAB to make the whole process more open, more transparent, bring people in, feel like it's more trusted.
 On the other hand, if you pursue this appeal, what you are doing is you're saying the institutional prerogatives of the city council as an institution outweigh the questions of community trust to improve the policing and to make this whole thing work better. I just ask you a question. Were you here for the exchange we just had with Ellen? Yes, I was. And I appreciate your testimony, but did you listen to that exchange? I did. And so you're still framing this as a question of trust when you heard –
 the lawyers explained to us that there's still an open question which potentially negatively impacts all the parties, and you're framing it – you may have a different view, sir, but you're framing that as a trust question? Yes, I am. Do the parties actually know what the scope of the judge's authority is? You want to see it produced?
 Hey, hey, hey, hey. No, no, no. We'll have your turn. Right. Later in my testimony, I was going to come back to exactly the question you're raising. I can try and do it now. I hope you'll give me a little latitude on my three minutes. Sure.
 What I heard was a very procedurally oriented set of arguments, and one of the key issues here is the parties, right? So one of the unusual features of this settlement is that there are three direct parties, the Department of Justice, the city, and the legislature.
 Portland, the police union. And then there is the Albany Ministerial Alliance Coalition, which is not a full party, but has been given certain kinds of processes for engaging in it. Now, the problem with the mediation procedure is that you might come to an agreement between yourselves and the police union and the Department of Justice, but
 The voice of the community that has been brought in through the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition is not part of that mediation. So, you know, and I think, you know, from my point of view, you know, the question of other kinds of negotiation ought to be out there as well. You know, have the city sit down with the Department of Justice and with the, you know, in a more informal kind of way, not a formal discussion.
 district mediation process, but say, okay, how can we, you know, what are the things that we really need to have clarified and how could we define that in a way and then take that to the judge? You know, I think that the legalism of all of this is why I'm raising it as a trust issue. And I'm also raising it as a political issue and a trust issue for you to think about, you know.
 I understand the arguments, but what I see coming down the road is that a perception, a potential perception, that, you know, what I understand Judge Simon to be basically there doing with what he came up with is that
 being a backstop against evasion, right? So I've heard testimony before this council from the police bureau that they've, you know, moved something on 80% of the issues under the settlement. Okay, that's fine, but what's the quality of the reporting? And that's my understanding, really, of what Judge Simon would be intervening in is.
 What's the quality of the reporting? Excuse me. You're not being timed at all, and I appreciate the discussion. How is that different from what the COCL and the COAB are doing? Isn't that primarily the responsibility of the COCL and the COAB to look at what the police are doing? It's a backstop against... We hope this process of the COCL and the COAB will produce community trust. If the COCL somehow ends up becoming...
 a body where the way that they're doing a kind of minimal rather than robust compliance attitude, which has been the attitude of the city in many instances in the past. This isn't a city. This is an independent body. The COCL and the COAB are an independent body, and they are funded by but not controlled by the city.
 Your understanding of the implications of where funding comes from is a bit different from mine. Well, unless the Department of Justice wants to fund them, we have to fund them. Look, I understand that. But, again, I'm coming back to the question of what is the goal here? If the goal here is to improve community policing and –
 restore trust, if that's the overall goal of the settlement, which I believe I heard Commissioner Fritz in particular, but others of you say, you know, we want this to work. We're trying to make this work. That's why we entered into a settlement. That's why we're doing this unusual thing with the Department of Justice.
 If that's really your goal, then don't get narrow about it at the last minute. No, we're just trying to make sure that the COCL and the COAB are those who have the most authority to say whether or not the police are doing what is required by the settlement. That's where the majority of the...
 citizens' effort needs to be put. That's where the quarterly town halls where there's taking input and the reporting. And I hope that all works out. But if the COCL ends up exercising its authority and the fact that they're outside the community, you know, that, as has been pointed out, Judge DeMuniz has some respect but is not engaged at that kind of community level, that choice also affects this trust issue. So, you know...
 This isn't, you know, in terms of voting on your contract today, it's probably not relevant, but I'm just trying to take this opportunity because the COCL and the COAB are at the focus of it to really urge you to rethink how you're looking at this appeal and think about whether there's better ways to get the information that you want to get about what needs to be provided and what doesn't that...
 don't look like they're putting your institutional prerogative above the trust goals of the whole process. So that's really the burden of my testimony. Mr. Loth, can I just make this is probably a legalistic point, but generally in the judicial system, you have one party suing another and the judge is sort of a referee of that dispute.
 And in this case, it's not just the COLA and the COAB, it's the Department of Justice, which is the other party that you would expect to be monitoring and seeing if we're complying with the agreement. And the concern I have about...
 The judge's role is we don't want to get into a situation where, I mean, if in a criminal proceeding the prosecutor brought charges against a defendant and asked for life without parole, you wouldn't want a judge saying, no, no, no, you're not asking for enough, you should get the death penalty. It's not the judge's role to take substantive positions like that generally. I don't believe, from what my understanding is, that the judge,
 that that is what is at stake in the judge's role. I think that what's at stake is the quality of the information that is before the public about compliance. So building trust requires good information, requires transparent information, requires demonstrating that steps have been taken.
 I think that, Judge, my expectation, my best expectation would be that the COCA will do a fine job, the COAB will support them, the reports that come in will be good and strong and robust in those ways, and Judge Simons say, hey, yeah, that looks good. And
 But if it should come out that the information is being obscured, that people believe things are being misrepresented, I think that having him in the process creates an opportunity to prevent a kind of distrust cycle again. So...
 And I appreciate what you say about the way that the adversarial legal system usually works, but, you know, we're also sitting here hearing testimony from the U.S. attorney saying this is unusual and from the city attorney saying this is unusual. This isn't a usual adversarial thing. There's cooperation going on here. I've heard from you saying we want this to be a robust process that really builds trust, and I think you have to choose between those goals.
 Is your goal ultimately to use this process to change the relationships in the city and improve them and let go of the technical stuff? Or is your, you know, goal to make sure that you're dotting every I and T of what your rights are in the process? So, again, that's my testimony. Thank you. Okay, next. Thank you.
 I think I can stand. State your name, please. My name is Mayo, spelled M-E-O, first name Michael. I live at 2925 Northeast Wydler. And I have been listening to things I utterly deny. It doesn't matter, all these details.
 There's a simple and straightforward way you protect against brutal policemen. It's the same straightforward way we protect against incompetent doctors. It's the same straightforward way I, as a teacher, am fired if I start playing around with my girls in my classroom. Of course, I ought to have taught that to the last mayor.
 Look here, the way we get rid of, the way we have police accountability is to fire people who are brutal to our citizens, and you're not doing that. And until you make that easier, until you do something in that direction, I'm going to continue to starve myself to death on your doorstep. I support all the testimony that's already been provided.
 And I don't understand why we're hiring an outside firm because we have a very neat program at Portland State University, peaceful conflict resolution, master's programs. We have the capability. It's not just what exists under the law because we know law has not served its purposes, and we've got some major crises across the country and in this city. And to address that requires a form of language.
 that people understand in their own community. And I would object to hiring an outside firm, and not only for the expense, because so much of that money can be used directly in the community that could solve some of the problems so immediately that,
 Regardless of what the judge says, we could be a model too in that sense, not just in what we're trying to do here, but the fact that huge mistakes have been made, tragic mistakes have been made, and it's an opportunity for everybody to do the best they can to correct that immediately. One example is street routes, a tremendous operation, and they just came out with the story that prisoners are now charged for phone calls.
 We've got a profiteering industry in this city and state, and you should be making statements constantly to rebuild trust in the community. Because the reactions of people, someone said, well, you know, this fellow was really doing awful things in Missouri, and now everybody's up in arms here. What is this all about? Well, it's about stop and frisk. Stop and frisk, a whole mentality of you're no longer a human being.
 How do we change that in our community? We don't need a judge to tell us how to do that. We're human beings. We operate from the concept that we have a peaceful conflict resolution. We can use the language, use the language, use the ability to build the trust, go into the communities. And I don't agree with some of the way the funds are being used on this contract. I agree that you should remove your appeal, namely because the people believe that they've got a process that can work.
 And how is it that you're gaining through that appeal if you can direct questions to the judge and you can get clarification in other ways? I have seen in my own experience on closing nuclear plants, it's amazing what people can do when they sit down in a room and talk. And we're going to close another nuclear plant, by the way, but I would put in a high recommendation of better efforts from that direction. Thank you. Thanks very much. Next. I believe the first name is Merle Vianney-Riviere.
 King Bishop Stiles, and Robert Walker. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Mila Vianney-Rivier. I'm born and raised in Portland, Oregon. I always like to say that. I appreciate all of you guys' work. One of the main things or the main takeaways that I get from today is that there's a lot of narrowing in the process. I understand that the city attorney's office has to...
 narrow or make understandable the scope of the judge. The difficulty with that is that you're dealing with a community that historically has felt shut out. And I think that when they hear that you all are appealing, it sends another message of distancing. And I wish there was a way that
 people could get together and get creative and figure out problems without the no offense without the the attorneys involved because i think that is possible but i also understand that we have to deal with the police brutality here so it's a real difficult position to to finagle um i hope that it gets cleared out easily at the same time i wish there was a way that
 creatively some people could get together on both sides of the aisle and figure out a solution where trust could be built. I don't know how at this time. Maybe by 7 o'clock tonight I could figure it out, but right now I don't have anything in mind. But I see a real narrowing, and I understand that it has to be defined. Intellectually, I understand that. But I'm concerned about the community still, even after all of these years. Yes.
 So thank you for your time. Thank you. And that's a lot of money. I bet you I could do the same work for 18% of that $250,000 or the $1.575,000. Thank you. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. Thank you. Mr. Stiles, welcome. Thank you.
 thank you uh king bishop styles um here representing the three kings of portland and i don't want to take up too much time um i just agree with a lot of things that have been said um in reference to v um i do have a meeting with your office uh coming up uh soon uh with suggested solutions in how people can get together and um
 bridge this gap. So thank you very much for your time. I appreciate your work. Thanks for your advocacy. Thank you. Welcome. This is my first time speaking. Just give us your name, that's all. I'm Robert Walker. I represent random individuals for justice and I believe that we should reconsider the appeal, not just as one council, but
 How would it benefit the whole city and anyone outside of the city who might be watching this? We've got to rethink the message that we're trying to send. That's all I have to say. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thanks very much. Next three are Joe Walsh, Byron Tennant, and Leanne Cerbulo. Mr. Walsh, come on up. Walsh, I believe you're first. Thank you.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. One of the few times you have me thoroughly confused. It seems that Commissioner Fish indicated that he would prefer mediation. Well, mediation, from what I understand, and I just kind of ask some of these questions now, is part of the appeal process. Yes.
 So you have to go to the Ninth Circuit and file the appeal in order to get mediation. All right. That was not clear from Commissioner Fish's statement. So I think the people watching this would be a little confused at saying, gee, why don't we just go to mediation? Or why don't we just send a letter to the judge and say, would you clarify this stuff? That seems easy to us civilians.
 But that's not the process. The process is you are appealing a federal judge's decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeal. That's what you're doing. You're going to spend a lot of money doing it. And in the hopes of the city attorney testifying here today, that maybe we can get mediation out of it. To a civilian, I would think that that is totally confusing.
 So we're saying to you, look, this judge is saying on the record he has no authority to change the agreement. We all know that. It's on the record. I was there. I heard him say it five times. He kept saying it over and over again. I have no authority to change this agreement.
 All I'm asking for is for the city to come before me and answer some questions. That's it. If he doesn't like the answers, he's got no power to do anything. All he's doing is forcing the city on the record and an embarrassment to the Department of Justice in the hope that the Department of Justice will get off their asses and do something. That's what he's hoping for.
 By bringing you guys before him, he's hoping, hoping, not demanding, not dictating. He's saying, I'm hoping that the city does the right thing and straightens out this police department. Every city in the United States now is going through this at one stage or the other. There's something very wrong with our police department, and it's an attitude.
 And if you don't believe what I'm telling you, just return his statements. That's the attitude of your police department. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. Thank you. My name is Byron Tennant. I am a Portland resident. With trepidation, I come here to name myself as someone who may be a candidate to participate on the COAB. No trepidation. We're glad you volunteered.
 Unfortunately, it is very unclear today what the roles, rights, responsibilities of the COAB will be. I've got the frequently asked questions here that I've printed out. It looks like we're guaranteed the right to report to the public and to take questions from the public. And beyond that, it's very uncertain. It seems like a very big ask for us to...
 apply for two years with this process really as I think we can all see still in the developing here I've seen here that the neighborhood coalition Nonprofit organizations can nominate one candidate. I have experienced technical Problems with doing that in timely fashion during this week Just after the Christmas holiday all holidays
 Can anyone name current participants on the CoAB? I've heard one name come out. Is there anyone in addition to that one name who is currently? When was the application for CoAB widely circulated? Is there a date that? By this Friday. I'll answer all the questions. I'm writing them down. Yeah. Is there a date that? When was the earliest date?
 that that Coab participants could have apply this is one thing that I'm very curious about this this just seems to be happening very quickly and I understand the importance and how how much gravity there is this and I want to emphasize that this is more than just a problem of the police this is more than just a problem of the city this is really the community at large
 And I want to make sure that we can involve the community in a meaningful way and ensure that we get the best participants on this co-op. With the assumption that the role of the co-op will be very important in this going forward. So I really want to urge Portland City Council to resolve in the year 2015 to make very clear from the beginning what public involvement is going to look like.
 And when we're making this big of an ask for this two-year commitment, I think the importance cannot be denied. Thank you. Good. Thank you very much. You want to address some of those questions? Thank you so much for asking these questions because it allows us to tell everybody watching at home on cable about the process. The application was posted on December 11th, and it's open until this coming Friday, January 9th.
 The application process is a little different from what is outlined in the settlement, and that was agreed to by the Department of Justice and the parties. So there's no longer an option for going to the neighborhood coalitions or for them to nominate, and there isn't going to be a public meeting either. What the process is is that the Human Rights Commission and the Commission on Disability chairs choose five candidates with experience, either lived or professional, with mental health care.
 And then there's five at-large positions, which a selection committee of community members will make the choices. So Commissioner Fish had previously referred to his candidate. In each case, it's the identified choosers get to make the choices. The council doesn't have to pass judgment on any of them except for the ones that we individually appoint.
 So the Commission on Disability and Human Rights Commission choose five. The five at-large members are chosen by the selection committee of some 20-some different leaders of community organizations like the Urban League and NAAA and NAMI, the mental health care folks. There's a number of different ones.
 The same application form, though, is good for all of these different three sets of five. The last five are chosen one each by each member of the council. Commissioner Fish announced ahead of time that his selection is former Senator Aval Gordley, and he did that in part to let folks know that somebody with amazing community stature, both as a political leader and as somebody who has a family member with mental health experience,
 is very, very interested in being on this committee so that it is worth people's time. The actual what the committee is going to do is not spelled out quite so in such detail in the settlement agreement, in part because the committee gets to decide what you want to do. They do hold town halls to hear from citizens. They work with the COCO to oversee the different
 multiple paragraphs in the settlement agreement have things that the police and the city are supposed to do. And so the advisory board will be working with the COCO to say whether or not that was done. So when the police say that there is over 80 different items that they've already started work on or completed, the
 Coab and the COCL are the ones who will say, check, yes, that's done, or no, this is not done. So it's hugely important. Did I cover all the questions that you asked? Yes.
 I'm not sure if I asked specifically, but can any nonprofit nominate a participant? Nobody needs to be nominated. Anybody can self-nominate, so you don't have to go to a nonprofit to nominate somebody. Right. Let's say a nonprofit neighborhood association wants to nominate one person for a co-op. That person just fills out an application form and sends it in.
 Okay. There's no requirement for anybody to nominate you to, there's no requirement actually for showing community support, although you can put that in your application. If you do have support of different organizations, you can put that in your application, but it's not required. And so the requirement is basically to have been self-caring for mental illness for 10 years or to care for another individual person?
 That's for the five that are selected by the Commission on Disability and the Human Rights Commission. For the five at large, there's no requirement for any mental health experience. I think three will be selected by the Human Rights Commission and the other organization you just mentioned. It's actually five. The Human Rights Commission and the Commission on Disability each get to actually select five.
 from their own members, one representative, and then they have three other representatives that they choose from the applications that come in. That's the three you're talking about, right? So there's five altogether that are appointed by the Commission on Disability and the Human Rights Commission. I hope you'll forgive some lingering confusion. Is there any date that we
 The kind of one-to-one nomination process. So all the application forms need to be submitted by this Friday at 5 o'clock. But the rest of the nominations after that are on a schedule? No. Yeah, they're on a rough schedule. Well, the selection committee will be meeting later this month to choose their five at-large members, and then the day after the council will announce our appointees. The 22nd and the 23rd.
 Yeah. So there is a schedule mapped out for that process to take place. It could go a little longer, but it's intended to be within those parameters. So it's going to happen pretty fast, in other words. And the public meeting where the selection committee makes its choices will be open to the public, but there will not be a requirement to get 50 signatures to support your nomination. There won't be any kind of formal presentations from the candidates to the committee whatsoever.
 I'm sorry, I'm still confused. I printed out this frequently asked questions on Monday, and so it's different actually from what's printed here. So anyone can self-nominate for a co-op? Correct. Everybody? Correct. Okay.
 And Deanna Weston-Mitchell, who is in the turquoise blazer behind you, she can walk you through it if you have any further questions. I really appreciate you asking these questions because I'm sure a lot of folks at home are also asking them. But the key point is go to the website, go to portlandonline.com, go to my website. There's a link right to the application form. If there's any questions, Jasmine in my office would be more than happy to answer questions on the phone or to help folks walk through the application. Is there any possibility of...
 extending the application date past Friday? We were hoping so, but that's the point where the Department of Justice said that no, we need to stay to this schedule. So I don't believe that we're going to be able to extend that schedule. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for applying. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Leanne Serbulo. I'm a professor at Portland State University, and I'm here before you today to urge you to rescind your appeal to Judge Michael Simon.
 I co-authored with my PSU colleague, Dr. Karen Gibson, an Oregon Historical Quarterly article, which was titled Black and Blue. It's a study of the history of police and African-American community relations in the city of Portland from 1964 until 1985. Our article won the Joel Palmer Award for the best Oregon Historical Quarterly article published in 2013, and I brought copies here for you to read today.
 The article tells the story of the civil rights struggle to reform the Portland police, and this is a story of a cycle of reform and backlash. Every time the black community pushed for reforms, their efforts were met with resistance from both the police department and also from the city.
 It is often said that the purpose of studying history is to not repeat the mistakes of the past, and the main conclusion that we drew in our article was that police reform was most successful here in Portland when the city was held accountable by an outside agency. I'll give you an example. Thank you.
 In 1969, Robert Probasco and 13 other black Portlanders living in the Albina District filed a civil rights lawsuit against the city, the mayor, council, police chief, and 33 officers. Mr. Probasco had been stopped at a police roadblock that was set up in his neighborhood. The police pulled him out of his truck, drew a gun on him, put a gun to his passenger's head, searched the truck without his consent. Each of the 13 other defendants had similar experiences. Thank you.
 The lawsuit ended in 1971 with a consent decree, where the city admitted to no wrongdoing, but they agreed to implement a long list of policy changes, including prohibiting police from using racial epithets, educating officers on search and seizure laws, requiring officers to wear name badges, banning the use of shop-filled sap gloves and leaded batons, implementing affirmative action hiring policies, and establishing a process so citizens could file complaints against the police.
 The signing of the Probasco Decree led to the establishment of the Internal Affairs Division, the hiring of a reformist chief, and the first efforts to diversify the Portland Police Force. These reforms would most likely not have been made at that time had it not been for the consent decree. It took an outside agency, in this case the U.S. District Courts, to force these reforms. While the decree inspired some significant change in the Portland Police Bureau, many of these reforms had little effect.
 Ten years later, internal affairs had rarely sustained any citizen complaints, and the Bureau remained 97% white. Why were these reforms so ineffective? No outside agency was holding the city accountable for implementing these reforms.
 By 1981, ten years later, despite the promise of the Probasco Decree, African American civil rights continued to be violated by the Portland police. This was the year of the infamous Possum incident. That same year, two women filed civil rights lawsuits against the city and the Portland police. They had been pulled over by the police on separate occasions, and both had been subjected to racist taunts, beaten, and arrested. Their lawyers argued that if the city had fully complied with the Probasco Decree, their clients would have never been pulled over, harassed, or beaten.
 There were a number of other unfortunate incidents that may have been avoided if the Probasco decree had been fully implemented. In 1979, it was discovered that officers in the Special Investigations Division were routinely engaging in illegal searches and seizures of narcotics. This scandal led to the release of dozens of convicted drug dealers, including Robert Jack Christopher, who had killed a Portland police officer, Dave Crother, during an illegal drug raid.
 Had the city fully complied with the Probasco Decree, especially the section on training officers in the proper use of search and seizure, lives may have been saved, including, in this case, the life of a Portland police officer. Had the city fully complied with the Probasco Decree and established racial sensitivity training for its officers, then perhaps Tony Stevenson, Keaton Otis, Kendra James, James Jahar Perez, Jose Mejia Put, or Aaron Campbell would be alive today.
 Had the city fully complied with the Probosco decree by establishing an effective citizen complaint process where officers who repeatedly use excessive force were disciplined for their actions, then maybe James Chassie might still be alive today.
 Why didn't the city fully comply with the Probasco decree? I want to ask you to try to wrap up. You've passed your time. No one was holding them accountable. After the reformist chief retired, the police union filed lawsuits opposing reforms, and the rank-and-file officers sneered at Internal Affairs. A backlash came, and it became easy to ignore this decree because nobody was holding the city accountable. Thank you.
 The mayor and council today have assured us that they intend to fully comply with the Department of Justice settlement and that there is no need for Judge Simon's oversight. The community, they say, should trust the city. While the mayor and the council are well-intentioned, we should not forget that the reforms that are outlined in the DOJ settlement were not initiated by the city. These are changes that the city was forced to make because the DOJ and outside agency found that the Portland police routinely and systematically violated the civil rights of people with mental illness and those perceived to be mentally ill.
 As we've seen throughout our city's history, it takes the intervention of an outside agency to get police reform in Portland. If the mayor and council are serious about improving police-community relations, which I believe you are, then we should embrace Judge Simon's annual review hearings. If reforms are truly being made, these hearings would provide an opportunity for the city to highlight their efforts and to repair the lack of trust that exists between our communities and the Portland Police Bureau.
 If the judge finds that these reforms, like many that have come before them, are being held up or resisted by elements opposed to change, then the mayor and council would have an ally in ensuring that these reforms get made. And finally, if there's some failure to comply with the settlement order, then this would be an outside agency that could ensure that even if there is a backlash, these reforms still get made. So, Mr. Mayor, members of the council, please heed the lessons of history, rescind your lawsuit, and let's not repeat the mistakes of the past.
 Thank you. Any others? The last one who signed up is Charles Johnson. Good afternoon. Good morning, Commissioner. I do want to apologize for all the record. My name is Charles Johnson, and I did have an outburst there with Mr. Fish and Chris Lowe. We're having their effort to understand the importance of respecting the hurt and distrust that the community has versus the priority of legal minutia. And I know, Commissioner Fish,
 his heart is on the side of making sure that every member of this community can have more trust and more respect for the police, but he also is infected by some law school training or something like that, so we forgive him. But you have to weigh things, and the fact is that the Albina Ministerial Coalition, Dr. Haynes, was out front, and in the end...
 We didn't vote for any of you because of those that have law degrees. I see we have the parking guy is absent. But it's a slap in the face of the community. A human rights commissioner resigned because the perception in the community is that you're not looking for the maximum leverage to make the maximum improvement in the Portland Police Department. I hope that you will be as courageous and even...
 more courageous than Mayor Bill de Blasio in New York and risk having the police turn their back on you. The simple truth is that too much harm happens to ordinary citizens, and a collection of alphabet soup is not very reassuring to really anyone. Some people who are professionally entrenched and have salaries and have to do political dances to protect their paychecks
 are very happy to get up here and say, ah, COCO, COAB, yay, justice. But there's a lot of skepticism and distrust. And I hope that new police chief O'Day and yourself, Mayor, will be more engaged with the communities. Even though I understand the procedural aspect of we're setting up an independent body just as –
 The Federal Reserve is somewhat independent, supposedly, and the Social Security Administration is somewhat independent. We hope that the COCL and the COAB will work only with the good of the community in mind. I hope that in the next few months, regardless of whether you stop, and the best way to build that trust would be to simply tell the city's attorney's office, whatever you're doing in mediation today is not as important as us reaching out to the community and withdrawing the appeal. It's also very cost-effective.
 So I hope you will deliberate on that suggestion. And even if you don't have the wisdom to follow that suggestion, which has been offered in beautiful testimony by Chris Lowe and the woman just before me, that if you are stiff-necked and hard-headed and persist with this appeal, you will also take responsibility.
 concrete visible steps to be in the communities that are essentially offended and insulted by your choice. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? Then I have some questions for staff, so Judy in particular and maybe you also, Deanna, but come on up Ellen, there may be questions for all three of you. Mr. Handelman raised a couple of issues that I wanted to get clarification on and that is
 quarterly meetings versus more often? How's the contract set up to address that issue? Sure. The contract, first of all, speaks to the settlement agreement. So whatever is required by the settlement agreement must take place under the contract.
 Because the co-op is not yet seated, we wanted to be able to give them maximum flexibility. So we only scheduled – they haven't even been scheduled with dates. We only speak to the quarterly co-op meetings because the other ones, at whatever rate or instance they're going to happen, are unknown. So since the COCL is to chair the co-op meetings –
 presumably all the CoAB meetings that will take place once it's formed and they decide that COCA will be there to chair them and that will be in the, Justice DeMuniz will chair those meetings. So if the, when the community outreach advisory board is impaneled and they begin to meet and they say we're going to have to meet every month for the next year, that's their decision?
 That should be their decision. It will have to be minimally quarterly, but they will decide how much more frequently. They decide to meet more often than required by the agreement. Yes, how much more frequently. And given the amount of work that Ellen said they have to do, they're probably going to meet much more frequently. It's a pretty likely scenario. And then the COAB is, regardless of the number of meetings, required to chair the meeting, right? The COCO is required to chair the COAB meetings. Did I say it wrong? Yes. Okay.
 sorry the community outreach uh community liaison community liaison community outreach person is required or team is required to share that meeting yes the meetings can't happen without the chair okay so regardless of how many meetings the board the committee decides to have the contractor will chair that meeting yes okay just want to get that clear um uh what about this question of
 Does the agreement with the COCL persist one year after the Department of Justice finds the city in compliance, or does it expire immediately upon the Department of Justice finding the city in compliance? We didn't address that nuance specifically in the contract, but that is something that we can address.
 speak to the Rosenbaum team about and make an amendment if necessary. Yeah, I would say, as usual, Mr. Handelman is very good and detailed, and I actually really appreciated him pointing that out because it's true. Technically, it's supposed to say when the DOJ determines that we've been in substantial compliance for a year. So I think we will probably make that change, and it's not a substantive change, but it's a good one. Okay.
 Okay. So we can make that amendment. I believe we should enact on this contract today but have an understanding that we may make that amendment in a timely way. Can we just orally direct you? I mean, can we vote to tell you to make that amendment?
 Yeah, or the ordinance itself just says that you're authorizing us to enter into or the city to enter into a contract that's substantially similar to that one. So I can accept that direction and make that change. It sounds like unless there's disagreement that it might be a sense of the council that we want you to make that correction because we think you got it right. Yes. Okay. Those were my points about the contract that Mr. Handelman raised. Okay.
 The administrative assistant almost laughed when Ms. Hardesty criticized your involvement in this, Deanna, because I know how much you wanted extra work. But it's our intention for you to provide the administrative support for the COAB until such time as the administrative assistant is hired. Is that right? Yes. I'm actually hoping to enlist the assistance of some of our interns to make sure we can get everything that they need going until we have the admin.
 So we're going to do contract administration out of our office until such time as there's a staff person. Well, the role, I think the question about the program manager contract manager, I will continue to be approving the travel authorization forms and the reimbursement part. That's the extent of my involvement there. You have to do that as the contract officer. Mayor, I appreciate that this is a hearing that has a very specific focus. You've been involved.
 you've given people wide latitude to bring up other issues, and they're important issues. I guess, Ellen, I would like a commitment that after the mediation, you come back and brief counsel individually as to the status of
 of that proceeding and next steps just so we can be full partners in making the next decision. Absolutely. I appreciate that direction and involvement. And could you address the concern raised by someone earlier that there could be some agreement reached in mediation that is not acceptable to all the parties? Well, I...
 comment was that the Albina Ministerial Alliance and potentially other parties may not be in accord with whatever is agreed to. The
 When the Albina Ministerial Alliance first filed its motion to intervene in federal court, the city's position was that we did not object to Judge Simon exercising his discretion to grant them full party status. Judge Simon declined to do that, and he instead made them an amicus rather than an intervener defendant. He did make the Portland Police Association an intervener defendant. The consequence of that is that they do not have a right to appeal. And so, um,
 they are not parties to the appeal and the mediation that is resulting from the appeal. So to the extent that they would object to an order, that certainly wouldn't be our intent, but the intent of the mediation is for the three parties that are actual parties to the appeal to come up with processes and procedures since they are the ones that are subject to Judge Simon's order. Okay.
 And what's the informal way then that you intend to bring other interested parties like the AMA into the decision-making process? I think we'll look to you all for your guidance about how you would like for that to happen. Okay. Other questions, concerns, follow-up items? I think we captured the ones that I had notes about. At any rate, good. Thank you all very much.
 Unless there's further discussion, then we should take a roll call on the first of these ordinances. Is Justice DeMunis still here? He left. I believe he still is. No, he was here for a while. So we should take a roll call on item 40 as amended. Fritz? Well, there have been references to a number of police.
 issues across the country. And I was struck by the difference between what we're doing here today and what we have been doing in the settlement agreement and what I've seen on television with New York police officers turning their backs on their commissioner and on their mayor. Here we have acknowledged that we have been
 not met the expectations of our community and we want to do better and we want to keep people safe and that we are approaching this in a collaborative manner with a settlement agreement where now the three parties are committing to work together and We are hiring an outside oversight compliance officer To be the entity that says whether or not the city is complying and has met its goals whether the police and
 Bureau is meeting those goals. And so I want to make it very clear that the COCL and the COAB are the oversight for the City Council. They are going to be providing multiple opportunities for community input and that's
 where the first line of community members who are satisfied or dissatisfied with what the police bureau is doing and has done, that's where people need to go first. I hope that people will not wait until September to go talk to Judge Simon again,
 before engaging in this whole process. I'm very encouraged that we have over 50 applications for the community oversight advisory board already. And I was thinking that we were not going to get very many until the last day because I'm a procrastinator. I usually don't get things in until the deadline.
 So I hope that we get double that. It's amazing that we have so many people in our community, so many great people who are willing to step up to do a highly visible and highly complex and very time-consuming task. The expectation is probably 6 to 10 hours a month at least.
 least for the members of this advisory board. I appreciate that we're going to have a selection committee and the Human Rights Commission and the Commission on Disability who will be selecting 10 of the 15 community members and that is again a good process.
 And so I'm hopeful and also worried. We do need to continue to work very, very hard. And I appreciate the engagement of folks who took time to come in today on a Wednesday afternoon to tell us your concerns, to point out the things that needs to be done. And I appreciate the work of the mayor's office and of the city attorney's office, as well as the willingness of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to be a part of this process. I. Fish? Yes.
 Mayor, I appreciate the conversation we've had today and on the issue before us, Commissioner Fritz and I tag-teamed in meeting with all the teams, the people that are auditioning for the COCL position, and we both concluded that the Rosenbaum and Watson team was the strongest. I have a lot of confidence in Justice De Munoz as a member of this team.
 And to those who are concerned about the independence of this body, I hope that my nominee of A.L. Gordley signals that there really is a sincere effort and desire on the part of this council to appoint people of conscience with credibility in the community who we can count on to do what they think is right and not to do the bidding of this council. So I appreciate the discussion, and I appreciate the work of staff in addressing questions that came up.
 in hammering out this contract. Aye. Novick? I really appreciate the mayors and Commissioner Fritz's work on this issue. I appreciate Commissioner Fish's inspired choice of Abel Gordley as a co-op representative. I appreciate the hard work of everybody in the community over a period of years that have brought us to this point. I appreciate the work of all the city staff who have been working on this. And I'm really looking forward to the next year when the COCL and the co-op can start COCLing and co-oping up a storm. Aye. Hales? Aye.
 Some of you that have been in my office know that I'm a neat desk guy. There are messy desk people and neat desk people, and they both find ways to function in the world. And I'm one of those people that function best if my desk is relatively clean. And there's occasionally a calendar sitting on it and maybe my iPad, and there's one document that never leaves my desk.
 even though most of that desk is glass surface, and that is the Department of Justice settlement. And it's in a white binder, and it's all marked up, and there are Post-it notes and tabs sticking out. And it's there not just for symbolic reasons, but because it's really important, and it's really long, and it's really detailed, and it's only partially implemented. There's part of it that we're doing well. There's part of it that we haven't done yet.
 And there's all of it that needs to be monitored by the United States Department of Justice and reported to the judge annually as the agreement requires. I'm very heartened about some of the progress that we've made in implementing this agreement because, of course, the police bureau started implementing this agreement before it was finalized, before it was approved.
 And that was the right thing to do. And I see already the results of some of that progress in what happens every day and every night in the city. I get these daily situation reports from the police bureau. One of the first ones this year, I believe it was January 4th, was a report of one of our officers heroically ending a suicide attempt and getting a citizen to treatment who was in a mental health crisis. That's not unusual. Right.
 It's probably a little unusual that it took four days for the first one to show up because it happens almost every day. And I'm very proud of that work. I'm proud of that officer. And that's what we have a right to expect under this agreement and under just the expectation that our police officers are there to help people. And that is my expectation. And please don't interrupt me. Every day, every day, I hear reports that people... Go, go, go, please. So it's our job...
 to help people and I see it happening. And it needs to happen more. Now, there are pieces of that agreement that we've made no progress as yet. We do not yet have a facility where our police officers can take people who are in a mental health crisis other than an emergency room or a jail.
 And the Department of Justice agreement specifically calls out for the city and its partners, the state of Oregon and Multnomah County and the private health care system, to put that facility into operation. And you will hear a lot from me and from this council about the need to get on with that and get that work done because that's a critical piece of the system.
 We are not responding with the right vehicle, and we're not taking people to the right facility, even if the officers are doing a better job of handling people in a mental health crisis. So I'm fervent about this agreement. You will see the Police Bureau continue to over-comply with its requirements. Base compliance is not good enough. We're going to over-comply with this agreement because that's, again, what the community has a right to expect. This piece of having an independent...
 compliance officer and community liaison with people who are eminently qualified nationally and eminently credible locally doing this important work independent of direction and control of the Portland City Council is a very important part of this agreement. I'm very proud of the work that our city attorney's office and my staff have done to get this before the council in a timely way. I'm very happy to approve this contract. And the second item, please. I've got to pay for it. Chris?
 I'm really proud to be working on this with our community. We have a chance to do better, and we must take it. Aye. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you all very much, and we're recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m.