Would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Salzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. So we have a package of items this afternoon. Why don't you read both 25 and 26, and we'll deal with them in turn. Okay.
 Item 25, accept the City of Portland 2016 Federal Legislative Agenda. Item 26, accept the City of Portland 2016 State Legislative Agenda. Okay. I want to call up Martha Pellegrino and her team in the relevant order to go through both of these. And I have a substitute.
 It is for both right Martha. That's correct mayor. So I want to move the hopefully everyone has the substitute substitute for the federal legislative agenda If I can have a second for that, we'll have the substitute language in front of us any objections to that So we have to take a potion take a vote to accept the substitute and then have the hearing Ritz. Hi fish. I
 Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hayes? Aye. Okay. Now we're in order. Great. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, Martha Pellegrino. I'm the Director of Government Relations. My team and I are very pleased to be here today to present the 2016, we'll begin with the federal legislative agenda for your consideration and acceptance.
 So I'll begin today with just brief remarks about the process used to develop both of the agendas and then walk through some of the changes since council met in a work session on December 1st. And with me to help answer questions at the end is Niels Tilstrom, our federal relations manager.
 So the process for building these agendas began back in August and September when we solicited potential legislative concepts from the bureaus and offices and then we then worked closely with legislative liaisons in each of the bureaus to help vet these concepts for inclusion of the draft agendas. This vetting included outreach to our federal and state legislative delegations as well as to community groups, business groups and other local governments to find potential areas of alignment.
 During that time, the state legislature also met for two sets of legislative days in Salem in September and November. And these meetings gave us a sense of what the universe of bills and concepts would look like. And given the limited time constraints and bill constraints of a short 35-day legislative session, it really helped narrow the universe of what would be possible in the 2016 session. Next week, incidentally, we'll be back in Salem for the January legislative day's
 and that will, they're already hearing scheduled on several of the proposed city priorities. In addition, that's when the bill stack will be introduced, so we'll have about two weeks before the official kickoff of the session on February 1st to really be able to dig through some of these pieces of legislation and what their impacts will be on the city.
 so turning first to the federal agenda the report you have before you is substantially similar to what was considered at the work session and includes that feedback that you provided to at the work session and subsequent to the to the session so the drafts have also been available on our website for public review there are eight top priorities leading with housing and homelessness
 Two new priorities were added at your request, including gun violence prevention and federal protected sick time. So just going through the change memo you have before you, on page one of the agenda, the affordable housing section was amended to include a request of the administration so that local governments and we can have more flexibility about how we administer federal housing programs.
 The climate change section was updated to include action from the 21st Conference of Parties in Paris and includes support for a federal carbon tax. The gun violence prevention priority includes support for federal actions to close loopholes and background checks. This also includes the support for the president's executive order announced earlier this week.
 The item also includes action to prevent those on federal no-fly lists or terror watch lists from obtaining firearms, as well as improvements to the mental health services, protections for victims of domestic violence, and research to track and report gun violence. Turning to page two, this priority includes the new federal sick time item, and this closely mirrors an issue that was in the city's 2015 federal agenda.
 On page three, the federal brownfields tax incentive was moved up in the agenda to the investing in infrastructure section. And also on page three, the levy-ready Columbia item was added. Again, this is an issue that's been on past agendas, but the work is ongoing with the Army Corps of Engineers.
 Turning to page 4, the Columbia River Treaty was added to the Water, Parks, and Environment section, also an issue that has been ongoing. Page 5, there's a new item on sanctuary cities. This was an issue that was flagged during the work session. Also on page 5, the Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grant Program was updated to highlight seismic and other natural hazard mitigation projects.
 And then on page seven, the domestic violence prevention item was updated to include a piece on preventing homelessness among victims of domestic violence. And lastly, a new item was added urging Senate ratification of CDAW, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. So that's just a quick overview of the changes since the work session. And at this point, we'd be happy to answer any questions on the federal agenda. Thank you.
 Tell us, I mean, I understand what it means at a visceral level, but tell us what it means for us to support the President's executive order on gun violence. How might that be made real? So one of the things we have found, and thinking about the administration's Clean Power Plan, I think is a really good example, where –
 The administration is doing things by executive order that are very important to us locally, and that is trying to move things forward even when Congress is maybe not the best body to deliberate on these issues right now. One of the ways that it could be helpful is to have a number of cities in support of the executive order if there were legal action against the president, and there's been a number of –
 times when Portland has signed on to amicus briefs in order to support the president. So I could see that as being an example of a way that Portland could come forward. Also opportunities potentially through the U.S. Conference of Mayors or National League of Cities where Portland can go on record in support of the president. Are there any implementing actions that we should think about here?
 I think that we'll be able to tell that soon. The announcement just came out this week, and so it's something we'll be tracking very closely, and I assume we'll be hearing more about it in D.C. in a couple weeks. Yeah, okay. So you and I should maybe circle back to the Council on that. That would be great. If there's things that we actually should do, in addition to being ready to defend the President's ability to issue an executive order within the scope of his authority, we also might want to do some things locally that are congruent with that or that support that in terms of policy.
 what happens here at the local level. So obviously our ability to deal with guns is heavily prescribed by state law, but nevertheless we ought to be an active partner if we have an opportunity to be. Martha, I have a question. It seems to me that wherever possible it's a good idea for us to be supportive of major initiatives of members of our federal delegation. And Senator Merkley has been a champion of ENDA, and it's not –
 It's not on our – I don't see it on the list. Thank you. I know it's something that we support in other ways, and I'm mindful of your admonition that we should not turn this into a Christmas tree of asps and ornaments. But what's your view of adding ENDA, or what is ENDA's status if we don't add it?
 I think it's the Employer Non-Discrimination Act that Senator Merkley took over from Senator Kennedy seeking to provide non-discrimination at the federal level for the LGBTQ community. And it's something that Senator Merkley has been a real leader in Washington on and obviously something we care about. So just your thoughts on that.
 Sure. I'm actually glad you raised that particular piece of legislation because that's an example of where the city of Portland took action before either of the state government, and of course the federal government hasn't, but the state government adopted their bill in 2007. At that time, Senator Merkley was Speaker of the House, and so he was able to take that policy to Washington, D.C. That particular piece of legislation, this council has encouraged Senator Merkley on and has sent letters thanking him for his work on it,
 I think the reason it's not on the agenda is frankly that just nobody submitted it this year. It would be a very easy add since it's been part of – I didn't catch the – I'm sorry. It's just no one submitted it for inclusion this year. But it would be a fairly easy addition to include because it has been something that's been a part of council's past agendas. Well, also because it's a priority for one of our senators, we don't have to – we can just align, but knowing that –
 unlikely to pass in this Senate. But, Mayor, I would at some point urge that we include support for ENDA on our package. Okay. This would be a good point. I mean, why don't we add that? I would move, and this would be towards the end. This would be a...
 Okay. So Commissioner Fish moves the addition of support for ENDA to our . . . COMMISSIONER DIXON Steve, we're going to have to take that . . . COMMISSIONER DIXON Second. COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON . COMMISSIONER DIXON .
 We want to support our junior senator and his efforts to get federal legislation. So it would be back in the policy positions section under the relevant...
 area, which would be healthy and equitable communities, I assume. Yep, and I would suggest we just add it under the Convention of the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women item and add that to that. And what we can do is, would you like to develop language now, or what's your preference, Mayor? I think we can count on you to develop language if you prefer to. Great. Any further discussion about that addition, that amendment? So roll call to accept that amendment, please. Fritz?
 Aye. Fish? Aye. Salzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hayles? Aye. And Martha, I had just a question, if I could. We have as one of two of our legislative priorities involve areas where we're concerned that something bad might happen. So we're playing defense, not offense, if you will. And one of them has to do with municipal bonds.
 and Senator Wyden has been exploring alternatives to the current situation, including potentially a cap on the deductible interest, which would quite dramatically change the market for municipal bonds and would have an impact on interest rates. And then any changes to LT2 that would impact the waiver that we have, being the only city in the country that has a waiver from the treatment option. I know these are prudent things to have in there as sort of, you know,
 Is there anything that in this year's, in what you're hearing in Washington about this year and the upcoming session that gives us any additional concern that there could be progress on either changing the ground rules on municipal finance generally and LT2 regulatory?
 So there has been some discussion of whether tax reform would come up in this coming year. And if tax reform comes up in Congress, I expect municipal bonds will be a part of that discussion. So I think it is important for this council to continue to signal to our delegation that please don't tie our hands on how we fund infrastructure, whether it's water, sewer, transportation, or otherwise. It's also the tool that's used to build schools and any other type of public building. So...
 You know, having said that, it being a presidential year, Congress won't be meeting as often as they normally do. And the ability to do big things is very difficult to do in a presidential election year. So my level of concern is not extraordinarily high. Although in addition to one of the members of our delegation, it was something the administration has signaled that they wanted to do early on in their term. And so when you had the Democratic administration and Democratic members of our delegation,
 trying to roll back financing options that's why it's important for the city to be rigorous in its opposition to making changes to that on the lt2 issue the epa has been involved in doing periodic review of of the lt2 rule it's something that we are monitoring and the water bureau is closely monitoring and if there are any changes or any new rule language that's something we would obviously very quickly bring to the city council
 So it's something we're monitoring and are watching, but we're not expecting major changes in the coming year. Well, we might just be the only city in America that's impacted by a more stringent rule, and we already do robust testing in order to be in compliance with our waiver. So good. But those are regular features of our agenda because we're trying to make sure that a bad thing doesn't happen. That's right. So thank you. Other questions, comments, additions?
 Anything else you want to add? No. Great. Thank you very much. Thanks. So is there anyone who wants to testify on this? Yes, there is. There's someone who wants to testify on this. So we'll give him the opportunity, and then we'll take up the action on this in the state program next. Good afternoon, Lightning. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Just a couple concerns I have on this is that one of the issues that I have on the climate change is obvious issues.
 that we want to divest in fossil fuel extraction companies. But I want to have a clear understanding that I want to start thinking more on where are we going to invest that money. And what I want to have an understanding is that I want to see divestment in fossil fuel extraction companies and investment in the affordable housing and homelessness companies.
 And I want to get thinking on that to start figuring out how we can do that with certain investment vehicles that will enable us to do that in the future. And why I say that, I want a smooth transitioning over from fossil fuel industry, but I also want to create jobs, create housing, and also decrease homelessness. And I want a little bit more thought put into that if I could possibly have that. Now, issue number two would be,
 on the levy-ready Columbia. We keep saying we're going to try to recertify that. I think we're past that point at this time when that was originally built, was protect farmland and farms. We need to start more calculations on the overall value of the airport, existing businesses around the airport, and obviously the population base of the people, right?
 I'm looking at more of a build new levee in phase one to protect the airport, and I want to have more studies again conducted on what the cost will be to build a new levee. I think now is the time to look at that. Now is the time to have discussions on the funding possibilities, and I'd like those discussions to take place. I think that will be one of the largest projects that we'll see in the Portland area.
 And I think we need to start looking at some serious numbers and the possibilities to build new and understand that now is the time to do that based upon the valuation of the Portland Airport, surrounding businesses, and their current population base that we have. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? All right, so a motion is in order to adopt the report. So moved. Second. Second. Okay.
 Any discussion? Roll call, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Thank you for your great work in helping us to assemble this document, as always. Aye. Salzman? Aye. Novick? Thanks so much to the team. Aye. Hales? Aye.
 Good work. And lightening on that point, I think the analysis that's underway now will help us determine whether we have to do improvements or replacements of those levies. I hope it's only improvements because replacements might be more expensive, but your points sound nevertheless. So we're getting that engineering work done now. Nevertheless, we're going to need federal support in order to make it happen. Thank you all very much. Aye. Okay.
 Okay, so let's move on to the state legislative agenda item number 26. We've already read it. So let's hear your report So hello again and with me is Elizabeth Edwards our state government relations manager and Andy Smith our senior associate and Turning to the state legislative agenda again The draft is very similar to what was brought to you for the at the December 1st work session on
 Again, the top priority in the state agenda is housing and homelessness. The four items in this priority, beginning with lifting the preemption on inclusionary zoning, request that the state give Portland more authority to address needs locally and that they not further intrude on local decision-making.
 The new item added to this list of the housing priority is opposing the extension of – or any extension of the preemption on local construction excise taxes, and that preemption is set to sunset in 2018.
 So then turning to page three, the climate change priority was amended to include more types of carbon reduction legislation. And you may have read that there was a deal struck between the environmental community and the utilities to drastically increase the amount of power generated by renewable resources by 2050 and phase out the use of coal power. So we're expecting a bill to come forward during the 2016 session that memorializes this agreement.
 On page four, the transportation and funding safety item, this item was updated to explicitly call out support for city vehicle registration fees. And lastly, on page five, worker protections was added to the list of examples of preemptions that the city would vigorously oppose. So that's just a quick run through of the changes on the state agenda. And all three of us are available to answer questions.
 Yeah, I think particularly given the discussion yesterday about the City Club's report and the need to not be held back from adopting local solutions, that's very helpful to have that in there. Martha, I have a question on page one under affordable housing and homelessness. Under the lifting the preemption on inclusionary zoning, my sense is that we need to give you as broad a charge as possible since there's a lot of moving pieces here. Okay.
 and there's even some talk, if this thing gets bogged down, of doing a Portland-only solution. In light of that and in light of the complexity of this issue, why is there the qualification at the end of this paragraph about wanting to address workforce housing since ultimately how we structure a program locally once the preemption is lifted is a matter of the council and the community to shape, and it could be different.
 some combination of extremely low-income housing, workforce housing, and any number of things. But I'm just curious, why are we circumscribing and prejudging what it might look like by referring to workforce housing when the council has yet to take up how we'd even structure this once the preemption is lifted?
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. As you're aware, there have been a number of runs at this piece of legislation over a number of years, and none of which have been successful. This year, the bill is being taken up in the Senate by Senator Michael Dunbro, who chairs the Senate Workforce Committee. And there's an interest in crafting state legislation,
 to help tie in with a workforce priority. I don't think that that would necessarily restrict what council would choose to do with that. But the reason why it's framed that way is to really give a different message
 The message really being that we want people to be able to live in the cities in which they work. And really trying to simplify what the message has been on inclusionary housing over some number of years and getting a number of labor unions involved and really expanding the tent. So I don't know if there's any, I don't believe there's any intent to restrict how it would be implemented, but really it's a way to approach the issue of the session that's a bit novel than in prior sessions.
 Okay, but I just want to be clear. We could be talking about deeply subsidized units. We could be talking about focusing on low-income adults, very poor families. We could be talking about working families. We could be going up to 100% MFI.
 My preference, and I hope the council's preference, is that we have as clean a process in the legislature as possible with as few sideboards as possible, where there's a lifting of the preemption so that we can then legislate. I'm afraid that if we start putting too many sideboards on it, then this gets hijacked by whatever the flavor du jour in the legislature is, and that means we're limited in how we can use this tool. And I think this council's been...
 pretty consistent like most recently in discussion about the housing investment fund of putting as few sideboards and strings on the money that we use so that the council can decide how to allocate it within the framework of the city county home forward plan. I didn't regard this language as a sideboard. It's just to me, it was just explanatory that.
 this is why we want to do this. Exactly how we do it will, I hope, be our prerogative once they do indeed lift the preemption. I think tactically the only...
 The only sideboard that I would be interested or willing to entertain would be if it's multi-family only as opposed to multi-family and single-family. That's what we really need. We don't particularly need inclusionary zoning on single-family development in Portland because it isn't going to do us very much good. But inclusionary zoning on multi-family development will do us a lot of good. So the legislature got all tangled up in that issue the last time.
 deliberately or accidentally, and we don't want them to get tangled up in that issue. We want them to set us free, but if they have to only set us partially free, please set us free for dealing with this in apartments. Well, I completely agree, Mayor, and, of course, the virtue of focusing on rental versus homeownership is you have fewer forces allied against us.
 Home builders, for example, have a different view of this on rental than they do around home ownership. What I'm triggering off of is that we have qualified the need around workforce housing. Workforce housing is an area of need, but it is not exclusively our area of need, and ultimately the council can decide in crafting
 and inclusionary housing policy, what kind of housing we want to incentivize. Yeah, I don't see anything wrong with striking that last sentence from the description, because it is just descriptive. I mean, it doesn't – to me, it doesn't –
 doesn't improve the clarity of our position. So unless Dan has a question. I would strike it, and you could come back to us and say the realities of Salem are that the only way this is going to pass if it's tailored a certain way, and then we can adjust our strategy. But I just don't think it's appropriate for us to prejudge. Last time it got hung up on homeownership and all kinds of sideboards and lots of inside the Salem Beltway politics about defining what a win looks like, even though it had virtually no currency locally here.
 And my view is the cleanest kind of preemption to give us the latitude to craft our own is what we should be doing. And I would move to strike the last sentence so we're not circumscribing what we're trying to do. Do you have any concern about doing that? I think it's fine to strike the last sentence. What I will say is that the –
 The prospect of doing a clean lift that includes both apartments and condos and single family, it would be very difficult. I don't think you're going to get a clean – there will need to be some degree of sideboards, I think, in order to get to that, particularly rentals or apartments. And so the –
 The starting point of the bill is drafted is very similar to what the speaker endorsed last session, but makes very clear that it applies to regardless if it's a single family home or a condo or an apartment. It applies, which gives this council the maximum amount of authority to develop an inclusionary housing policy that fits for Portland.
 Yeah, but even without the last sentence, that's our position. That's fine, yeah. I mean, I don't see anything wrong with removing that. Sure. I think, again, you're right. It's not going to be – we're not going to get a universal lift. I would be surprised if we got a universal lifting of the preemption. But the one lifting that we want clean is multifamily development in all its forms, which includes condos and apartments and so forth.
 all right is there a second for commissioner fish's motion any further discussion about removing the last sentence roll call on that please Ritz I fish I Salzman Novick I hails okay any other any other suggestions for amendments to this document anything else from you and your team
 I don't think so. One thing I would like to flag is that on January 28th, we have a legislative breakfast set up with the council and our legislative delegation. It was extremely successful last year, and that will be an opportunity for you to present these legislative priorities to the delegation tomorrow.
 I also would just like to thank my team for the very long hours spent developing the agendas and the legislative liaisons, both in the bureaus and your offices, who really work tirelessly with us to not only develop the priorities, but implement them once session starts. So I just want to end with a big thank you. Good work. And on Saturday afternoon at 3 o'clock, the Portland Legislative Delegation is having a,
 community forum on housing affordability so we'll have a chance to make sure they know this is important to us then okay thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item yes my name is lightning I represent lightning watchdog PDX guess my main concern is on the transportation funding on the gas tax I reviewed the City Club report I felt it was wasn't complete
 And I have questions on the $205 million per year that they're saying will be needed for the next decade. I want a tremendous amount of more data to substantiate that statement. One of the issues I have also is that when we get to so many different things placed out to take a look at on the transportation needs, I think a lot of people are going to start to push back aggressively on this issue.
 And I think we need to have an understanding that due to the fact of the amount of deferred maintenance, tremendous amount over many, many years that we're at this point, is that we have to also have the private sector come in and begin to fund this. And what I mean by that is that I really think an opportunity within the city limits to maybe have Google, Uber step in and,
 get exclusive rights to driverless vehicles throughout the city and pay that over the years at a certain payment for that right. I think that it's needed at this time and apply all that money again toward maintenance of the streets and have an understanding with them that we are in need of a tremendous amount of money.
 And I'm hoping the gas tax will pass at $0.10. Again, I wanted a little bit more debate on where that $0.10 was set, why it was set at $0.10. I myself would have possibly been a little bit more aggressive on that and went up to like $0.15 and then tried to bring in some private sector money to step up and understand that we definitely need assistance on maintaining these streets due to neglect of many years in the past to get to this point.
 So, again, my position is we need more data from the city club to substantiate this $200 million a year, and we need more assistance from the private sector. And I'm hoping Google and Uber will step up and provide that additional assistance. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? And a motion, please, to accept this report. Second. For the discussion. Roll call.
 Well, thank you very much to our whole team. As usual, you do a spectacular job from start to finish, and I very much appreciate all of your diligent work.
 I think the taxpayers of Portland and the citizens of Portland need to know that, in our case, lobbyists is a really good thing and that you do a fantastic job both at the state level and in Washington, D.C. So thank you for all of the work that you do on behalf of our citizens because we've been very successful because you've been very successful. Thank you. Hi. Hi.
 Fish? Martha, I'm very proud of this agenda, and I look forward to being invited to join you in D.C. to lobby on behalf of this agenda. Aye. Salzman? Thank you very much for your hard work. I look forward to being invited to Salem to work on this agenda. Can't wait. Aye. Novick? I, too, look forward to going to Salem to see the new Beltway. Thank you very much. Aye. Hales?
 If Salem needs a beltway, there has been a lot of growth in Oregon. All right. Thank you all very much, and we're recessed until tonight at 6 p.m. at Self-Enhancement, Inc. Someone contacted me, and I guess I was... Meeting of the Portland City Council. We're going to get started right away because we have a lot of people here. So welcome to a special meeting of the Portland City Council. It is January 7, 2016. Would you please call the roll as soon as she can get her microphone to work? You have to push the button. Here. Here. Here.
 Salzman? There we go. Novick? Hayles? Here. Welcome, everybody. So we're going to be fairly brisk in our opening comments because we know a lot of you are signed up to speak. Thanks everyone for coming and giving your input tonight. This is the fourth of our hearings on the Comprehensive Plan. I'll talk a little bit about the process.
 and then set the stage for your testimony tonight. First, some thank yous. I want to thank my colleagues for being at the previous hearings. I actually had to miss a couple of them because of being out of town, and I have also special thanks for my staff and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff for painstakingly taking notes and going over those notes with me from all the testimony that was delivered at those hearings.
 I want to lay out some logistics here for tonight there are two related items on the comprehensive plan that are before us we're in a continued public hearing that actually started at the previous hearings the first of those items adopts our new and amended supporting documents which include a report from the Community Involvement Committee
 a revised economic opportunities analysis, a growth scenarios report, and the citywide systems plan. In other words, the undergirding documents are item 27. Item 28 is the comprehensive plan itself, which includes goals and policies, land use map changes, and a list of significant projects. We will hear testimony tonight first on item 27, the underlying documents, and then proceed to item 28. Thank you.
 I want to acknowledge the receipt of a recent bundle of testimony submitted. Any additional electronic testimony that we receive by the end of tonight's hearing will also be added to the record. Now, this is really important. Wow, it got louder, so I can sound important. It's very important that you stick to our time limits, and we're going to be pretty tough on you because we are going to set time limits of two minutes apiece, and even with those, we're probably not going to be able to hear from everyone tonight because of the number of people signed up.
 So your testimony is most effective if you are to the point and if you don't, you have no need to repeat someone else's previous testimony. You don't have to do that. You can certainly write to us or email us or let us know how you feel about the issues in front of us. But please try to avoid being repetitive so that we get all the issues in front of the city council.
 It is very helpful that you do be specific. If you are talking about a specific policy in the comp plan, you are talking about a specific site, give us the address. If you are talking about a specific project, again, give us as much specificity as you can.
 In a moment, we'll talk about Spanish interpretation. Lastly, I want to go over some next steps in the process. The council has three scheduled work sessions at which we are going to digest and discuss the testimony that we've heard, and also council members will be proposing amendments based on what we've heard from the community. So we will be proposing amendments to the plan.
 Those sessions will be on January 26th, February 2nd, and February 23rd. These are public meetings, but they're work sessions. We're not going to be taking testimony. We're going to be deliberating and debating and voting on amendments. So people can obviously attend those meetings or watch via the web broadcast. And I'm asking my colleagues and myself, of course, to bring forth and identify the amendments that they'd like to be considered in that first work session.
 So tonight is the last of the initial hearings. We'll schedule a hearing in April on the proposed plan as amended by the council's proposals. The evidentiary record will be reopened at that time. We'll take action on those amendments and hopefully take a final vote by the end of April. So those are the procedures. I think we have an announcement about Spanish language interpretation, so please come forward and do that for us.
 I think it's that way. Spanish language interpretation is available tonight. The headsets are available at the reception desk. Interpretación al español está disponible esta noche. Los audífonos están disponibles en la recepción afuera. Gracias.
 thank you very much gracias so um with that i'm going to open it up for my council colleagues to make any opening comments they have we again very much appreciate your attendance tonight this is one of the most important things that we do as a community the fact that you're here this evening illustrates that so thank you for attending and commissioner novick i think you had some comments uh i just wanted to briefly talk about one thing which is that
 We in Portland love our neighborhoods and we've had a lot of testimony to the effect that I like my neighborhood just the way it is. Can you make sure that it doesn't change? And people are particularly upset about new apartment buildings springing up in their neighborhoods. And that's perfectly understandable. If you love your neighborhood, you don't want it to change.
 We also in Portland care deeply about the environment. Eighty-eight percent of Portlanders believe that we're going to need to change our lifestyles in order to address climate disruption. And unfortunately, to some extent, the desire to avoid change in our neighborhoods, the desire to reduce carbon emissions are kind of at odds. Because one of the things that we can do to reduce carbon emissions is to live closer together. If 7,000 people live within walking distance of each other, a grocery store that people can walk to will spring up to serve them.
 If there's a lot of people in one place, it makes transit more viable. The reason New York City subway system is viable is that there's a lot of people per stop. So I just wanted to flag that conflict and point out that, I mean, to some extent we as a country might be asking our citizens, including us,
 to sacrifice in the fight against climate disruption the same way people were asked to sacrifice in World War II with rationing and setting people off to war. And to some extent, the lifestyle change that some of us might have to make in order to do our part to address climate disruption is simply tolerating the apartment building down the street. So I just wanted to get that off my chest. Thank you.
 Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I'll dispense with my opening statement, but I did want to, on behalf of the council, thank Self-Enhancement, Inc. and Tony Hobson for hosting us. And this, I think, is the largest turnout we've had. So we're delighted everyone took time to come out and share their views with us tonight.
 Good evening. They are very difficult to manage these microphones. Good evening everybody. I'm Amanda Fritz. Happy New Year. Thank you for being here. I'm currently in charge of Portland Parks and Recreation and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. The entire council works together on the comprehensive plan. And indeed, the comprehensive plan as proposed has a lot of policies about a lot of different
 different aspects of city government and our whole city. So you're welcome to comment on specific map changes or specific policy changes that you're recommending. And thank you very, very much for being here.
 So I want to get started first by asking our host, Tony Hobson, to come up and welcome us to your facility and all the good work you do here. So come on up, Tony. I know you wanted to make some remarks, and then we have a panel from the community that's going to kick off the testimony. So welcome. Welcome to your house. Thank you. Thank you.
 Didn't know we were going so early, but appreciate it. Here we go. We good? We all right. So first of all, just want to say welcome. Welcome to our council members and welcome to all of the folks behind me from the public here to Self-Enhancement, Inc. It's nice that we have this opportunity to share with you. We're glad that you've given us this opportunity to have a hearing here in this specific community.
 We sit here in Unthank Park, Self-Enhancement Unthank Park. And I think that's key in the fact that Unthank Park was named after Dr. DeNorval Unthank, one of the first African-American doctors in this city, in this state. The park was named after him because in this particular community, when the name was Park, this was one of the most highly populated African-American areas in this entire state.
 So the fact that the park was named after him had a lot to do with that particular piece. When many of you drove in to this community, you probably saw a lot of new construction. That new construction, by some of our estimates, has pushed out close to 20,000 folks out of this community into other communities. And the question is, do we care?
 I know there is a lot of people behind me in this audience that have a lot of things that they want to share with you all tonight. This particular meeting was put in this community because there's some very serious concern about some of the gentrification and the development that has happened in this community and some of the issues that we are now looking at in the comp plan that can help speak to that. I run this agency, SCI. I question now, given our services and the fact that we spent $10 million to build this building,
 whether or not what we went in business to do, serve poor children and children of color, will we even be able to serve them in this facility 10 years from now?
 a lot of money that's been spent, a lot of infrastructure that's been put together. I also think about Portland Public Schools and all the money that they put in to trying to figure out ways that they could better educate children of color and low-income children, and the fact that many of those individuals aren't here. A school like Jefferson High School that used to be close to 80% African Americans is now down to about 59%.
 A lot of changes. Health care. You got Legacy down the street. You got Kaiser. These individuals that have put stuff into their resources to help support folks of color and poor folks. And now all of those folks are leaving, going somewhere else. So a lot of resources that have been spent. All we want to do is to be able to say to you that in this comp plan, there are some policies that we think can help.
 that situation. Can't go all the way back, can't change, but we can do some things that can help. So in terms of the policies, there are a few that I think I would like to at least bring your attention to. 2C, use community benefits agreement as an anti-displacement tool that would help engage the community early to create developer agreements that benefit community members.
 3C, create permanently affordable housing in market rate developments. Alberta, Mississippi, Williams, Vancouver. Man, every day we look at these high rises go up.
 Is it possible that we could say that maybe 20 or 30 percent of those developments could be affordable housing to give some of our people that have been pushed out an opportunity to either come back and other folks who live in this area the opportunity to stay? 2B, require mitigation for displacement.
 Past policy decisions continue to drive black displacement. Yes, mitigate anticipated displacement, but first, mitigate active displacement. All of these things you have in front of you. There's many others that I think we need to look at. At the end of the day, we just want to make sure that our folks that have been pushed out have the opportunity to
 to potentially come back. And those that are still here, that we could put some support and services around them having an opportunity to stay. But the third piece is to also provide support
 jobs, employment, and wealth creation so that folks of color can afford to perhaps buy into some of these high rises that are being built. I mean, this should not only be about low income and affordable. It should be about across the board. And that only happens if we're talking about some jobs and some wealth creation. I would want to say this as we look at all of the push to the east. If you look at the last data that I looked at,
 Portland Public Schools still has more African-American children than all five school districts in the East combined. So as we continue to push resources that direction, you need not forget that there are still a large number of poor folks who still live over here that need those services. And we have built a tremendous infrastructure to get that done. And now you're asking us to build a whole new infrastructure today.
 to go out there. Both of these things need to happen. I will stop there and I have some friends with me. We're glad that you are in our community and we're glad that you're giving this community an opportunity to share with you some of the things that they have experienced over the past several years in hopes that as you make your decisions on this comp plan, you remember some of these words.
 Hi, thank you for the opportunity. My name is Rachel Hall, and I wanted to share my story really fast. I grew up in north, northeast Portland all of my life, my family. And when it came time for me to move out of my parents' home, the only place that I could find was out in East County. The disappointing factor about that is there wasn't, at the time that we moved out there, there wasn't enough people there.
 Out there that looked like me and there was no services to service us out there So I kept my roots here in North Northeast community because I didn't want to disrupt my children's Schooling and the things that they are used to and the people that they're used to seeing that looked like them so I did this traveling back and forth for 13 years and
 still working in this area but living out there, literally only just laying our heads down. We wouldn't get home at night until 10.30 at night because, you know, after the school activities and everything like that. And I've just now moved back into the community, and my fear is that I'm not going to be able to afford to continue to stay in the community because there's more, like, opportunities...
 home ownership and things of that nature out in like Park Row's area, things like this. That's concerning to me because, again, this is where my roots are. This is where I've always lived, and I don't want to have to be uprooted again because I can't afford to stay in my own community. And that's concerning to me because...
 having to uproot so much is not a good thing. I want to be able to be stable. I want to be able to count on those things. And I'd like to see in the plans coming forth more business opportunities for African-American and minorities. Housing is a very good piece, too. But when you're talking about people that are economically disadvantaged, there's many facets to that. And I'd like to see more...
 opportunities for business small business growth thank you thank you hi my name is Carolyn Smith and I want to talk about how you push people out in the southeast side where they need to be over here on this side
 because it's a long ways for those to come over here on this side to the doctor. They have their doctors and medical care over here on this side, and they don't have it on the southeast side. And they have no jobs out there for them or no housing where they could live comfortable out there at all.
 And they need also to be together because their schools are so far away. And like she was saying earlier, that they get home late at night and they have these activities here. And they have jobs and they get home late and everybody be tired and restless and don't want to get up.
 because it's so far way out and it's a long ways for the kids to get up and they be getting up early. And these activities they have, they don't show us where we could have like SEI out there. So we have to be over here on this side, come all the way over here on this side. Then they have their games and practices and all of that. And then don't want nobody want to help.
 and give those kids a chance and opportunities to be over here. Because they want to push them out here to this school when they need to be over here at this school where they was with their friends and family over here. Thank you, thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening. I am Nikenge Harmon Johnson, the President and CEO of the Urban League of Portland.
 The Urban League has served this community for 70 years. Our job at the League is to take the experiences we see and hear every day in the African American community through our direct services and organizing programs and translate those into policy that is vetted, facilitates systemic change, and creates better outcomes for all Oregonians. That's why I and my staff and members of the Urban League are here tonight. I will relate my comments to Chapters 2 and 3 of the Comp Plan.
 In the Urban League's resource document, The State of Black Oregon, of which you have heard me and my staff speak about on different occasions, our research is clear. High mobility and housing instability affects a child's education. It increases transportation costs, as you would have imagined from hearing our two previous speakers.
 It heightens stress levels of a community, too, including that of pregnant moms, which affects her health and the health of her unborn child, which ultimately affects the long-term health of the African American community in Portland. As we embrace what equity means, the policies we discuss tonight from the comp plan can serve as a tool for getting all of us to the outcomes we want to see. Stable communities, development without displacement,
 improved education outcomes, and ultimately a healthier Portland, the kind of place that I'd like to call home again. And I say that because many folks in this room will know that right now I call Salem home. Now I'm lucky. I grew up in Salem and Portland, so it's not so strange to me. But when making the choice to come back to Oregon a few years ago, I looked around this community, the place that I grew up, and said, you know what? This doesn't feel like home to me. I might as well be down in Salem.
 For folks in Portland who think that Salem is some far, far off land so strange to our town, think about what that means, that someone like me, who went to school at Tubman and Fabian and Vernon in this town, who works at the Urban League blocks from here, chooses to live in Salem rather than in Portland because community is closer to me there than it is here. That's the way this town has changed in the past 20 years.
 If we're to forge a progressive path worthy of our national reputation, then city leaders need to learn from community members and partners in direct service that know the most effective solutions are multifaceted. We need to think comprehensively and across policy areas. I will relate my comments to chapters two and three of the Comp Plan. First picture this. Imagine that we're on a sinking ship somewhere off the coast. We need a map, we need a way to mend our boat, and we need a compass.
 Without all three things, we're not going to find our way home, and we're lost. So the solutions that we need aren't any one thing but a multitude.
 And I want to be clear about something as well. This is not about a moral imperative. This is not something that we come before you today to ask that you do for black folks. We ask that you do this for Portland because this is the community that belongs to us all and the kind of place that we say we want to live requires that we do certain things to reach our goals together. To do so, all of these policies or tools must be supported and in place.
 This means allowing funding streams to tie affordable housing to job training and placement through community benefit agreements, CBAs. The comp plan's third chapter, recommendations C and E, call for this. Community benefit agreements are economic development tools that have been used for years and provide real results for communities. We need to move faster to make CBAs standard in Portland development work. I want to direct us to chapter two of the comp plan for a moment.
 It offers critical solutions on how to achieve development without displacement. Policies that include community development of the people and not just of the land. This means strengthening housing stability.
 and choice through policies. It also means wealth creation and neighborhood retail stability, the kinds of services that folks want to see in their neighborhoods to make it feel like home, so they don't have to travel quite so far to have services provided that folks who look like them or that tend to the needs of their culture and of their families. All this must be done with a racial justice filter and prioritization.
 Density, apartment buildings without required parking and skinny houses by themselves don't solve affordable housing needs. Just ask my staff who work blocks from here but live in the numbers. Chapter three of the comp plan calls for coordinated housing, economic development and public facility plans and investments to create an integrated community development approach to restore communities impacted by past decisions.
 In the past, city leaders made choices that led to changes in this community, where wealth was transferred from African Americans to others in Portland. You should not hesitate to overcorrect, to make amends for those past decisions. This isn't about spreading things fairly over all of us in Portland.
 Because that's not what we did 20 years ago. So what's going to get us to where we want to go may involve some overt correction, leaning one way more than another. And you should not be afraid to do so as city leaders because leadership is what it's called for. We need urban renewal policies that secure black businesses in inner north and northeast Portland through development, capital, subsidized leases, and location incentives. Other partners tonight may speak more about that.
 As you consider investments and supports for these policies, I want to challenge you to commit to a stable housing agenda that seeks to track and improve multiple outcomes. Income, affordability of rent or mortgage, utilities, property taxes, the ability to afford to maintain the condition of one's home, access to health care, as well as a feeling of safety, access to parks and green space, satisfaction with children's education, and connection with neighbors.
 All of those things that make a community feel like home. Those are all core components of both keeping people healthy and in their homes, as well as development without displacement. In order for us to focus and meet current demand, in addition to protecting our communities, and to prepare for the explosive growth that we're going to be seeing over the next 20 years, Portland's policies and investments must be comprehensive.
 What you hear tonight is our opportunity to invest in that process for all of us, not to merely continue to transfer wealth from African Americans to others. Thank you for joining us this evening in our community, and I want to thank the president of SEI for hosting us here tonight.
 So that was fine, but folks from now on, let's not applaud because our council rule actually is that we want everybody to speak. And I think everybody agreed with Nkingi, which is good, but somebody will probably say something that we disagree with tonight. So we ask that we not make demonstrations in terms of applause during council meetings. We'll make an exception for Nkingi because she's wonderful, thank you. Yes, thumbs up, waves of the hand are all fine. Please, go ahead.
 My name is Simon Williams, 43-year-old single father of three sons, two who have gone through SCI Academy here and been a member of this community since 1980.
 For some people in this community who knows, my grandmother, Sherry Hendrix, was a member of this community since 1945 and was a part of Vanport until it flooded in 1948, therefore influxed into the northeast Portland. And around 1955, she witnessed something and basically told me she was a living legend, basically. She worked in the shipyards, basically.
 And then realized that she left the South because she didn't want to work in the field, so she didn't necessarily want to do rivets and navyships, so she decided to go to school and be a teacher. And she was in the school district here for 53 years at Chief Joseph. And even after she retired all the way into her 90s, I was a teacher aide at Woodlawn Elementary School, in which she lived right across the street. What she did tell me growing up here when I got here from Brooklyn, New York, which is also a neighborhood very similar to Portland, was,
 that something happened when the flood happened and all the African Americans came out, and to be quite honest, white people were displaced because of that in the north-northeast area. She said that they want their neighborhood back. And she believed that, you know, due to the disparities of ghettoization, which usually happens when industries fail and white flight usually takes place and they leave African Americans in a concentrated community,
 with no jobs and no resources and inadequate health care, inadequate education and housing, they begin to create what you call a ghetto. And that's where the suburbs were created and so forth and so on. But the valuable homes, the valuable lands, and the valuable property is here in this area here. You know, you're just not going to find a house like you see across the street out in Hillsboro. It just isn't that way.
 So my grandmother told me that they want their neighborhood back. And of course, Northeast Portland had a very bad rap for a lot of years until, it was interesting Fred Myers used to be on Martin Luther King and Killingsworth. And as soon as it turned into a police department, that's when my grandmother said it's begun. And this neighborhood was policed, and it was policed to a point where I think it took about 25 years, but it's finally cleaned up.
 And with the cleanup comes redevelopment. And everybody knows gentrification is the redevelopment of an urban environment with middle-class aspirations, which often displace poor people and often people of color. And so that does not negate the 60 or 70 years of history that not all black people were drug addicts, not all black people were drug dealers, and a lot of our grandparents were homeowners.
 And the interesting thing is when those grandparents begin to die off and these children try to take over their homes, they can't afford them. Because the property taxes go up or basically the attitudes of those who are gentrifying and moving into these neighborhoods begin to look at us like visitors. I'll be quite honest, I walk down Mississippi oftentimes and people look at me like I'm a visitor. And the reality is I've been here for a lot longer.
 So I don't know, you know, what the policies are, the comprehensive plan. I just know the experience of being here. I went back to Brooklyn in September and realized that that's been gentrified too. You know, Bed-Stuy is not Bed-Stuy anymore. It's like everyone moved to New Rochelle. It's like the same here. Everyone moves to Gresham. Well, I don't know if you know in the 80s, Gresham was like the nice neighborhood. Now Gresham is a place you just don't want to be. So there's been a shift here, and yet...
 With that displacement, there are still histories, there are still services, and there are still anchors that are still in this neighborhood that don't service those people out in the eastern counties. Particularly, like Mr. Hobson said, there's a lot of African American kids in school here in the northeast area, but the representation of those who teach them being of color and like aren't there anymore.
 So, I think there needs to be policies about people being able to live closer to where they work, to be able to have teachers that don't have to travel all the way across town to teach in a school that they really don't want to be in. I'll be honest with you. I think there's a lot of school teachers who teach in predominantly black.
 schools of color where kids are primary of colors and they just really don't want to be there and it's not because they're malicious or Harmful. It's just there's a cultural. There's a there's just a cultural dynamic so You know, I really didn't know what I was gonna speak on other than just telling a little bit of story about my grandmother Being here. She passed away at 101 two years ago
 She had a, what is that, a centennial acknowledgement from the President of the United States. She's highly revered by Portland Public Schools.
 And I just think that there is a lot of community members in this community here who still exist that aren't being afforded or acknowledged for that legacy. The new Rose City Cab Company, which is one of the few only black companies still that exist between 15th and 16th in Alberta. I don't know how much longer they're going to last because our city allowed Uber to come in.
 And so even though there's three other cab companies that are a lot much larger, this being a sole proprietor African-American cab company which only has 19 cabs, how are they expected to survive when the city makes choices to allow Uber to come in? And so how long are they going to last? I mean, luckily they have enough property to open up food carts, but it's still people look at them as like they're visitors. So, yeah.
 I don't necessarily know what else to say other than be conscientious that there was a community that existed here before the community that exists here now came. So, thanks. Thank you very much. Good evening. Hi. My name is Tanisha Manning-Granville. I grew up here as well. I'm born and raised. Excuse me. My heart is beating very loudly, very fast. I didn't know I was going to speak either. But I'm hoping that...
 you will hear my heart. I grew up on these streets behind me before this building was even here. Played in this grass at Unthanked Park. Walked down the streets, ate from the alleys over here off of Haight and Gantenbein. In the summertime when the kids were playing we would eat the berries so we didn't have to go in and the grapes that used to be in the alleyway. Went to Humboldt School
 Went to Beaumont School and chose to go to Jefferson High School. A few generations before me, grew up and went to Jeff, and that was one of my goals. Graduated from Jefferson High School. Very proud of that. School of Champions, School of Pride. I am a product of my grandparents who migrated here in the Great Migration of Volley Manning and Georgia Manning.
 And they spent a lot of time in this neighborhood. This is the neighborhood, this is all I have known. Our roots were here. Everyone that I've known, their roots were here. I'm going to tell you a little story that I experienced not too long ago. I was just really perplexed as I would go into places where I know that many of the people behind here spend their money.
 I went one time down into Powell's bookstore. I've been all over to Barnes & Noble's, Starbucks. And one day I happened to go into Whole Foods, which is right on 15th. We grew up off of later on 15th and 16th and Fremont. Went into Whole Foods, and I just decided to stop one day. And I stood there, and I looked around, and I realized...
 Oh my god, this store, I've been in this store, but not this store. It was the store, three stores before this. It was before this store. And I looked around I said, you know what? This is weird. There is nobody in here that looks like me helping and there's nobody. So I decided to take a leap of faith. I went and asked for the manager. Manager wasn't in. They got me to the lead person and
 And she said, may I help you? I said, yeah. I said, you know, I come in this store often on my lunch breaks because I work for SEI. And I just happened to realize, you know, I was really bothered. There's nobody in here that looks like me. And I'm wondering why. I mean, this agency has a couple hundred people there.
 mixed, very mixed. They also visit Whole Foods and we spend our money there and she was like, oh well, you know, you're gonna have to talk to the manager about that. I'm the low person on the totem pole, but what I can tell you is we hire people who are qualified and I looked at her and
 And I said, let me get this straight. Let me repeat back to you what you just said. You hire people who are qualified? She said, yes, we hire people. I mean, just very matter of fact. She didn't mean any harm. Very sweet, sweetheart. And I said, so how qualified do you need to be to put some food on the shelf and money in the teal? And she said, I get your point. She said, but I'm not the person you need to talk to. And I said, okay, well, I'll come back.
 So I came back a few months later because I told her I was really bothered by that. And I happened to ask for the manager again, and again the manager wasn't in. So they gave me to another lead. And that person said, oh, yes, I was here when you asked that question. She said, and, you know, I'm the low person on the totem pole. You're going to have to talk to the manager about that. Man, when does the manager work?
 You know, so she said, but what I can tell you, it was her elevator speech, too. We hire people who are qualified. And again, I asked her the same question. Well, how qualified do you have to be to work here? And she said, that's a very good point.
 and I wish I could answer that question but I can't. I went to Powell's bookstore and I asked the same question and kind of got the same speech. I went to Barnes and Noble's at the Lloyd Center. When I graduated from Jefferson High School,
 I was happily crowned the Rose Festival Princess that year. I only say that because my grandfather, who I mentioned earlier, with such great pride, had pride when they used to hang our pictures up over the bridge at Lloyd Center. My grandfather said, I worked on that bridge, and never did I know that my granddaughter would be, her face would be on that bridge. Today, we are dealing with
 This feeling of not being qualified in our own neighborhood. I don't know, I know many of you have worked in your jobs for a long time, but I don't know how you would feel if someone came to you eventually one day and said, you know what, for no good reason at all, you're just no longer qualified.
 I work with families here. I'm a parent coordinator. I have families who cannot live in the community that they know. They go to agencies which are now saying that they can't live in this community because, oh, yeah, your voucher doesn't have the right zip code. What? When did the right zip code? Well, yeah, we figured if they can't afford to live in this community, then they need to live in the zip code that they can afford to live in.
 Something is wrong with that. And someone said it's not about justice, but there is, for me, this is about justice. It's about just us, and it's about justice, and justice parceled out is no justice at all. Just because we have places to live does not mean that's where we want to live. We want a community by choice. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening.
 My name is Michael Tette. I serve as the CEO at the Community Cycling Center, Benson High School, Class of 2000. As many of you know, we launched our bike share bikes today at the MLK Nike factory store. Bicycles were orange, just like Benson High School colors. Got to like that. And I remarked there and I'll remark here, it's great because finally we have bikes that we can all share.
 Bikes that we can deploy anywhere in a platform that can create accessibility for residents facing barriers to bicycle access. At the community cycling center, we believe that everyone deserves the right to experience the joy, freedom, and health benefits that bicycle access provides. And there's nothing like the proliferation of bicycle access to get more people on bikes. But bicycles are not enough to save us. We need city council to vote yes for the anti-displacement policies that are already in the comprehensive plan.
 I'll point you to section 2C and 3C. I want to urge council to vote to prevent the displacement of people of color and low income residents. I want you to vote to restore and strengthen communities harmed by gentrification and displacement. I want you to vote to expand access to affordable housing city wide. I want you to vote to make Portland great. And I want you to vote to ensure that all of the beauty that exists in this fair city of ours,
 this example for the rest of the country is able to be in the best possible condition for absolutely every single one of his residents. We got 68,500 kids in Portland Public Schools right now. What will they say of what we have done or what we have failed to do in this time?
 a simple question to ask and I know a difficult challenge to solve, but I have the confidence to know that you all can exercise the leadership to get it done. So I want to thank Mr. Hopson for hosting us here this evening and thank you all for your time and attention this evening. Thank you very much. We appreciate the panel very much. Wonderful grounding for our deliberations tonight, so thank you. Thanks Tony.
 All right, Sue, shall we turn to the sign-up sheet, please? Let us read the title real quick. Okay. And we're on item 27, correct? Go ahead. Remember, folks, we're going to take these two in turn, so if you're here to testify on one of them, please wait for that one if it's the second. So item 27. Item 27.
 Adopt new and amended supporting documents for an update of Portland's comprehensive plan, accept report of the citizen involvement committee. Okay, do we have people that are here to testify on the supporting documents? Okay. No. There you go. There we go. Okay, we'll take number one, two, three, and four, and they will be followed by five, seven, eight, and nine.
 What is she doing? Yes, maybe.
 Try this one. Thank you. So, folks, from now on, the clock will be running. You can see it to your left. And when the yellow light comes on, that means you have 30 seconds left. And when the red light comes on, that means please stop. And just bear in mind that the longer you go on after the red light goes on, it means that somebody else is probably not going to be able to testify at the end. So if you can abide by it, it's really helpful. Thank you. Mary Ann, please proceed.
 It was already red, okay. My name is Mary Ann Schwab, I live in the Sunnyside neighborhood, a park deficient neighborhood by the way. And I have been tracking the comp plan now since its inception with the Portland plan and now the comp plan. And I'm here today to support the EOA proposals that we clean up the brown fields. But I want to take it one step farther. Any time you bring in a new company or a new industry, have them set up an escrow.
 So that if the factory blows up, they're going to take care of the insurance liability for any injury to their employees. And if there's something wrong with the land, they are going to take and put that green field that they moved in, keep it green. We have far too many brown fields. It's very, very expensive. And we as property owners have to take care of that. So I think an escrow...
 and hold them accountable is what we need to look at. Also, with your policy and investments, that is key. We need to get someone that really, really cares about our environment here in the city, particularly our rivers. The brownfields do float down into the water. We need to protect our wildlife and our iconic salmon, our fishing, and pay attention to our Treaty of 1855. We need to do everything we can to keep that in the forefront. Thank you.
 Good evening. I'm Bob Salinger. I'm the Conservation Director for the Audubon Society of Portland. I'm here to testify in favor of the economic opportunities analysis. I think the city got it right. I did testify one time before, but I want to testify on the things that I've heard since then and respond to some of the things we've heard from industry. One, we've heard that
 there's a need for container terminals. A lot of people focus their concerns about the EOA on the container terminal. I think it's really important to note the EOA doesn't affect the container terminal. The container terminal at T6 is failing for a variety of reasons. It's important, but whether or not we change the EOA won't affect whether we have a container terminal. It
 Number two, we've heard a lot of testimony about what message does the EOA send? What does it send to industry? And I think it sends a number of messages, and I think they're the right messages. It sends a message that we're going to focus on cleaning up our brownfields, clean up the messes we made, and put them back into productive use for our community, for our environment, for our economy. Right.
 It says a message that we're going to make efficient use of the land we already have. Take care of what you have, use it well, get the maximum out of it. It sends a message that we don't have the infrastructure to develop places like Hayden Island. We're not going to have a bridge across the Columbia New Bridge, and we don't have the infrastructure to do it even if we wanted to, and we should not want to.
 Because we need to protect our environment as well. And this EOA gets the balance right. It says let's protect our important areas, our natural areas, and let's make good use of our industrial land that we already have. And finally, and this is a really important message, it says we take our community processes seriously.
 I am sad that I'm back here testifying in front of you again on this issue, and I'm sure you are as well. I have been testifying in front of you since 1989, long before many of you were on this
 And the reason I'm back here again is because you keep asking the community to come back and revisit it over and over and over and over again. And the community keeps saying, no, no, we don't want it. And when the port had an opportunity to do it, they said, we don't have the money to take care of the community, to take care of the environment and mitigate for the impacts they had. And they walked away from the table. It's time to put this to rest. Please adopt the ELA. Thank you. Good evening. Tim Helzer, Hayden Island. First of three points this evening. In the last months...
 hearing in Park Rose, the Working Waterfront Coalition said to you that there was no data on which the industrial land inventory was based that was provided by city staff.
 The Planning and Sustainability Commission received several reports from Tom Armstrong in 2014-15 on this subject, extensively documenting staff recommendations for far less inventory than previously lobbied for by the Port Working Waterfront Coalition, Portland Business Alliance, Columbia Corridor Association, and others. Bottom line?
 None of West Hayden Island is needed as industrial land to support the city's economic development for at least the next 20 years. Point two, in the 30 months combined study by the PSC of West Hayden Island as an industrial park and as a contributor to economic development in the comprehensive plan, PSC attached many basic but vital elements to the plan that
 Mitigations for any development on West Hayden Island to be included in this plan.
 As both an unfeasible and unsustainable development site, and as a high value regional urban natural wildlife habitat. Now is the time for the comprehensive plan to A, permanently exclude West Hayden Island from the industrial lands inventory. And B, memorialize the very sound research the PSC has done in recommending essential mitigation be required for any future development on West Hayden Island.
 From that combined study by PSC, it is now abundantly clear that A, any industrial development of the proposed 300 acres will affect all 837 acres. B, that the Multnomah County health studies confirm serious negative impacts will occur on human health.
 on the entire Hayden Island community and some of North Portland and see for these and many other reasons, we residents, we business owners, and we recreationists do not want any development on that site. Thank you. Good evening. Barbara Quinn from St. John's, St. John's Activist.
 I'm here just to reiterate both the testimonies that were just given. They made both the points I was going to make. The brown fields could be used more efficiently. We'd like to see West Hayden Island used as a natural area rather than developed commercially as industrial land. Thank you very much. My name is Darius Weller.
 I'm in the Linton neighborhood. I'm on the Portland Harbor Community Vice Group for the Superfund site. I'm on the board of the Northwest Toxic Community Coalition for EPA Region 10. And I support the findings of EOA to clean up brown fields, make better use of industrial lands, and not develop West Hayden Island. The communities have weighed in many times. We want contaminated sites cleaned up, we want promotion of clean, green industries.
 And to not destroy environmentally sensitive areas. Thank you. Hi, I'm Alistair Roxburgh, I'm a Hayden Island resident. I come to speak about industrial development in West Hayden Island. This has been revisited many times over the past 20 years. Each time the Port of Portland and many of Portland's major business interests have failed to bring forward a viable proposal for this site.
 Indeed, in January 2014, the Port of Portland famously walked away from four years of West Hayden Island development planning, which included a very reasonable mitigation requirement from the city. The Port of Portland said it was too expensive. Since then, the port also found Terminal 6 to be too expensive to continue in operation. But you know, the sky did not fall. Let's take a quick look at some of the attributes of West Hayden Island's 825 acres.
 It provides a vital web of light wetland area for the Columbia River. In fact, that's probably the most important one. Again, the port has told us it's too expensive to develop. It's in the highest seismic liquefaction bracket for our region.
 It's not suitable for new white-collar software and tech type industries, and there's a lot of other points. Yet the port refuses to clean up useful and already available and well-connected brownfields that it holds currently for future industrial development. Their preferred plan is apparently still to pave over West Hayden Island and turn it into something as mundane and useless as a new car parking lot.
 Portland cannot allow West Haden Island, its last major untouched urban natural wildlife habitat and wetlands area to be forever destroyed. West Haden Island is already working hard for our city to help protect the health of our river environment,
 We should not deter it from that mission by further interference and disruption of its present state. Therefore, we ask that the city's comprehensive plan permanently omit West Hayden Island from the industrial lands inventory,
 is not needed to achieve Portland's economic development goals over the next 30 years. Please adopt the EOA. Thank you very much, thank you. Okay, anyone else on item 27? Yeah, I have a few that I thought numbers were given out, I guess there was some confusion. So the ones left on this list is Shante Myers, Robert Bernstein, and Christine Fountain. Okay, come on up. Hear me, is this on? Yes, now it is. Okay, good.
 I would like to second what Tony Hobson said. For 30 odd years, I worked with kids in the Roosevelt cluster as a mentor to families and kids in handling juvenile court diversion. And I've seen what happens with displacement and school changes and how hard that is for at risk kids. Presently, I'm here to talk about West Hayden Island, which has to do with displacement of animals.
 West Hayden Island is unique. It's the last of the best, basically, that's unprotected in Portland. There is no way to mitigate it. Mitigation is a joke to me. It's like Charlie Hales, I tell you, I'm going to take your house away. Let's say it's eight rooms. Well, I'm going to start work on one room over here.
 And maybe that work will start in about a year and maybe it will be completed. And when that gets completed, I'll start on the next room over here, maybe in five years. Your family would thrive under that. Wildlife would thrive under that sort of recipe for mitigation. It's a crude joke. It's something that people come up with and make themselves feel better. In terms of the Port of Portland, why didn't the Port of Portland take a cautionary tale from PGE's attempt?
 You know, PGE tried to develop West Hayden Island. I've been part of this process, you know, the public process, quote. I'd like to see my time honored. I'd like to see the time of all the good people who testified about this honored. Otherwise, don't bother having public processes. I'll stay home, play banjo or something, you know, and I'll consider government a joke. Then there's the issue of...
 Here we are in SEI, which deals with young people. We teach people to clean up their messes before they do anything else, right? Well, the Port of Portland needs to learn to clean up their messes and stop transferring the costs for mitigation and the costs for their messes to the public. They want to have some skin in the game, put their own freaking skin in the game. Lastly, there's the air pollution of the North Portland schools, which is really high. And the Port of Portland's response to that was, well, there's other places worse.
 Thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Chris Fountain, and I live on West Marine Drive. My home, my floating home, looks out over the undeveloped part of Hayden Island. Thank you.
 I've been a taxpaying resident of Portland for over 10 years, and one of the reasons that I love living in Portland is that places like my home exist in the city. I live just minutes from the city center, and yet my neighborhood remains a refuge for fish, birds, plants, and mammals, and last but not least, me. Yes, my neighbors and I are financially invested in seeing this land removed from the city's industrial lands inventory.
 Our property values would take a beating if this land were to be developed, but we are also heavily invested in the preservation of this critical natural area. As has been clearly presented by city planners, the comp plan provides for an amount of developable acreage above and beyond the demand that is forecast for the next 20 years, while also accommodating tens of thousands of jobs. A portion of this inventory will come from the accelerated cleanup and redevelopment of polluted industrial brownfields.
 This underutilized contaminated land needs to be repurposed now. Reclamation of this land will not get any less expensive with time. The economic, environmental, and social benefits to be derived from brownfield redevelopment compare favorably with less expensive greenfield development. Benefits include significant job creation, tax revenue potential, greenhouse gas emission reduction, and savings in public infrastructure investment.
 Perhaps brownfield reclamation doesn't pencil out to industry's financial satisfaction, but for the sake of future generations, we are morally obligated to care for and protect our land and our natural resources. Please remove West Hayden Island from the city's industrial lands inventory permanently. Thank you. Thank you very much. You bet. Anytime. I'll try to do a better job next time. Okay, anyone else that's signed up on number 27? No.
 Okay, so then we'll move on to item 28. Would you read that please? Item 28, adopt a new comprehensive plan for the city of Portland, Oregon. Okay, so these are obviously, this is the broader document, so we have people signed up to testify on a variety of topics. So let's start with the first four, please. Okay, the first four. Rick Johnson, Eileen Wallace, Lori Kovac, and Travis Henry. Okay.
 They will be followed by Jim Lobenthal, Lucas Miller, Pat Sutton, and Michael DeMarco. Okay. Good evening. Go ahead. You're on. Oh, sorry. You had it on. There we go. There you go. Okay. Hello. My name is Rick Johnson, and I live at 14th and Oak, and I'm here to testify about 1403 Southeast Stark Street.
 The planning turned during a neighborhood walk around tag this as a non-uniform conforming R1 property and proposed a change to CN1 on half the block. The garage which was deemed in addition to the original building was left as R1. This change was to agree to after much back and forth with neighbors and Buckman Community Association members. Neighbors were concerned that the building would be leveled and replaced with high density apartments with no commercial use.
 When the property was sold earlier this year, neighbors were elated to find out that the new owner, Mr. Tim O'Leary, was going to restore it. I totally support his endeavor and believe he is a developer with high standards. The problem arises with the request to change the garage from R1 to CN1. Mr. O'Leary is reasonable in his request that allows him to use the space as commercial and not have to jump through non-conforming hurdles.
 is reasonable in the request that the addition of another lot of CN1 increases the risk of the whole block becoming CN1 and being replaced with studio apartments. My concern is not the building as it is restored, but rather the future building that would replace it in the event of some catastrophic loss. The neighborhood has already lost a large amount of R1 when Washington High School was turned from a residential building into a corporate headquarters slash music venue.
 know, ultimately what happens is zone creep with the residential neighbors becoming overwhelmed by commercial and apartments families move out because who wants to live in a neighborhood where you have to park blocks away and try to get your one and three year old all with all your groceries back to your residence. Buckman school is only two blocks away. And if this building were torn down, it would be nice to have some R1 type buildings in the neighborhood to encourage families to live
 there. The solution to this problem is really straightforward, and Portland being the city that works should embrace it. Allow Mr. O'Leary's property to be zoned CN1 with a covenant placed on it that stipulates if the building is removed, the property under question will revert back to R1, both sides win. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening.
 Thank you. My name is Eileen Wallace and I appreciate the opportunity to be in front of you today. I am providing testimony regarding a fourplex I purchased in 2004 and previously resided at for several years after graduating from college. It's located in Southwest Portland at 4001 through 4007, Southwest Collins Street.
 It is directly across from the Barber Boulevard Transit Center on an unimproved gravel road and near the City of Portland Water Maintenance Facility. I am requesting that City Council redesignate my fourplex from its current designation of R1 multi-dwelling to mixed-use urban center. It is contiguous to other properties with this mixed-use urban center or similar designation and within the boundary lines of the West Portland Town Center project.
 As a young adult, single mom of an active three year old, and native Oregonian, born and raised in Southwest Portland, I am invested in the future of this area. I hopefully will be around to be an active participant in changes related to and the implementation of Portland's comprehensive plan for years to come. My proposed request also supports any future changes related to the West Portland Town Center project and the Southwest Corridor High Speed Transit Plan.
 as well as development that will be needed to street storm water systems, parking, sidewalks, etc. that would accompany such projects. These projects may be years out, but I'd like the opportunity to resonate now to have the flexibility to be more in line with providing a mix of residential and commercial space where residents can live, work, and play. My current tenants all use bike or bus as their primary means of transportation to get to their jobs and or to nearby colleges.
 And this is due to the convenient location of my fourplex. However, improvements need to be done in the area. Lack of sidewalks and improved roads, high traffic, and limited street lighting do not always make this convenient, safe, or possible. I would like to see that change and be a part of that change. I appreciate your consideration of my proposal as a property owner for 12 years. I am going to be invested in the future and would like to have my designation changed to the mixed-use urban center. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Good evening. Hi, my name is Laurie Kovac. I live in southeast Portland in the area between Belmont and Stark in 26th and 30th. This area is proposed for a zoning change from single family R5 and R2.5 to multi-family R1 and R2. I am opposed to this change. I do not think it is fair to change the zoning of single family properties to allow 45 foot tall buildings to be built next door.
 Our neighborhood has more density than most with a pleasant mix of housing types. Many are historic buildings built before 1930 and used as single family homes, duplexes and triplexes. We also have a handful of apartments built in the 70s and 80s and a few older apartment and condo buildings. The primary thing that makes this mix of housing types work is the fact that the vast majority of the buildings are two stories.
 On the July 2004 proposed comprehensive map plan designations, most of the single family zoning in our neighborhood was left in place. The areas proposed for changes were capped at R2. No R1 zoning changes allowing 45 foot tall buildings were proposed. Most of the neighborhood members I talked with were okay with these changes on the 2014 map.
 and did not feel the need to testify. The zoning change to R1 came after the community meetings with the July 2004 map proposals.
 The primary advocates for the up zoning to R1 and R2 in the current plan are apartment owners and investors who do not live in the area. There are no vacant lots being considered for the proposed up zoning, which leads to the conclusion that the investors are looking to demolish the existing buildings and construct as big a building as possible in their place. Under the proposed R1 zoning, that would be 45 feet.
 I ask the city council to leave our zoning in place with no changes. If you decide not to do that, I would like you and the planning department to create a compromise that does not include any R1 zoning. This could be accomplished by stepping back to the zoning changes proposed on the comprehensive map proposal published in July 2014.
 I also ask you to delay any final decisions implementing zoning changes for our neighborhood until the planning department's current single family residential infill project and companion multi-dwelling zone projects are complete. This would allow our neighborhood to be evaluated with the information developed under those two studies, considering appropriate density, light, height, privacy, and parking standards before deciding on any zoning changes for our neighborhood. Thank you. Good evening.
 Good evening, commissioners. Thank you for being here this evening. My name is Travis Henry and I'm with Karen Pacific LLC. We're a commercial development firm in Portland. The exhibit I provided with my testimony letter shows a piece of property that we currently have under contract over by Montgomery Park.
 It's kind of an interesting area between Northwest 30th and 29th, and then it's also bounded on the north by Nikolai. So it's right on the south of the Giles Lake Industrial Sanctuary. And then interestingly to the south, you have a very established residential neighborhood, Willamette Heights.
 And basically this evening, I'll be brief, but I just would like you guys to consider not only the property that we have under contract, but this whole little squished area there, which currently is underutilized. The roads are not maintained well. And what we're seeing is an opportunity to come in and clean up and provide consistent zoning on both sides of the street. The property is currently zoned EG1.
 And with the comp plan update, it looks like residential, which is currently a conditional use, is going to be slated to be taken out. And we've talked with the neighborhood and immediate neighbors, and there's an interest in keeping residential, preserving a little bit of residential in this area, and we're proposing that we'd like to work with staff
 And if you guys are interested to continue the dialogue, to figure out a way that we can incorporate and preserve a little bit of residential in this area to create and continue to have a buffer between the Gow's Lake heavy industrial use and this nice residential area.
 From our perspective, it's just an area that's been overlooked and hasn't got a lot of attention. So we'd appreciate it if it's something you guys can support that we can continue the conversation later. So thank you very much for your work this evening. I'll go by and look and remind myself, but what's the existing structure on the site now? Currently, it's Royal Oak Metal Craft, and that's 2135 Northwest 29th. But it would be wonderful if that could be an area that you guys could look at. Thank you very much. Thank you this evening. Thanks.
 Okay, let's take the next group, please. Jim Lobenthal, Lucas Miller, Pat Sutton, and Michael DeMarco, to be followed by David Stone, Jamal Kareem, sorry, Nenga Harmon-Johnson, and Darina Muhammad. I think some of them have already tested back. Jim, go ahead, please.
 Good evening. My name is Jim Lobenthal, can you hear me? Yes. I'm a member of Riverside Golf and Country Club. And we've submitted a letter with an attached small report that creates a little bit of a different narrative than has been produced in the city's review of the strength of the inner city golf market. And basically that the city's review was that it was, and they've targeted us for going out of business within 20 years.
 That report has some interesting information. One of them is a chart that shows our membership has obviously dropped when we had the economic recession, but has rebounded to within about 3% of where we were before the recession. The golf industry has been reduced about 15 or 16%, but it has stabilized pretty consistently at 25 million members around the country.
 There's mention of golf course closures in the city document. The golf course industry was vastly overbuilt up through 2005. The number of courses increased by 40%. Since 2005, there's been a reduction of about 4%. So there's really a kind of a ringing out of some of this excess capacity, and we'll continue to see some of that. 90% of those have been public use courses versus member courses.
 Millennials, I make a mention of the millennial generation. There's been a lot of talk about that. And some of the information in the research shows that millennials have a lower participation rate than they did in the past. But as they get into their 30s and get more established, that participation rate starts going back up to where it was before. And that's the strongest growth segment in our current membership, new members.
 Lastly, we're suggesting that as we look at maybe other alternatives than designated Riverside for industrial, for instance, Broadmoor is embracing the concept in the comp plan. There's other land besides the 15 acres that's been designated in the comp plan at Broadmoor that is actually level and would be more suitable for additional industrial. So there might be some tradeoffs there. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good evening.
 Evening. My name is Lucas Miller. I'm the general manager at Riverside Golf Country Club. Here to support our efforts in this redesignation, I guess, at this point. But I just wanted to let you know that we represent the entire membership. And interestingly enough, we haven't had one member who's in favor of the new designation yet.
 I've only been with the organization for 60 days, but been very impressed with the membership in whole and the management of the facility. I was excited to join the management team just because of everything the club represents. It's a well established family oriented recreational open space intended to benefit the community and environment. And obviously it's doing that, or I hope it's doing that from your perspective.
 I'd just like to provide some internal insight into the workings of the operation, just to hopefully increase your perception that the place is going to be there for a long time. The club's operated by member committees. The members are very well educated. They're very involved. They're smart.
 mostly business professionals, and they basically help direct the management team. And the management team and staff are very skilled and professional from what I've seen, and obviously I'm there to help them, so hopefully I'm professional as well. But we won't go into that. I believe the club is positioned well economically, financially, and geographically,
 And so in conclusion, I don't see any reason why the property, you know, should be considered for any other use. And, you know, to help the club and the community, I just ask that you don't designate it industrial sanctuary. Thank you very much. Good evening.
 I'm also here representing Riverside. My name is Pat Sutton. I've been the golf professional at Riverside for 32 years. I worked there for 42 years. So I'm kind of the history guy and kind of a little bit more passion. But I started there in 73, so I've been through a lot of changes in the golf industry and it is not in decline. It was at one time, 2007 and 2008, but it has rebounded greatly.
 This year in 2016 celebrates our 90th year of being there and we expect to be there another 90 years. I've been working there almost half of its existence.
 It's Northeast Portland's most affordable and family oriented club. It's steeped in a lot of history and tradition, which I've been involved in. We've hosted many golf tournaments over the year. Also, the USGA and we also had the PING Classic, the LPGA came and we hosted that five years. It's a very vibrant club right now. It's got close to a full membership. We have 410 members.
 I have over 100 kids in my junior program teaching. We've had over 100 kids for like the last 10 years. So it shows the turnover in membership as far as the kids are growing up there. Our biggest, like Jim said, our biggest group is the intermediate membership, which is the age of 22 to 40.
 Another great positive thing about Riverside is our relationship with the Portland community. We host approximately 10 to 12 corporate tournaments each year. And some of those are Janus Youth, POIC, City of Hope, and OHSU Dornbecher. We hold all those tournaments. And that provides over the years at least hundreds of thousands of dollars to go back into the community for our charities.
 Another thing that we do for the community is we are the home course that we give away to colleges, Portland State, University of Portland, Concordia Lutheran, and we give the golf course away to high schools too, St. Mary's, Central Catholic, and Lincoln.
 The golf industry has suffered, 2007-2008, but like I said, it's rebounded strongly. I've seen golf go from an affluent niche sport in the 1970s to a truly global sport, now where people of all races and economic situations can play and truly enjoy the sport. Riverside is now in a very strong position both financially and in membership.
 It's been a strong presence in the Portland area, like I said, for the last nine years. The members of Riverside are looking forward to enjoying their golf course for another nine years, although I hope to be retired by then. So thank you very much for letting us speak. Thank you.
 I'm Michael DeMarco, I'm the director of the 42nd Avenue Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative. I have appreciated, we have appreciated as a community your support of our economic development work and I'm here to support the zone changes on Northeast 42nd Avenue which we have worked very hard with BPS on for the last several years. Simultaneously though, I'm here to sort of flag a concern.
 If, as many folks have said here, we want to support economic stability and mobility inclusively and equitably in this city. We also need to be thinking about economic diversity in our neighborhood districts. Our district has traditionally been 50% plus production and maintenance. And while we need more retail and restaurant, those businesses are the ones that are feeling the squeeze.
 Those businesses provide good wage jobs, they shop at the retail spaces and the restaurants in our district, and they are part of the fabric of our community. We are afraid of sort of a monoculture of our neighborhood commercial districts. And so I'm asking for your help and your continued support to look for solutions that have us in Portland with neighborhood commercial districts that are interconnected with the regional economy.
 that have fingers into the Columbia corridor, into downtown, and really provide the diversity of opportunity that our community needs to gain that stability and economic mobility. Thank you, thanks very much. Okay, thank you all. Next group please. Number nine, David Stone. Number ten, Jamal Green. Number 12, Darina Mohammed.
 Number 13, Mary Kyle McCurdy. Good evening. Good evening, Mayor and Commissioners. First of all, I wanted to say thank you for taking the time and I voted for all of you and you're all sitting at the same table, so I feel pretty good. This is my lucky night. Thank you. My name is David Stone and I'm representing the property that I own at 506 Northeast Thompson. This is actually an updated testimony. My wife was here on the.
 19th of November, she was, she testifies number three. We just came across new information we wanted to add. I'll make it as brief as possible so we're not being redundant.
 Essentially we've lived there for 16 years, raised both our children there. One of our daughters was born in the house. We had a home birth, so that was great. They go to school at Irvington and Grant, so we're very invested in the neighborhood. We oppose our 9,375 square foot lot being zoned from R2 to R2.5. This will prevent us from building a duplex on a large empty side of our lot, which is our current R2 zoning it allows now.
 The only reason we haven't done that is we have not chose to sell it to a developer, and we just have not been able to finance the construction yet. We feel the proposed zoning will devalue our property. Our block currently consists of a combination of duplexes, triplexes, and apartments, single family homes which fit nicely together. And also we feel it will change, it's inequitable because several properties in the area have been excluded. They've asked for that.
 Particularly the addresses of 623 Northeast Thompson, 633 Northeast Thompson, 545 and 605. All the addresses I'm talking about are between MLK and 7th off of Thompson. Nine out of the 19 residential locations already either have triplexes, duplexes or multiple homes. Some of them are actually over our .25, but they've been grandfathered to continue to keep their zoning.
 We're just asking for the opportunity to build a duplex. If it goes to R2, we'll only be able to build an ADU. We'll also have to pay to have the lot divided. So we feel we wouldn't be able to get as much financial gain out of the property that we own. So that's all we're asking for.
 I listed online all the properties of that were included in the Elliott we're asking for to either not be be zoned or to be to be excluded we understand that's called pocket zoning which is not allowed so really now I'm asking for the entire block from and Northeast MLK to Northeast 7th to be excluded from the R2 R25 zoning
 All right, thank you very much. One last thing, I'm sorry. One goal listed in the residential and open space planning is to rectify inconsistent land use patterns and non-conforming density. I believe keeping R2 zoning on our block would be more in line with that goal. We cannot see how R2 zoning would be harmful or change anything for the Thompson residential properties between Northeast MLK, Northeast Seventh, and Elliott. Thank you. Thanks. Thanks very much. Okay, good evening.
 Good evening, my name is Jamal Green. I'm representing the Emerging Leaders Board of the Oregon Environmental Council. The city of Portland purports itself to be a global leader in building green cities. And this comprehensive plan is one shining example of the city's commitment to preserving and protecting our environment. In order to meet this promise, I believe that all Portlanders must be willing to change and truly live the values we claim are central to our identity as Portlanders and Oregonians.
 The risks of climate change require a bold policy and planning response of which this comp plan is a strong first step.
 With this in mind, we must look to increase density within the inner areas of the city of Portland, but we must also look to increasing density throughout the rest of the city as a whole, moving into our larger single-family areas through allowing new uses such as accessory dwelling units, row houses, and fourplexes.
 SUCH NEW USES CAN STILL RESPECT EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER WHILE ALSO HELPING INCREASE DENSITY AND HOUSING AFFORDABILITY THROUGHOUT THE CITY AS A WHOLE.
 I know that many people oppose such changes seeing only the inconveniences of congestion and discomfort of living among strangers. I would counter these arguments by not only warning us about the risks of climate change, but by trying to remind folks that greater density can support the kinds of amenities and services that we all hold dear.
 The ability to walk to your neighborhood grocery store, to have access to better transit services to more efficiently move us about the city. And shops and restaurants that offer a plethora of third spaces where we can socialize and organize together as one city.
 Finally, we at the Oregon Environmental Council have dedicated ourselves to the pursuit of social equity and environmental justice. In this spirit, we must remind the city that increasing density without also proactively preventing displacement and better supporting tenants in this city would simply reproduce the injustices of the past. As such,
 As such, we continue to support policies that incentivize the construction of affordable housing units and much stronger renter protections as a whole. A city that depends on growing through displacing working persons of color and families and its most vulnerable residents cannot in any sense of the word call itself sustainable. It is time to recognize the fact that in order for Portland to be a sustainable city, it must first be a just one. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good evening.
 Hello, my name is Dorena Muhammad. I am a community member and I'm also an employee of Urban League of Portland. I'm a 37-year-old native Northeast Portland resident who lived the first 21 years of my life in stable, secure homes. I'm a single mother, single African-American mother of one child and graduate of Concordia University School of Social Work.
 My experience also includes assisting homeless families with obtaining and maintaining housing. I have worked the front lines holding several positions serving the homeless population, at-risk youth, those with addictions, along with the mentally and physically disabled for the past 13 years. I have worked in social services for years in gentrification, aka re-urbanization, aka displacement,
 has been a serious concern of mine, such a concern that I completed a study on gentrification and the impact that displacement has on native northeast Portland residents as a college senior thesis spring of 2006.
 In my experience growing up as a native northeast Portland resident, I can recall having great neighbors and streets to play in as a child prior to the major boom of trendy bars, boutiques, restaurants, and other businesses that cater to the middle class hipster and the cultural needs of...
 those other than those other than the people of color. I can recall changes to the now titled quote unquote Alberta Arts District, beginning as far back as 1997, the year I completed high school. Just as I challenged Congressman Earl Blumenauer during a discussion on urban renewal and bike in the bike initiative, I still have the same questions.
 that need fair and just solutions. I continue to see the same problem in the work that I have done and continue to do. My personal experiences and the experiences of my family. It has always been my dream to raise my child within the same neighborhood that I was raised in. Due to work contracts ending and other changes, I was forced to move from Northeast Portland over and over. Two years of raising my son in a house
 in the quote unquote Alberta Arts District. All of this after relocating to a rough, undeveloped, crime-ridden and apartment infested neighborhood of East Portland. The move back to the inner Northeast Portland was supposed to be an effort to provide quality living and education to my child. After vacating my beloved home experience, I was unable to find available affordable housing within inner Northeast Portland after finding work again.
 I had no choice but to move back to the same area within East Multnomah County that I ran so quickly from.
 The loss of our beloved PCRI home was due to underemployment and unavailable affordable housing within inner northeast Portland. The displacement caused, quote unquote, root shock with both me and my son. Displacement has contributed to the disruption of my child's stability and education. It has significantly significantly.
 I'm sorry, I'm stumbling because I'm passionate about this. Okay. In many years of living in Portland, my mother was forced to sell her five-plus bedroom home, which was built back in the early 19th century. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. We need to stop you there. We appreciate you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor Hales and members of the City Commission. My name is Mary Kyle McCurdy, Policy Director at 1000 Friends of Oregon. We're a member of the Anti-Displacement PDX Coalition. And as you're probably aware, Anti-Displacement PDX has brought to the city a package of measures that we recommend be adopted to mitigate and prevent additional displacement and address existing displacement.
 The Planning and Sustainability Commission has translated these into 13 new comprehensive plan policies and 15 other revised plan policies. We greatly appreciate the time that the Planning and Sustainability Commission has taken and the Planning Bureau staff has focused on a resulting package of strong, equitable, and encompassing set of proposals.
 You have heard and you'll hear more about the specifics of these policies from anti-displacement PDX speakers and our testimony, but my role here is to set a framework for them, which is to ensure that all Portlanders benefit from the public investments and policy decisions that result in increasing the value of particular areas and neighborhoods. In other words, everyone should benefit from these givings.
 For example, when the city invests in light rail associated infrastructure or walking and bicycling amenities or up zones areas along corridors, the desirability of those places to live and work increases because of those public actions and investments. But those same measures also increase land values and hence the ability and hence the price to rent and purchase homes and retail space.
 Therefore, we ask that the city adopt actions, including what anti-displacement PDX has proposed, to ensure that all Portlanders benefit from these public investments and actions.
 For example, the city is proposing to use a creative zoning tool, up designation to indicate which areas will be allowed to up zone to higher densities in the future over time as markets respond. That up designation will increase the future value of that land, therefore it's important to ensure that while current zoning is reflective of current market conditions,
 that in exchange for the eventual up zoning, all Portlanders will benefit by requiring a public benefit to accompany the up designation, including the measures that we have proposed and that you've also heard about earlier today, such as community benefit agreements. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay. Number 11, Jacqueline Hodge. Number 14, Anita Yap.
 15, Jessica Engelman. 16, Linda Nettenkopen. They will be followed by 17, Diana Richardson. 18, Terry Parker. 19, James Hever. And number 20, Steve Dotterer. Good evening, welcome. Good evening. My name is Jacqueline Hodge and I currently work for the Urban League Rosewood Initiative for Seniors. I am here to talk about my experience
 experiences recently. I'm the second oldest daughter of retired Senator Margaret Carter. I grew up in Portland. I had my six children in Portland. I went to Lincoln High School and Oregon State University. I left Portland. I lived here as an advocate, worked in the community as an advocate years ago. I left Portland 11 years, returned recently only to my dismay to find out how Portland has changed in...
 such a hard way for me. I grew up as an advocate. I grew up working in this community. I grew up as an entertainer here, lived here, worked with the people in North Northeast community. I worked in Las Vegas as a real estate agent and an entertainer.
 I learned about redlining and steering there firsthand. I come back to Portland several months ago, trying to start over in Portland, thinking this was still my home, only to find displacement and disparity.
 I saw firsthand when I tried to apply for a place to stay, I've applied for 30 places in Portland. Most of the barriers that I've run into are some of the same barriers that other African Americans are running into trying to find affordable housing. I ran into the barrier of where most of the people were asking for three times the income just to qualify for a $900 apartment.
 There were job issues that I had to deal with where I have to work two jobs just to be able to afford one place in north-northeast Portland, which is a travesty within itself.
 Part of the things that I've noticed here in Portland is that there is no place for us in our community, for when I say us, African Americans within our own community. We have been part of this whole gentrification act living here, and we have no outlet, nowhere to go. When I tried to live out in the numbers, I was met with disqualifications out there.
 I what I am here to ask for is that you please do not edit the anti-displacement displacement plan please keep that in place for people who are in my situation where we are almost 60 years old and trying to find just a place to stay within what was once our own neighborhood
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Anita Yap, and I live in southeast Portland. Good evening, Mayor Hales and members of the city commission. I'd also like to thank Tony Hobson and SEI for hosting us here. It's a wonderful place to be. I'm a board member of APANO, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, and also a member of the executive committee of the Jade International Steering Committee.
 But I'm here today just to talk for myself. I have a long history in East Portland. My father was a teacher at Portland Community College in Southeast Long, 82nd Avenue. He actually worked with your mother. Small world. My mother also was a nurse at the Kaiser Clinic there on Division. And both of those two places have been, we've seen actually a lot of,
 displacement right now in this area. It's a big loss losing a clinic, medical clinic in Le Jin, which is another place that was a gathering place for the Asian Pacific folks in the area. So already we're seeing some pretty big ones. Metro has purchased the furniture store and we're likely to see that redevelopment as well.
 As you know, this is one of the most diverse areas in all of Oregon, and it's not the new Chinatown. We have a range of Asian Pacific Islanders, Latino, African immigrant, African Americans. We have Russian-speaking as well. So I really urge you to look at this area in a special way. Portland does not have a good history of doing development, especially among communities of color, and this one in particular is nothing like we've ever seen before.
 i have three points that i'd like to raise one of them is first is to thank the city of portland staff the planning bureau you know we've been tracking this for the last four years at least so this is a big step to get here but the first issue is as mentioned today was the community benefits agreements
 As we know, a lot of the zoning and comp plan designations that you're giving are definitely a windfall. This is a public benefit that these property owners are getting, especially in up zone. So there needs to be some equality related to that, some equity and what that means to the rest of the community. This is our public dollars going to their benefit.
 Examples of that are wide and well-known. San Francisco Public Utilities has one where they actually do it with their contracting. So it captures utility investments, transportation investments that don't necessarily trigger a land use decision. But there's also community benefits related to value capture, as we said, on property value increase based on land designation increase as well.
 Metro also looked at that. It's when their urban, last time they did their urban growth boundary expansion. The other one is a specific one. Portland Nursery, we found out, has just asked to do a pretty radical up zone in residential zoning. We only found out about it. The neighbor, the property owner didn't talk to us. We don't expect them to, but we have reached out to them and are meeting with them. We think this is totally incompatible with the area, and we really think that there should be a,
 I urge you not to approve that as well. The last one is the Powell Division urban renewal area that the mayor mentioned yesterday or earlier in the newspaper. Again, this is a surprise to us. We hadn't heard about this before. Urban renewal has not had a good history, especially for communities of color. And we really have a lot of grave concerns, and we don't want to see this reoccur.
 Really rammed through at the last minute and we really urge you this again This is our public money and we want to make sure that it's thoughtfully done We have a history of not doing things well, especially PDC So I'd really like to urge the City Commission to really take that to heart. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening
 Good evening. My name is Jessica Engelman, and I'm here representing the Hossford Abernathy Neighborhood Association to talk about the TSP. Please refer to the emails that Han sent earlier today for a full version of the following comments, including appendices.
 So we on the handboard would like to commend BPS on the values and goals outlined in the TSP and in Chapter 9 of the comp plan. Specifically, we want to extol the plan's emphasis on safety, livability, transit mode prioritization, and protections for vulnerable users, rather than speed and throughput.
 We do have concerns about the TSP. It seems the word green has overtaken TSP jargon. The word Greenway alone has three totally separate meanings, and we are concerned that this dilutes the meaning of neighborhood Greenway and creates confusion for road users versus the previous nomenclature, Bicycle Boulevard. Thank you.
 We are also concerned that the on-the-ground factors are not being taken into consideration when determining what properties are within a quarter mile of MAX stations. This affects density and parking requirements.
 The diagram's BPS has shown us thus far of the area around Hand's new Clinton Street MAX station, designate this area as the crow flies, when in reality an incomplete street grid and delays at freight train crossings create significant detours for any human walking rather than flying to the MAX station. Thank you.
 As with the Comprehensive Plan's public outreach process, we have found a public process for the TSP to be a bit confusing. It has been difficult to follow how the TSP interacts with related city plans, for example, the 2030 bike plan.
 Not all transportation projects currently planned or in the works are listed on the TSP, leaving us to wonder if these missing projects were omitted because their presence is on other city planning lists, if the projects were deemed outside the budget, or if they're simply being overlooked.
 Therefore, we have submitted to you a list of crucial transportation projects in hand, most for the benefit of vulnerable road users. And we hope that they don't fall between the cracks. Again, please refer to the email sent out earlier today for that list, and thank you very much. Great, thank you. Good evening. Good evening, Mayor Hales and council members. My name is Linda Netticoven. I'm a hand board member and I'm also speaking on behalf of the neighborhood association this evening.
 My small piece is to urge you to adopt and implement a comp plan that can serve as a pathway rather than a weapon in the hands of opposing factions as we go forward.
 We're hoping you can find a way using the wisdom of Solomon to avoid the appearance of an either or situation where to address critical concerns such as climate change, displacement and housing affordability. We must overlook other important policies that deal with quality design, preservation and community livability. Our neighborhood association has long worked on.
 Advocacy regarding climate change, housing affordability and displacement will continue to do that, but we're also fighting for better design. To do this, our first response has been to support the work of the Division Design Initiative, and we've included their top ten policy recommendations for your consideration.
 I'd like to elaborate on a couple of those points. First, just the encouragement and support of good design. You've got good policies in the plan, but we don't see design as a frill. Obviously, it creates beauty when it's done well, but thoughtful design also recognizes and creates opportunities for greater sustainability, better functionality, and the best use of limited resources.
 whether it be for tiny houses, temporary shelter for our houseless neighbors, seamless compatible infill in our residential neighborhoods, or adaptive reuse and new growth along our commercial corridors. Design makes the difference in all those places. Another important part of the neighborhood fabric are the cultural, historic, and visual resources. We haven't updated our inventories for a long time. We have one site today.
 east of southeast 12th that's designated as a view shed. We have one property east of southeast 82nd that's designated as historic. This becomes an equity issue when so large a portion of our city has no option for protection of these critical resources. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Number 17, Diana Richardson. 18, Terry Parker. 19, James Hever. 20, Steve Dotterer.
 They will be followed by 21, Edward Jones, 22, Derese Weller, 23, Jim Harries, and 24, Kathy Birch. Good evening. You're on. Okay, thank you. My name is Diana Richardson, and I own properties at 6th and Tacoma. So that's the bridgehead of the Selwood Bridge on the east end.
 My business name is D.J. Richardson Properties, L.P., and I am requesting that to the two full blocks north and south of South Tacoma Street and located between 6th Avenue and Grand Avenue,
 as well as a half block located down the street at 7th and to 9-0, extending to 7th and Umatilla, be changed to mixed-use civic corridor designation. Additionally, I'm requesting that this half block be changed to commercial mixed-use three-zone
 Lastly, I am requesting that the D overlay be applied to the three locations. I'm a third-generation property owner, and my daughters live in the area, and so they will follow in my footsteps.
 I've been in communication with the Selwood Westmoreland Business Association and with SMILE. And I'm aware of the affordable housing issues, commercial space issues, common area plaza, and curb appeal, and parking issues.
 I would like the Bureau, I would like to thank the Bureau personnel for their work, the community outreach and input to date.
 Thank you. I appreciate your efforts. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening. Terry Parker, fourth generation Portlander. I am here this evening for the purpose of supporting the official Rose City Park Neighborhood Association testimony, also supported by CNN and presented at the December 10th
 2015 hearing to make room for cars in the sandy boulevard corridor by providing adequate off-street parking with new development and Oppose the addition of bike lanes on the sandy boulevard itself Adding bike lengths to sandy would either require the removal of on street parking that will hurt small businesses Or the removal of one or more travel lanes which would add more congestion to an already congested Street neither are favorable outcomes alternative bike routes
 NEED TO SUPPLANT ANY CONCEPT FOR BIKE LANES ON SANDY. ONE OF THE BIGGEST HOT BUTTONS RELATED TO NEW DEVELOPMENT CREATING A PUBLIC UPROAR IS THE CONSTRUCTION OF NEW APARTMENT HOUSES WITHOUT PARKING THAT IN TURN HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON NEIGHBORHOOD LAVABILITY. DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT POLICIES 4.32 AND 4.33 SPECIFICALLY ADDRESS THE MITIGATION OF OFF-SITE IMPACTS
 on adjacent residential areas additionally urban form corridor policies three point four five three three point four seven address accommodating growth and mobility needs for people of all ages and abilities accommodating mold will be more uses and balancing modes of transportation these design and development
 Design, development, and urban form policies must supersede the fantasy world mindset of parking management policies 9.54 through 9.57 that seek to encourage lower car ownership and limit adequate parking for car storage in new multi-unit residential development and supersede the discriminatory strategy for people movement in policy 9.6.
 You were elected to represent all of the people of Portland, not just the special interest. Nearly 80% of the trips in Portland are made by car. Over the next 20 years, car trips are expected to increase by 49% regardless of how much mass transit...
 is added. Per the city's own studies, 72% of the households in new multi-unit developments have one or more cars. The people who drive currently are the primary financial stakeholders for all TSP projects. You need to start representing these core taxpayers and reject all the anti-car car-hater transportation policies in Chapter 9. Thank you. Thanks, Terry. Good evening. Good evening.
 My name is Jim Hoyer and I speak today as chair of the Portland Coalition for Historic Resources. Our volunteer organization represents the largest historic districts in the city, plus preservation and neighborhood activists. We have several folks who are going to be speaking today on specific issues, but my job is to look at the bigger picture. Portland is actually an old city. We like to think of ourselves as a hip and happening place, but much of our appeal to tourists and new arrivals is our historic built environment. The numbers tell the tale.
 Excluding the areas annexed to Portland in the 1990s, the proportion of our housing stock that's over 75 years old is comparable not to cities like Los Angeles and Houston, but to Chicago, Philadelphia, and Baltimore.
 To protect our heritage of historic homes and buildings, the city of Portland has signed a certified local government agreement with the state of Oregon, which under state law obligates Portland to establish zoning and land use regulations that protect and preserve our designated historic buildings during key planning processes. Alas, a review of the current comprehensive plan documents provides very little indication of this.
 Indeed, the plan's refusal to align zoning designations with historic resource review guidelines covering thousands of contributing properties, about 7,000 actually, in our historic districts is an affront to that legal commitment, a commitment that is every bit as binding on the city of Portland as a requirement to create the comprehensive plan in the first place. This lack of attention to these issues is not due to the failure of our community to speak up.
 neighborhood associations citizens groups have repeatedly raised issues and provided specific requests relating to the subject a
 We are asking the council to take our concerns seriously and act accordingly, mandating that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability undertake a detailed review of our historic district, the zoning. There are 21 historic districts involved as part of the fine-tuning phase of the comp plan, as well as recognizing some National Register eligible areas like Buckman for more sensitive treatment. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening. Evening. I'm Steve Dotterer and I'm here representing the Architectural Heritage Center, the Bosco Milligan Foundation. The AHC will be speaking to a number of points tonight and I'm focusing on two of them that we're requesting comp plan designation amendments.
 The first is that the plan currently includes an up zoning from R5 to R2.5 in the part of Buckman around 18th and Washington. And we oppose that change. It's an area that currently has a mix of uses and we recognize that the current R5 zoning results in a number of non-conforming uses and a number of the previous speakers have spoken to these issues where there's
 a range of densities within a current block, which is really the result of the early zoning in Portland in the 1920s. We requested the council include a refinement work plan in the implementation phase of the comp plan that looks at these areas. We believe that there's got to be a solution that is legally defensible that will
 reflects the variety of the densities and will still preserve more of the historic houses in the neighborhood. So we would ask that you include that refinement plan. Second thing is that we support the request of the Eastmoreland Neighborhood Association for R7 zoning within the core of their neighborhood. It reflects the current lot pattern and the development that occurred in the 20s and 30s and reflects the kind of public
 infrastructure public street structure and and parks that are there and it would be a good idea we believe to maintain that we also understand that the neighborhood is interested in creating a historic district and we support that effort thank you where was that our seven zoning in the it's in the core of the Eastmoreland neighborhood thank you thank you thank you all
 Number 21, Edward Jones. Number 22, Derese Weller. 23, Jim Harries. 24, Kathy Birch, to be followed by 25, Amy Brewer. 26, Jeff Cole. 27, Carol McCarthy. And 28, Roger Jones.
 We'll give the judge the first word instead of the last word. Well, I'm Edward Jones. I'm the land use chair and the vice chair of the Linton Neighborhood Association. I have five quick things to say, which works out to about 20 seconds apiece. I have a document, which I'll provide all of you, and I've also emailed it in. Number one, the...
 Prime industrial overlay. We support the notion of an industrial sanctuary, but the overlay is kind of like a land youth death star. It's not going to work. As it turns out, it's just going to be the most recent of a long line of futile efforts to defeat the objective forces of history. Thank you.
 The city needs to have a plan to migrate industry out of the places which are frankly of much greater value to the community now. The idea that we can freeze all this industrial zoning, it hasn't worked in the past, it never worked, mostly because the council.
 defeated it repeatedly in various individual decisions, and that isn't going to change in the future. That needs to be rethought. I will say, incidentally, that in three specific properties in Linton, after discussions with the Bureau have been lifted from the overlay, there's a map, I've provided a copy of it, which sets out those specifically, but I think the current plan reflects those new exemptions.
 Okay, so that's number one. Number two is the quake safety issue, the energy policy in the plan. Energy policy in the plan talks about reliable, equitable, efficient, and affordable energy. It doesn't talk about safe energy. And this is a big issue in Linton because we sit on a fractured earthquake zone with
 pipelines and tank farms and all of that. Safety, how to be in the plan. It would be nice. Hillside density, we actually feel pretty good about the density situation. Although Linton's future is problematic, we have a lot of buildable lots and no infrastructure to support the housing that in theory could be built on those lots.
 And since they're all view lots, we expect new pressure and new problems around the density issues in Linton. The city's made some efforts, but they are insufficient so far. Here's your last two in rapid order. All right, okay. Neighborhood associations participation in the comprehensive plan. We support the document that was presented by the comments on community engagement.
 The plan simply does not allow the neighborhood associations to participate in the process. It's unredeemable the way it is. The planning process has to incorporate the neighborhood associations in a meaningful way. We meet every two months. You don't get a 10-day, hey, you got 10 days to comment. That doesn't work.
 Finally, there's the health overlay zone idea. That was proposed by some of the North Portland people. We're strongly in favor of that. We think a health zone overlay would move us in the right direction. And I think I've touched all five. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening. Hi, thank you for listening to me a second time. My first one's positive in support, this one I'm afraid is not.
 The 1973 Goal 7 of Oregon Land Use Law requires prohibiting the siting of hazardous facilities in identified hazard zones where risk to the public safety cannot be mitigated. In 2005, Portland City Council nixed our neighborhood plan, saying that 400-foot buffers that we had proposed from the tank farms were still not far too dangerous a proximity to the tanks, even though code only required 150-foot buffers.
 buffer areas. In 2006, two of the largest tanks were built in Linton, less than 400 feet from 45 condo units, maybe even as close as 150 feet. The tank farms are located on liquefiable soils. Not only is the impending subjection zone earthquake overdue, there is a major fault line running underneath the tanks.
 Neighborhood safety is not addressed in this plan, nor mitigation, nor prohibition of facilities such as the Linton Tank Farm. As state land use law requires cities to implement in their planning, safety for neighborhoods that butt up against industry should be a part of this plan. At our last night's Neighborhood Association meeting, the head of the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management said she would like to find the money to move all of us in Linton. Okay.
 Our reply, we were there first. Thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening. My name is James Harries. I live at 10500 Southwest 25th, and I have a specific request for a couple of specific properties. I think you have some maps there. Okay. We're way in far southwest, and this property was laid out when Portland was a small city down by the river.
 And later the city came in and changed our zoning from the rural R-20 to an R-10 overlay. I went with that zoning and got approval to subdivide way back in 1992, but I didn't at that time. And then 14 years later, in 2006, my neighbors decided they wanted a subdivide, and I helped them lay it out. And I'm a planner by profession, so I was happy to do that.
 but when we got the city they said well we took away your overlay zone you're now r20 and you can't divide i i submit this is an error commissioner novak said that you know we have to increase our density and here we went the other way to make it undividable undivisible my lot is 39 000 square feet then r20 i can't make it well of r10 that's not a problem or an issue and the city approved it once there's no really
 geological features or you know rare and unusual plants or anything that would keep them from doing this I just think it's an oversight and we request that the city or consider and make it back to our 10 Okay. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening Hi, my name is Kathy Burch and I've never done this before so I may be a little rough and
 I live in the Richmond neighborhood. I have for 30 years. My kids went to Cleveland High School. The neighborhood's changed a lot in 30 years. You know, there aren't needles on the...
 parking lots anymore. And I accept that it's changing, but I have a problem with some of the current development goals that are based solely on number of units to be crammed in and are not consistent with other city stated goals that have to do with moderating the effects of climate change. If density is at the expense of greenery, we are not going to meet the goal of a larger urban tree canopy.
 In the past year, at Clinton and 27th, several sycamores with a diameter of at least a foot were cut down. At 34th and Hawthorne last month, not only was the occupied monkey tree cut down, but also two evergreens on the same property at the perimeter of the property were sacrificed. Within the last three weeks, three enormous 50-year-old Pacific cedars at approximately Hawthorne and 45th
 were first trimmed into 50-foot-tall middle fingers that addressed the neighborhood, and then several days later they were felled. Mike Hoke, I think you say his name, of Urban Green Spaces, was recently quoted in Street Roots saying, "'It's not acceptable to trash everything inside the urban growth boundary to hold the boundary.'"
 I think that in a city rife with designers, architects, and creative types, that buildings can be designed to include our existing mature trees. These trees clean the air, soak up the water that our pavement cannot, cool our walkways and homes,
 visually bless our lives, give us a sense of privacy, and support the climate adaptations and resilience that is set as a goal in Comp Plan 7.4a. So I would like to request quickly that it's added into the policy language that in Section 7.11 to prevent removal of trees greater than 6 inches in diameter.
 Thank you very much. Thanks. You did a really good job for your first time of testifying. I wouldn't have known if you hadn't said so. We made a start with the tree code, which we started implementing this year. It's by no means perfect. We're going to have a report to council about it in February and then start implementing some changes of things that we've discovered. So thank you very much for your support. People have got their other kinds of saws out in a hurry waiting for you to decide. Okay, thank you.
 All right. Let's see the next four, please. Number 25, Amy Brewer. 26, Jeff Cole. 27, Carol McCarthy. 28, Roger Jones. Be followed by 29, Michael Michoff. 30, Susan Lindsey. Okay. Go ahead.
 my name is amy brewer and i'm two my name is bill henry oh sorry and i have a another susan lindsay i think there's i think i think we have one susan lindsay i saw her here but go ahead please okay my name is amy brewer and i live in the sunnyside neighborhood and i'm here to talk to you about policy 4.29 having to do with light first of all mr novick i want to address
 beginning remarks, I believe that we do have to have density, but I don't believe that we have to have it in a way that harms the existing neighborhoods. There are many shades of design from not neighborhood beneficial to wonderful masterpieces that will be neighborhood treasures. And I think we need to recognize that when we talk about density. It's not an either or. There are many shades of it.
 I'm specifically going to talk about a development that is scheduled to go in at 4335 Southeast Belmont Street. It's supposed to be done by Greenlight Development and Mark Desperado, who is not in communication with the neighbors right now, although we have requested it.
 I have a blog online. It'll be very easy to find if you just Google. What's happening is that Greenlight Development is planning on building to maximum code density. There's going to be 65 apartments, and five of us neighbors are going to lose all of our daylight access, south-facing daylight access, because of a 45-foot apartment wall that is going to go 10 feet away from our property line.
 Mr. Desperado is showing no consideration for neighbors and no chance of changing that at this point, although it has not been permitted yet. And the truth of the matter is, as I have talked to planning services and other agencies trying to find a remedy for us neighbors, that there is nothing for us. Right now, developers' only motive is profit, and their only regulation is profit. When they extract...
 our equity by darkening and devaluing our property, and then flip that big development to foreign investors. I want to know who in Portland wins. I think it's very important that you very much consider the Division Design Initiative, because that initiative will take care of these problems and protect people like me.
 I have a blog, I am the founder of the Sunnyside Clearlight Neighborhood Coalition. And I will be documenting this project from start to finish. And I will be showing what it looks like when development like this is allowed to happen in a neighborhood. Thank you, thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening, my name is Jeff Cole and I live in Sunnyside.
 Portland's planning efforts boast a parade of home runs. We infilled a sea of downtown parking lots. We built the Pearl and transformed old weather houses and railroad yards into magical blocks. The gleaming towers of South Waterfront come with new riverside access. At the plate, the Zydal Yards embraces our stunning Tillicum Bridge, an impressive string, yet lately our city planning is starting to strike out.
 Big box apartments in century-old neighborhoods are tearing our city's fabric apart.
 This need not be. The growth scenarios report informs us Comp Plan 35 has an excess zone capacity of 144,000 household units or 300,000 people within the borders of the city of Portland. Yet Comp Plan 35 proposes to inject over 77% of new development into already complete 20-minute districts.
 That's nearly 100,000 units of big box apartments in neighborhoods like Sunnyside, Richmond, Woodstock, Multnomah Village, and so on. Yet untouched sits Gateway,
 Already an urban renewal area. Already transit rich with the convergence of three max lines and direct access to two freeways. Gateway alone has a zone capacity of 33,000 household units, over 75,000 people. An expanded gateway could house many more. We could funnel growth to where it does more good than harm. Let's put Gateway on deck and the team behind Gateway.
 Yesterday, the Pearl was railroad tracks. Tomorrow, let's make Gateway the civic and urban center for underserved East Portland. Let's build housing options serving a wide range of incomes and actually meet our targets.
 Gateway can be our next home run. Combined with future growth along the interstate corridor, downtown, the Pearl, Broadway, Postal, Egg Ridge, South Waterfront, Zydell Yards, and Lloyd Center, we can house our future citizens while protecting our already complete century old neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good evening. Hi, my name is Carol McCarthy. I live at 4311 Southwest Freeman Street in Portland.
 I'm testifying here today as a member of the Multnomah Neighborhood Association. I'm following up on my previous testimony regarding the importance of neighborhood associations in Portland. I am urging you to add a new chapter to the comp plan called Neighborhood Associations that acknowledges the critical role that participatory democracy plays in good governance in Portland. The opportunity for participatory democracy is what neighborhood associations provide.
 Ours is a geographically based system that provides a voice to everyone living in Portland, as well as to people who own property and businesses here. Key among neighborhood association strengths are that we follow the state's public meetings law. We have bylaws, our officers are elected and we can be impeached. We publish agendas and meeting minutes. We do not charge dues and our officers take an oath that they are free of conflicts of interest.
 The City of Portland established this system in city code and supports it financially and organizationally. It is a masterpiece created with foresight and maintained through hard work, including extensive volunteer work. What we have in Portland is nationally recognized as one of the premier neighborhood systems in the U.S. We should enshrine it in the comp plan.
 In The Rebirth of Urban Democracy, published by the Brookings Institution Press, the author selected Portland's system as one of the five from among 900 to examine as a model for bringing government closer to people. It is a fascinating read.
 The following quote is relevant in this plan context. Whenever the City of Portland does any planning, it is participatory planning. The neighborhood associations are always involved, and in neighborhood-level zoning decisions, they are dominant. All development proposals are made within a set of constraints established by plans in which neighborhood associations have participated. Neighborhood associations are difficult to establish, but Portland has done it. They are also difficult to maintain, but they are worth it.
 They promote public involvement and they inspire confidence in the political process.
 The goals for the new chapter would reflect these aspirations and the city's commitment to promoting even more meaningful participation through the neighborhood associations. Among other things, the chapter's new policies would address the neighborhood association's roles in neighborhood plans and land use issues, public notification, mediation, public safety, parks, schools, and budget advisory committees. These are activities that the neighborhood associations are actively working on.
 Portland has benefited from decades of involvement from its neighborhood associations. Please acknowledge their importance and promote them through the next 20 years by including a chapter about their goals and policies in the 2035 comp plan. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. Thank you. Good words, everybody. Roger Jones, 2936 Southeast Taylor, inner southeast Portland. I've been there for decades.
 decades and many decades before that having the first mixed-use property my dad bought back in the 70s but I I'm here to talk about the thing that's the core of my existence which is those corridors on Hawthorne on Belmont on division the inner city corridors that are hundred years 120 years old
 their fabric has been disregarded in a bit of recent developments that have gone on we've all seen it I won't enumerate it there's just too many examples of it but I have a request that somebody takes some leadership at this point I don't know how to do it but I think it's the right thing to do and that's to call for a moratorium on big box big box apartments a moratorium for 24 months would
 would give us time to do the work that we're trying to do tonight, the comprehensive plan work that's going to make a comprehensive plan available 24 months from now. And I know that you can't just indiscriminately make a decision that you're going to cause a moratorium like that. You have to have a plan. Well, the plan is the 2035 comprehensive plan.
 so i asked for leadership i uh i'll be contacting uh you and others about this uh specifically about our sustainable communities in inner southeast portland we need to have some breathing room it's serious please help me thank you thanks very much thank you all okay number 29 michael mitchop number 31
 Susan Lindsay. Number 32, Bill Henry. And number 33, Mike Dubinsky. To be followed by 34, Ron Ebersole. 36, Nancy Luna Jimenez. 37, Antonio Lara.
 Good evening, welcome. Good evening, Mr. Mayor, thank you. Commissioners, thank you very much for your time. My name is Mike Mitchoff. Along with my brother, I am a lifetime resident of Westmoreland, Eastmoreland-Selwood area. I am part of four generations of my family who have lived on the land we live on now, as well as in the houses that we live in.
 I'm here basically in support of proposed change 1071. It's the southern end of Westmoreland Park. It's a proposed change. It's basically at the, yeah, I provided a handout here too. Yeah, that one.
 It's basically at the Tacoma Street MAX station. So I am in support of the change 1071 GC to MU neighborhood. It definitely is the right thing to do there. And while we're on that topic, considering all of the infrastructure in that area, I would request that you guys consider a change in the shaded area there.
 From an R5 zone to an R2, a change to R2 is appropriate for this area. The area is currently adjacent to R2 zones on three sides. And one of the lots that actually isn't R2 is an existing R2 use. The existing infrastructure can definitely support R2's higher density as it is right now.
 The R2 designation takes advantage of proximity to the Tacoma Street MAX station, many like three other bus transit routes, the Springwater Corridor, the Spokane Street Bikeway, and major arterials within like 500 to 1,000 feet. I actually can't believe it wasn't included in some sort of up zone up until this point. It's a perfect area for it.
 The Westmoreland Park in the adjacent MU neighborhood zone and other amenities will definitely cater to and sustain higher development or higher density development And much of this land is basically underutilized right now. There's very few trees. There's not many houses on it So we're not going to have to tear down trees. We're not going to have to tear down houses the houses that are on it are very small and I propose to move them but I
 Basically, development to the R2 standard would achieve many city housing goals while maintaining livability for existing residents, including myself and my children. Same with my brother. I think many of you have been to some of my pocket neighborhood developments recently on 77th and Division, or at least your staff has.
 It's been really well received. It's a very small scale. It can be done. That is an R2 zone. I think it makes sense. It's a really good way to do density. And my goal on that is home ownership, not necessarily building rentals. I want to build houses that my children can afford and live in. So I thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Good evening.
 council members thank you for opportunity to speak this evening you could go i'm going to keep my comments sorry i think she was she was she was next in line and she's ready to rumble so i am ready i have to hold the microphone here all right i'm susan lindsay i'm co-chair of the buckman community association the bca opposes the upzoning of the area between 15th and 19th on morrison and belmont
 This area is in the heart of the remaining residential area in Buckman and knits together our park with our elementary school. The existing zoning in place will preserve the housing, many of which is already multi-family, and with options for future growth for families.
 and besides there are plenty of other areas huge areas in buckman already where uh... many of these uh... four five story boxes of studio apartments can be built so we're asking to have that amended from fifteen to nineteen th on belmont morrison also i'm asking you to amend uh... i personally this uh... this didn't have time to get through the bc a ask you to amend
 and remove the upzoning of a targeted area that Steve mentioned from the Bosco Milligan 17th to 20th Stark to Morrison, which despite already having rich density and a historic inventory, has been designated R2.5 on the plan. And my concern there is that it's going to end up looking like this. This is the before. Before.
 I have a really beautiful house, and this is the after of a really, really spectacular house. So I ask you to amend that. And finally, with all due respect to Commissioner Novick, to say that those neighbors who are facing large-scale demolitions, loss of affordability,
 displacement of the poor, single mothers, families, children, loss of livability, and the trees, and that this is how we must live to combat climate change. I say that this is far too simplistic and seems to now be the new argument being used to silence those who rightly have concerns about what is happening. Originally, we were told we needed to accept mass density to create affordability, but what has happened is exactly the opposite.
 There are many ways to skin a cat regarding climate change, and many of us in the inner east side have been on the cutting edge of those methods for years. Vegetarianism, organics, alternative transportation, having roommates, and especially the support and care of a large and important urban tree canopy. Please review and make these two amendments that I have requested to help us continue to be an inclusive neighborhood where children and families can continue to flourish. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening.
 I apologize for my early start that's okay my name is Bill Henry I'm here today to address a specific property 6134 Northeast Davis a property my family has owned since 1993. and our written comments that are before you um the other one
 We are requesting a change from the current R5 designation to a higher density multifamily designation. We believe this change is appropriate because the property directly adjacent is an R1 designation, and we think the transition between that zone and R5 is too abrupt.
 It occurs in the middle of the block between two interior non-corner lots. And we think as imperfect as these type of zoning transitions are, mid-block transitions, we think they should be gradual where possible. And we think it is possible on this particular circumstance for two reasons. Changing the zone or changing designation would first, it would move it to be adjacent to a corner lot. The lot next to us on the other side is a corner.
 and second that corner lot is of larger dimensions than every other lot on the block that creates a natural buffer zone between the two land use types that is definitely not present now and I've included a figure on page two that show the difference in dimensions that we see and that concludes my comments thank you okay thank you very much very well put together thank you okay good evening good evening my name is Mike dubinsky I live on Northeast Haslow Street in Portland
 As a recently arrived resident of the city, I have not been present to watch the plan evolve over time, but the transportation section, chapter 9 of the current version concerned me and I'm certain others in my neighborhood. Our home is relatively close to Sandy Boulevard, a corridor that is expected to accommodate some of the additional residential and business build out in the city.
 the language in the policy statements in the chapter gives me the perception that the city's expectation is that all new occupants of multi-unit buildings would not own autos and employees and patrons of businesses would not use autos to access them therefore no accommodation for automobile parking would be necessary everyone would walk bike and use public transit i believe that type of thinking is naive
 Even if people walk, bicycle, and use transit, as I do, they will in many cases still have and use a vehicle from time to time, as I do. Absent some accommodation for parking, they will utilize the close-by neighborhoods as their parking lot.
 I have studied policy statements published by the Federal Department of Transportation and the Federal Highway Administration concerning the implementation of bicycle and pedestrian accommodations for livable communities. The federal policy and implementation guidance in no way suggests or recommends that communities undertake initiatives which result in adverse impacts on existing neighborhoods.
 i have learned that at least to a degree my concerns are shared by others in nearby neighborhoods and they have already conducted an in-depth assessment and prepared a submission which was sent in on november 17 2015. i have studied the submission of the rose city park neighborhood association i agree with it and wish the record to so reflect thank you thank you very much thank you
 I don't forget your board there. Thank you. Thanks Suzanne. Okay, number 34, Ron Eversole. You too. Number 36, Nancy Luna Jimenez. 37, Antonio Lara. And 38, Tashambe Brown. To be followed by 39, Barbara Quinn. Number 40, Renfro Villatoro. 41, Joe Liebersot.
 And number 42, Constance Beaumont. Okay, good evening. Go ahead.
 My name is Ron Ebersole. I'm a board member of High Noon and I'm actually here to talk to you about the other end of Hayden Island, the east end of Hayden Island. About six years ago, the Hayden Island plan was approved and that Hayden Island plan was based around all the changes that were proposed for the CRC. So it was a...
 significant increase in the infrastructure to support traffic on Hayden Island. It included such things as complete redesign of the on and off ramps, a local bridge, extension of light rail to Hayden Island, and extension of Tomahawk Drive under the bridge. Now, the cancellation of the CRC essentially moves any replacement potentially about 15 to 20 years into the future, given the timing involved.
 that we saw from the previous CRC. But the Hayden Island plan is geared around that infrastructure. And so we'd like to do a few minor corrections to that. Hayden Island is...
 The access to I-5 from the east end of Hayden Island is Tomahawk Island Drive. It's a single two-lane road, and about five to six months of the year, a significant area of it is closed down to almost one lane due to parking and the use of the marinas and local restaurants and infrastructure. Okay.
 We recently have had Yacht Harbor apartments that added 373 units to that end of the island that goes through that narrowed down area. This is currently about 30% occupancy, but the traffic increase is already significant.
 Hayden Island currently has about 2,800 residents. Yacht Harbor itself will add about 27% more residents. There's two other parcels in this area that... I'm sorry.
 in addition we have the rest of your okay great so the key thing that we're after is the two there are two parcels on the east end of the island that have as a result of the hayden island plan were extended to 80 and 90 foot heights this yeah no we've got it we've got it yeah thank you so much thank you good evening good evening
 Can you hear me? Yes. Great. Thank you for taking the time to hear our testimony. My name is Nancy Luna Jimenez and I'm a resident at 215 North Stafford Street in Piedmont neighborhood. And I'm also the founder and president of Luna Jimenez Seminars and Associates, which is a training, consulting, leadership, coaching and facilitation social enterprise committed to social justice.
 I've owned Luna Jimenez Seminars for 22 years and have licensed and registered my small business in the city of Portland and Multnomah County since I moved here in 1998. My business is a certified minority owned, woman owned, disadvantaged and emerging small business with the state of Oregon.
 I'm here tonight with a dear friend, colleague, and client, Antonio Lara with Lara Media, and one of my employees, Sean B. Brown, to testify to recommend removing restrictions on home permanent business occupation for ADUs and expanding the definition of Type B home permits for small businesses.
 Both Sean Bae and I and Antonio will take each our allotted two minutes to complete this testimony and then submit it for the record. Sean Bae has a separate written testimony to submit as does one of my clients, Nicole June Meyer, the president of Northwest Health Foundation who couldn't be here with us this evening.
 for the first 20 years i ran my business out of one of the bedrooms of my home with the value of keeping overhead low and reducing the impact on the environment and since the nature of my business requires that i travel extensively i have always intended to keep my business in my home besides myself i currently have one full-time and one part-time employee i have had as many as two additional full-time employees as well as an intern in addition
 to remote associates and contractors depending on the workflow and needs of my business and my personal life. I purchased my North Stafford home with a basement ADU in July 2013. It's an infill home with the express purpose of having a designated separate physical space for my business away from my personal space. I also wanted a bit more room to flexibly grow or shrink as a small business.
 Although I was aware of the restrictions on home permits in my new location, I assumed that there would be at least an appeal process to continue to have a legal permit to operate my home business. Hello, Commissioners. My name is Antonio Lara. I'm here to support my friend Nancy Luna, and I'm going to continue reading her testimony. When I tried to renew my permit, I was told I couldn't. When I contacted BPS, I was informed the code expressly prohibits any home-based business
 in an ADU and therefore I had no recourse. End of story. When I explained that my next door neighborhood, who have been exact, have exact the same floor plan as I do, have four people with two vehicles and rent out their ADU as an Airbnb with as many as two additional people with at least one additional vehicle, which is allowable,
 Yet, I, as a single woman and a small business owner, couldn't have my business in my ADU, which even with two additional full-time employees, has less impact on the neighborhood and parking than my neighborhoods. I was told that I just, that it's just the way it is. In fact, the person at BPS said, and I quote, this code works for 90% of businesses. And I'm sorry it doesn't work for you.
 I counter that given that this code has not been updated since 1991, the establishment of home-based business, especially by women and minorities, has substantially increased since the Great Recession and permitted and building of ADUs is also rising dramatically. I seriously doubt the code is responding to, let alone anticipating, the need of small business owners like myself.
 I was counseled by more than one city employee with whom I spoke over the last two years to not testify or bring attention to my situation, but to continue to stay below the radar because I hadn't been contacted by the city and I wasn't being fined for being out of compliance.
 I have colleges who have chosen this path and I understand the decision giving, how intensive, stressful, and a drain on pressure resources as a small business. This experience has been on me and my staff for the last two and a half years. Hi there, I'm Chumbey and I'm an employee of Seminars. I'm going to continue reading the testimony.
 I am testifying tonight so that you can hear how these restrictions have placed an unnecessary, unfair, and even discriminatory burden on small business owners. Clearly, these outdated...
 code restrictions were meant to protect homeowners' property value. The defense that ADUs are somehow meant to address Portland's housing crisis, both in terms of availability and affordability, belies the city's decision to allow ADUs to be rented as Airbnbs. Airbnbs certainly make housing more affordable for those who have enough money to buy a home, but it fails to address neither the housing shortage nor affordability for people who don't have the resources to buy a home.
 The idea that additional parking from a small business would be a burden on the neighborhood doesn't take into account the number of adults nor vehicles at a residence without a small business. It simply penalizes the small business. For those of us small business owners who also own homes, we should be allowed to leverage our investment to make home ownership more affordable by having our small business operate in an ADU. In addition to supporting myself, my small business supports my employees.
 And the livelihood of many others as well as providing a valuable service in the community. I would argue the same cannot be said for Airbnbs. At a minimum, I'm requesting that the city code allow for a home permit to either type A or type B and appeal process to be in the ADU.
 Although this is time-consuming and cumbersome on small business, it is better than the current prohibitions. I think the City of Portland, though, can do much better than the minimum. I recommend the City revise the code to support small businesses and even anticipate how home business...
 home-based small businesses are evolving. I propose the code allow either home permit type A or B to be located in an ADU. I also propose that the type B home permit be expanded to include one to five employees as well as a limited number of client visits. Thank you for listening and seriously considering these recommendations as you update the code to remove undue burdens and restrictions for home-based small businesses. Thank you. Thank you very much. That was really useful.
 You made the point well, we get it. Thank you. And we're looking for- Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Okay. So Catherine is going to outlay the options. Okay, all right. I don't think they're here, but I think you're right. Okay, good evening. Good evening again. Barbara Quinn from St. John's, St. John's resident.
 I ask that institutional zoning not be overlaid on the Willamette Bluff. It's an 11-mile environmentally sensitive system traversing North Portland. It's one of the best historic remnant native oak and madrone woodland corridors we have left within the city. It will soon be discovered by the users of the future Willamette Greenway Trail, and I think that everyone...
 view has something to do with the bluff the greenway the trail or the river and if we think of that as one whole This could be an outstanding amenity Especially if we have the development of higher density in the city We're gonna this could be really a wonderful place to go to Sort of get away from the urban environment. There are places in on the greenway that you can't even tell you're in a city and
 More barely. So I think what I'm asking is that we, I have some concerns that University of Portland has already managed to down zone by prevailing to the council down zone an acre and actually two acres that they apparently have planned to do large parking structures.
 And that's concerning, especially since the institutional zoning allows for greater expansion abilities. So what I'm asking is that the bluff be excluded from the institutional overlay and that the university try to use the existing infrastructure, the roads that are there, rather than build anew and add to that. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening.
 Good evening Mayor Hales and council members. My name is Joe Leibazite. I'm the Avian Conservation Program Manager at the Audubon Society of Portland. I'm going to be focusing my testimony on the value of green infrastructure and specifically eco roofs and concerns we have with the status of this program in Portland. First off, we strongly support multiple policies in the draft which highlight the importance of integrating green infrastructure throughout the built landscape.
 As you all know, Eco-roofs provide multiple benefits beyond those gained from conventional roof types by limiting storm water runoff. They reduce harmful contaminants getting in our rivers. They filter air pollutants, absorb carbon dioxide, as well as save energy and reduce maintenance, which directly saves building owners money.
 At Audubon, we recently completed a three year study in collaboration with BES to quantify bird use on the ecoroosts in downtown Portland in comparison to nearby conventional roofs. Our findings indicate that ecoroosts support higher bird abundance than on conventional roofs with rates comparable to that documented on nearby ground level landscape sites. This is another indication of the value of ecoroosts, in this case for urban wildlife.
 Unfortunately, Portland is falling behind in its position as a leading city in green infrastructure. Unlike many North American cities that are aggressively promoting ecoroofs, Portland in recent years has discontinued one of its two ecoroof incentive programs and is currently considering eliminating the other. The numbers tell the story quite starkly. In 2013, approximately 135,000 square feet of ecoroofs were constructed, and in this past 2015, there's less than 30,000 square feet.
 this is particularly ironic since many eco-roof companies call portland their home base but are looking elsewhere to deliver their services we strongly support strengthened commitment to green infrastructure in the comp plan however it is going to be essential that
 that the city follow through and convert words on the page to actions on the ground by instituting strong programs the city should not only be looking at creating incentive programs but also requiring ecaroos in certain circumstances and removing regulatory barriers to installing ecaroos that may exist in the code we look forward to working with the city to implement these policies thanks very much thank you good evening great
 Good evening and thanks for this chance to testify. My name is Constance Beaumont. I'm a member of the Portland Coalition for Historic Resources and I live on the inner east side. I applaud the city's efforts to reduce our carbon footprint through the plan and in other ways. For example, PBOT's efforts to boost bicycling and cut car trips are especially laudable, in my view. That said, I think the city should do much more to protect one of its greatest assets.
 are historic and architecturally distinctive buildings and neighborhoods. I moved to Portland in 2003 in part because of these neighborhoods, but in recent years I've been frankly dismayed to see so many needlessly incompatible, often more auto-centric houses sprouting up randomly. I recognize that higher density development will be needed in carefully selected areas, but density itself is not the goal and in any case it can be done well and it can be done poorly.
 Portland's Residential Infill Task Force is a potentially important vehicle for reducing the current resistance to density, which is often opposed because many people find the new development ugly, intrusive, and dispiriting.
 But since the task force recommendations won't come out until later this year, I hope that the city will establish a formal process for considering and implementing them as soon as they are issued. I also hope the task force could bring in some outside experts from other cities to share ideas about strategies used elsewhere to promote compatible infill and more sensitively designed density.
 Finally, I think we should be planning a city that is not only functional and sustainable, but one that is also beautiful, one that engenders civic pride. It does little good to create a place that is theoretically sustainable if it is not, in fact, sustained, if people don't care about it enough to invest in and maintain it over time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Let's take the next group. Thank you.
 Number 43, Brandon Spencer Hartz. Number 44, Ted Buehler. 45, Tracy Prince. 46, Roger Leachman. Followed by 47, Mark Velke. 48, Brent Carpenter. 49, Elaine Friesen-Strong. And 50, Alan Delatorre.
 We'll take all those folks you called, and then we'll do a process check here. Go ahead, Brandon. Mayor Hales, commissioners, I'm here to talk about the historic and cultural resources policies within the comprehensive plan. What I propose to you tonight is to add an additional policy, 4.55. Put your name on the record, Brandon. Brandon Spencer-Hardell. I'm here representing Restore Oregon. Thank you.
 I'd like you to consider adding an additional policy, 4.55, in the historic and cultural resources section. This addition would support a recent LUBA opinion related to the use of historic resources. Historic resources that lack economic viability fall into demolition by neglect and risk being demolished for more lucrative uses on that site.
 I'd ask you to consider the addition of the following policy. 4.55, economic viability. Provide options and incentives to allow for productive, reasonable, and or adaptive reuses of historic resources.
 While similar to policy 4.56, specific reference to economic viability is needed to set the framework for investing in historic resources and maximizing the use of them into the future. The above policy is adapted from Clackamas County's comprehensive plan, where it has been valuable in facilitating the reuse of complex historic resources. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening.
 Hello, Mayor and Council. Thank you for coming to the Boise neighborhood tonight. My name is Ted Buehler. I'm on the Boise Neighborhood Association. But I'm here representing the advocacy group Bike Loud PDX. We are speaking...
 on behalf of your bicycling constituency, which now numbers something like 8 or 9% of your commuters, and we stand behind your efforts to bring that number up to 25% of working commuters in Portland, and we think that there's a very compelling economic and social justice and...
 environmental reason to improve bicycle facilities in the short term and in the long term and we're fans of the 2030 bicycle master plan which at least which three of you are on council when i spoke in favor of it in 2010
 We sent you a letter. We have some concerns about the TSP and the comp plan we think is great. You're moving forward with all these things, but we noticed five bikeways have been pushed out from where they are in the 2030 bike plan. They're the Inner Sandy Boulevard Bikeway, North Portland Greenway, Hollywood Town Center Safety Improvements, Belmont Morrison Bikeway, and the Inner Holgate Bikeway.
 They were supposed to be done in the next 10 years according to the 2030 bike plan and they're being pushed out to 10 to 20 years out. We're concerned that if those things get pushed out every 10 years for 10 years, they're never going to happen and we're not going to achieve our goals and objectives.
 There's also some things we think that should be moved in closer, like the inner east Burnside bike pet improvements and the Barber bike pet improvements. We think that they should be moved from the one to ten years to the right up front. We're also concerned that the green loop, we're big fans of the green loop. The green loop doesn't seem to be in the comp plan. You know, if there's any way to get it in there now, you should get it in there now.
 Otherwise, thank you very much for all of your hard work, and we will be standing behind you guys trying to get these objectives into the comp plan, and after they're in the plan, get them on the ground so us and your other constituents can enjoy them. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Hi, I'm Tracy Prince, the president of the Goose Hollow Foothills League, which is one of the densest neighborhoods in all of Oregon.
 I'm here tonight to comment on land use amendment number 94, which Goose Hollow strenuously objects to. This will up zone a block of historic buildings in the historic Kings Hill district from single dwelling to multi dwelling zoning. This will absolutely incentivize the destruction of these historic buildings. Buildings that the city has worked hard to protect for decades.
 The owners of these buildings, nearby residents, businesses, and all of the many neighborhood association members that we have heard from object to this change. Yet city staff ignored the overwhelming outpouring of objections from the neighborhood and upzoned anyway. Frankly, this has been a recurring pattern with staff and something that many neighborhoods are very upset about.
 If having a historic district means anything at all, it means that you will not upzone the district and incentivize its demolition. If you care about preserving historic districts in Portland, please remove this upzoning from Kings Hill and other historic districts in Portland.
 Secondly, I want to draw your attention to Chapter 1, Section 19C, which states that the comprehensive plan will supersede any goals or policies of a community, area, or neighborhood plan that are inconsistent with this plan. So this would override the Goose Hollow, Northwest District, and other area plans that hierarchically are usually at the top of the review pyramid.
 This also contradicts assurances received from staff in public meetings. I believe that this phrasing should be reconsidered since staff assured neighborhoods that their local plans will not be invalidated. Lastly, the role of the neighborhood associations has been dramatically diminished in this version of the comp plan. I'm sure that isn't your intention.
 So I believe you will want to revisit how that came to be and how to correct that. And I'm happy to help if you'd like some. Thanks. Thank you very much. Good evening. Hi, my name is Roger Leachman. I serve on the board of the Goose Hollow Foothills League. I'm speaking, however, for myself as a citizen. I add my voice to what our president, Tracy, has said concerning
 the down the upzoning of the historic district i mean this is not rocket science why would you do that to a historic district that's very succinct the thing that concerns me about 1.19c which she has mentioned is that this was done after assurances were given to the neighborhoods so that brings me to the last part of what i want to talk about which is process i can add very little
 to the points that have been made well eloquently and repeatedly by among others robert mccullough of eastmoreland what is described what portland process has become is what policy analysts know as an iron triangle where interest groups
 a bureaucracy and elected officials form the corners of a mutually supportive three-way alliance to advance the financial prospects of the first they are strong as iron because their power prevents the general interest of citizens from interfering with the desired outcomes
 i know this well and the neighborhood knows it well to its cost it's what occurred during the west quadrant process as the continual string of articles in the northwest examiner which i'm sure you read has documented
 and of course the ombudsman's report noted also in the examiner vindicated the concerns our neighborhood raised about the process and which were pooh-poohed in this body
 There are some object lessons there, too many really to go into in two minutes. So I'll just mention one. When trust in government erodes, that trust is hard to restore. There has to be the inclination and the will to do so, and that has to be evidenced in behavior and outcomes. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 And we have four more queued up. Did you already call this? I thought you did. Okay, let's call those four, and then we'll take a process check here. Okay. 47, Mark Belke. 48, Brent Carpenter. 49, Elaine Friesen-Strong. And 50, Alan Delatore. Good evening. Good evening, Mayor, Commissioners.
 My name is Mark Velke. I'm a member of the Goose Hollow Foothills League board and we represent about 6,500 people and the following is the official GHFL board position.
 I'll just read that to you the Goose Hollow Foothills League ghfl a Portland neighborhood association that also represents the Kings Hill National Historic District strenuously objects to Portland comprehensive plan amendment number 94 changing a residential designation in a residential area to mixed-use dispersed commercial plan designation
 The suggested amendment number 94 designates an existing one half block of contributing historic residential buildings that are presently adaptively used for commercial purposes as commercial properties, putting them in a historic district at risk for redevelopment. The existing nonconforming use.
 exists due to a 35-year-old agreement between the neighborhood and the owners that allowed an interim commercial use at a time when the buildings could be better preserved by allowing that commercial use. Now in 2016, these historic homes are as valuable preserved as fine dwellings as they are for their office uses. It has always been the intent of the GHFL and the historic district that these homes would revert to residential use.
 The bottom line, if it's not broken, don't fix it. Also, we're opposed, meaning the GHFL, to a zone change in proposed amendment number 1117 that changes the zone from general commercial to mixed-use urban center, and that's basically...
 Kind of at the east end of the tunnel, the max tunnel going into the zoo. It's just it doesn't make any sense at all.
 So, anyway, thank you for your time and listening. Thank you. Have you submitted that as well by email? I can, sir. Please do. Yes, sir. All right. Go ahead, please. Mayor Hales and commissioners, thank you. My name is Brent Carpenter. I'm testifying today about our property at 1834 Southeast Ash Street. My wife and I are residents, have been residents of Southeast Portland for the last 18 years and have owned this property since 2007.
 When the proposed comprehensive plan was released earlier this year, we expected this property to be changed from R2.5 to multi-dwelling 1,000 because every other property on our side of Ash Street between 18th and 20th is currently zoned either office commercial or is non-conforming R1.
 Our understanding was that the plan, the proposed plan, was to try to match what was already on the ground. And in this case, our side of the block, the south side from 1822 to 1932 Southeast Ash, would have been changed to multi-dwelling 1,000 to reflect what already existed on the ground. There are three non-conforming R1 multifamily apartments on both sides of our single-family home.
 We are the only single family home on that side of the block. Because the house is landlocked between all these multi-family apartment buildings, the best use for that property really is to be converted eventually to multi-family to fit that side of the street. Up-sowing this section on Ash Street essentially affects one property, ours, but it embodies the spirit of sensible density.
 1834 Southeast Ash fits the designation of multifamily 1000. It's in an area of major corridor, Southeast Burnside, and a secondary corridor, Southeast 20th with multiple public services and access to extensive public transportation.
 We are asking the council to reconsider the current R2.5 zoning for the south side of our block from 1822 to 1932 Southeast Ash Street and propose changing the designation to multi-dwelling 1,000 to match what exists on the ground. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening, Mayor Hales and city commissioners. My name is Elaine Friesen Strang, and I want to thank you for this opportunity to testify.
 My husband and I have lived in Northeast Portland for many years. In fact, our kids went to the same public grade and high schools that my husband did. And it is our hope that we will be able to stay in our home and in our neighborhood as we get older. In addition to being a longtime Portlander, I'm here today as a volunteer leader for AARP Oregon. On behalf of the 60,000 AARP members in the city of Portland,
 I thank you for the city's commitment to make the city a great place for people of all ages and abilities. Specifically, with respect to transportation, we applaud your intent to design a system that accommodates the most vulnerable users. The fact that Oregon's residents, aged 65 years and older, have a pedestrian fatality rate that is 83% higher than
 than for people age 64 and younger indicates that we have some work to do. We thank you for putting walking as a top priority in policy 9.6. However, we ask that you move transit to the second place after walking in the transportation ranking. According to an ARP study, a man who is 70 years old today is likely to outlive his driving by six years.
 A woman who is 70 will outlive her driving by 11 years. The study also found that 50% of people age 50 and older say they could not continue to live in their current neighborhood if they could no longer drive. Having mobility options other than driving is critical to enable people to continue living in their own home and neighborhood.
 In moving transit in the priority ranking, you will be serving the greater good. Older adults, families with children who can't afford a car, and individuals who rely on transit because of physical and mental challenges. Portland needs to make transit a priority so that all its residents can meet their needs and have quality lives. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening. Good evening, Mayor Hales, city commissioners. My name is Alan De La Torre. I'm here representing the Institute on Aging at Portland State as well as the Portland Commission on Disabilities and the Age Friendly Advisory Councils for Portland and Multnomah County. I want to just give one statistic rather than beating you over the head with many that we have at the academic institution I work at.
 The common plan states that there will be 120,000 new people by 2035 and of those 40 to 45% will include a home with somebody who's older than 65. We need to prepare for those individuals in a number of different ways. We're all also tabs, temporarily able bodied and the sooner that we can prepare for communities that will meet our needs as we change, the better our community will be.
 I'd like to applaud both the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and City Council for working hard through the processes of Vision PDX, the Portland Plan, and now the Comprehensive Plan to advance policies. That address the needs of people with all ages and abilities. I'd like to say that well done, but we have more room to go. We have implementation of policies that are really important moving forward.
 I'd like to say that of the policies that we've highlighted, we've submitted those, both the Portland Commission on Disabilities and the Institute on Aging, for the record. And I won't be able to cover them all today, but I want to highlight a few that are really important in our efforts. The first is with respect to urban form, Policy 3.4, all ages and abilities, striving for environments that are good for people across the age and ability spectrum.
 Policy 3.19, accessibility, really important to design good compact urban centers. And I'd like to highlight that that quarter mile radius is important, especially for older adults who are frail and people with disabilities. Just to move quickly through the policies, policy 4.15 is very important with residential area continuity and adaptability. The idea of multiple ADUs is something that's intriguing and something that we should think about moving forward.
 We highly, highly support the Aging in Place policy that's been created the first time that Portland has had an Aging in Place policy. So just to sum up, I'd like to support what Elaine had said regarding the switching of the transportation hierarchy of moving transit above cycling, and as a cyclist, that pains me to a certain extent, but we know it's important for our communities. Please continue to help us in advancing an age-friendly Portland. Your support's been incredibly important to this stage.
 Age Friendly does not show anywhere within the current comprehensive plan, and so perhaps there's an opportunity to get that in there in some way. We'd also like to say, remember that the devil is in the details, and the work that we're doing is one step in the whole journey that we've got that we have to take together. So with your continued support, we look forward to working together toward making Portland an age friendly city, good for all ages and all abilities. Thank you, thank you very much.
 so we do need to take a process check we're about to wear out our welcome here as guests at sei and i know we still have quite a few people that have signed up to testify i want to hear some suggestions for how we might proceed just let me do a check i know we've still got maybe 50 people on the list how many people who are still here are planning to testify yeah so more than we can accommodate this evening so catherine your thoughts um let's see is this on no red
 Okay. It seems like there's sort of two primary possibilities. One would be to set yet a fifth hearing date and continue this hearing to a fifth hearing date within the next week, two weeks, maybe.
 whatever. Another option would be to set a time up to which you'll take testimony tonight. Take as much testimony as you can and then perhaps hold the record open for whatever period of time you designate so that those people who weren't able to testify tonight have an opportunity to submit written testimony before you close the evidentiary record.
 My preference, although, again, it would be great if we could squeeze this in tonight, but I don't think we're going to manage that. My preference would be to set another hearing, but to allow it specifically to take place for the people that have signed up and who have not yet had a chance to speak. Obviously, that means for those of you that did that, that you'll have to come to two hearings instead of one, but at least you know that you will get a chance to have your say. So that would be my suggestion. Yes. Okay, that looks like it has some support in the room. Okay.
 So unless I hear an objection to that, we'll go from, we went from three hearings to four, and now we're going to go from four to five, but it's important. I mean, obviously you've got a lot of points to raise with us, and this is the most important document that all of us will ever get to work on. So it's pretty important that we hear you. So I don't know if you're at a position right now to suggest a date for that.
 and a date and time we'll figure out maybe place later or revert to City Hall obviously one of the good things about tonight is that we were out in the community and we like doing that with hearings when we get the chance so we might see if SCI would accommodate us a second time talk about wearing out our welcome but let's see if first of all our staff has any suggestion for a particular date
 Mayor Hales, two thoughts. It would be really good if we could establish a date and time before you leave tonight so that we can specifically continue it and not have to send out new mailed notice. Secondly, you could set up the hearing so that...
 you take first anybody who signed up tonight and wasn't able to testify I don't know that you could preclude anybody knew who wanted who showed up and wanted to testify no but we could also have a hard stop at some point because we can't we obviously can't continually have hearings but we do want to accommodate a whole lot of people signed up and came tonight so so do you have some suggestions for us
 I think we don't have a council Wednesday. All right. Is it Wednesday afternoon next week we don't have a council? I think that's correct. I think you're right, Dan. I think that's right. Can some of you come during the day? Can some of you not come during the day? Okay. So what we might do is if we started late enough, we might be able to accommodate both of you. Wednesday. So if we went, say, from 3 to 6 on Wednesday...
 Wednesday the 13th we're talking about Wednesday of next week that looks like we might be able to get almost everyone's into that window so going going on does that work so without objection I'm gonna set we don't have a council Wednesday afternoon I'm supposing to start a little later than
 Well, because there are some people that I think would have difficulty getting here before 5. Is that right? Yeah. So if we went from 3 to 6. Well, I guess I was anticipating that the other people coming weren't on the list. And we recognize your place. Yeah. But we'll manage the hearing in a way that those who have signed up will be able to testify. And we'll take you in the order that you have signed up. If some of you cannot get there until after 5 p.m., why don't you let the clerk know that
 Four to seven. The number of hands. I saw Ray. It's not that many people here. Raise your hands again if you're planning to testify, because I think there's about 40 or 50 people left. So that should be a two-hour hearing. You want to start at four? Four to six. Okay. So let's start at 4 p.m. on Wednesday the 13th. Location, City Hall?
 Okay, we're going to revert to a building that we own, that we know we can use, and set that for City Hall on Wednesday, the 13th of January at 4 p.m.
 So thank you all for your patience for those of you who didn't get to speak, and thank you all very much for the testimony that we received tonight. We will continue this hearing until January 13th at 4 p.m., and we are adjourned. If you're not able to come next week, you're welcome to send us e-mails and just put in the subject line, was not able to testify tonight or can't testify next week so that we –
 are sure to read your email over the hundreds of others that we get. Thank you so much. I think it's part and parcel of continuing the hearing, but the written record will stay. Yeah, the written record is going to remain open. That's right. Thank you. You can just send them to the council clerk and she will get them to us. Thank you very much, everybody.