Good morning, Carla. Good morning. We are in session. This is the Wednesday morning, January 16th, 2019 session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Hardesty. Here. Udailey. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 the presiding officer determines the length of testimony individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated when you have 30 seconds left a yellow light goes on when your time is done a red light goes on if you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that's being said please feel free to do a thumbs up if you want to express that you do not support something please feel free to do a thumbs down the
 Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. Before we move to communications, I'd like to turn this over to Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, community members. I have a brief statement that I'd like to read for you. As I start my third week here on the Portland City Council, I am concerned about how privilege, and specifically white male privilege, is limiting the public's access to City Hall.
 There's a chilling effect on persons who are unaccustomed to coming to City Hall to have their voices heard when they see and experience the disruption that seems to be the new normal at Portland City Hall. The privilege afforded a small group of white men to be disrespectful, to be disruptive, to be self-centered is not appropriate behavior in this building.
 This behavior limits access to those entering this building for the very first time or who are new to the political process.
 I ran my campaign on a platform of creating One Portland, a Portland where regardless of race, income, sexual orientation, or country of origin, you would have a respectful interaction and reception when you entered city hall from city officials. We fail in our job when we don't make access equal, accessible, and fair to all who seek a voice in our process.
 We are all aware that we live in a state built on white supremacy, and that legacy of that history lingers on today. Many of the disruptors I know personally and respect their desire to be heard and the issues that they care about. However, their issues and concerns shouldn't drown out the voices of others who have come to this building seeking the same access and opportunity.
 As someone who has spent time, a lot of time, on the other side of this podium demanding accountability, I find it chilling and disrespectful that there are a few white men who think that everything this council does is about them. It isn't.
 I want to engage people from all walks of life and their local government, but I am very concerned about how they will experience their local government if their first, second, or third visit is what we have seen previously in these council chambers. My open message to those who seek to disrupt this process is this.
 If you have a proposal to improve the outcomes for the people in the City of Portland, you will find a welcoming ear and my office ready to assist you. However, if this is simply about having footage for your YouTube channel or your Facebook page, you should be aware that using your privilege in this way cannot continue. You have a right to have your voice heard.
 I am encouraging other white men and women to check the behavior of those who seek to drown out voices of others. Civic discourse cannot thrive if it is not coupled with civility and respect for all.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. And I know others would like to comment as well. Thank you for your strong statement. Commissioner Fish. Well, first of all, I want to just congratulate our newest member for her statement, which I strongly support, and thank you. I also want to just acknowledge, Commissioner, that we often hear from our employees. In addition to this chamber where we do official business,
 This is a building where lots of people work. And we have witnessed significant disruptions that go from chambers into the workplace. And people have told us that increasingly they don't feel safe and welcome in their own workplace. We have an obligation to maintain a safe workplace and a respectful workplace. It's a legal obligation under federal and state law.
 We want people to feel pride in service, and we want people to know they can come to work and be safe. So I would simply add to your excellent statement that as we think about how we model good behavior in this space, let's also remember that just outside these doors is a place where lots of people work, and they have a right to enjoy a safe and respectful workplace as well.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for your leadership. I thoroughly support what you said. Thank you.
 I have a couple of comments as well. First of all, thank you for your strong statement. There are plenty of opportunities for people to have their voice heard in this chamber, and you've heard me say this many times. People can sign up for communications. That gives you three minutes to talk about whatever you want to talk about. People have the right to testify on the first readings of resolutions, of ordinances, etc.
 And there are other opportunities to have one's voice heard as well. What we have witnessed in this chamber, and I would say last week was actually a new low. We had a large group of people coming in for the reading of a proclamation. They happened to be from the Eastern European and Slavic communities. And what they were subjected to was 15 minutes of hostility and verbal abuse.
 And as you heard me say last week, and I'll say it again, that has no place in this chamber.
 It is not only highly disrespectful to the people who are trying to be heard, who have signed up for their time or have come in to testify on a particular issue. It's a form of harassment and intimidation to try to shut down their voice. And you heard me say that last week as well. And as Commissioner Fish has just rightly pointed out, there are many employees in this city who are required to come here to this chamber
 and either be present like our legal counsel and our clerk, or they are required to testify as a condition of their employment.
 and they should not be subjected to any kind of verbal abuse. It takes time away from the rest of our agenda, and we've seen in the past when people are disruptive, when they protest, when they lie down on the floor, when they start swearing at people, when they force us to clear the chamber. That takes time away from everybody else because it shortens the amount of time that's unavailable for public testimony later in the agenda.
 It also costs the taxpayers a significant amount of money. I do not need to tell anybody in this chamber that we have had to significantly increase security expenditures over the last year, year and a half in response to what Commissioner Hardesty describes correctly as a relatively small group of highly disruptive individuals. And last but not least, I get asked all the time. People say, well, hey, Ted, you are the presiding officer. It is your job.
 to maintain decorum in this chamber. You know these people are disruptive. You know they are coming here explicitly for the purpose of disrupting this democratic process. Why don't you just exclude them? And the answer is the courts have thus far held that we cannot preemptively exclude anybody from this chamber.
 based on their First Amendment right to be here. We cannot presume that they are going to act out based on past behavior. And maybe it's time we revisit some of our obligations with regard to maintaining an open, welcoming, and respectful environment for everyone. So I know my colleagues are interested in this conversation. We'd certainly be interested in feedback from the public today.
 But Commissioner Hardesty is right. This chamber should be packed today. It should be full of people. We have an agenda that includes affordable housing. It includes significant pay equity issues. It includes significant issues that are of concern to everybody. And there was a time when you could fill both the first and the second floor of this chamber with citizens who wanted to come in and hear what their elected officials were doing. But for a very, very small time,
 Number of people from the outside this chamber is largely full of city employees and people who are on the agenda today and a small handful of others. And to me, that is damaging to our democracy.
 And it undercuts the right and the privilege that people have to be here to speak, to be heard, and otherwise enjoy their First Amendment rights. So, Commissioner Hardesty, that was a long way of saying thank you. I appreciate your statement, and I strongly support it. Thank you for bringing it forward. Very good. And with that, communications.
 Item 31, request of Dorothy Holland to address counsel regarding Portland Gray Panthers. So I had a question of the folks who are testifying on communications. I notice you are all with the Portland Gray Panthers today. Would you all like to come up at the same time or come up individually? It's your choice. Whatever makes you feel more comfortable. Thank you.
 Dorothy is not able to make it. Okay. I'll read the rest. 32, request of Brian T.J. Jackson to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. And 33, request of Sally F. Frosman Cecil to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. And 34, request of Edith Gillis to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. And 35, request of Lou Church to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. Thank you for being here. Thank you.
 Thank you for having us. Good morning. I don't know who would like to start, whoever would like to start. If you could just state your name for the record, please. Okay. My name is Brian Jackson. I live at the Yards Apartments down right next to the Broadway Bridge. I'm a 100% disabled veteran that was, let's say, residentially challenged up until I got a voucher from Home Forward. Since then, we've been having a lot of problems financially.
 with the management there, with everything from maintenance to security problems. We have tenants that have had serious electrical problems in their apartments that have taken months for those things to be taken care of, and there are safety issues. We've had black mole, cockroaches, rats. There's a problem with management not following through with maintenance, and the city has a big investment in this property. I think it was somewhere in the neighborhood of $21 million.
 we shouldn't be having these problems. Home4 is not following through and holding their management company accountable. At one point, I did contact Commissioner Daly's office, who was very instrumental in pointing us in the right direction. Thank you very much. Your staff spent a lot of time with me getting us on track, getting us to code enforcement. We had a crime assessment done through the city, which was very helpful in trying to get some things done. Unfortunately,
 The management company has not done anything on that crime assessment except trim some bushes, and it's been very frustrating. There's a lot of people that are in that complex that have disabilities. The management company retaliates against any tenant that bucks their system. They've tried to evict some of the tenant unions. I run the tenant union there as well.
 They've tried to wrongfully evict one tenant who complained she had a broken window and over a month to get it replaced in wintertime. It's just ridiculous. We have another tenant that has had some maintenance problems. I could go on and on, but that's just a sample of it.
 We did contact code enforcement, the city, they had the crime assessment done. We got a hold of Portland's Tending United. So your office definitely got us in the right direction. It was a great resource list that you provided for us. Unfortunately, we're still being crushed by Home 4's not being proactive in holding their management company or their company accountable. What we're asking the city for is to
 Lean on Home Forward a little bit to ensure that management stops the harassments and what they're doing. To anybody that's in the tenants' union, they're retaliatory against, and it shouldn't be that way. They're destroying Home Forward's mission statement, which is provide safe housing. Mr. Jackson, what was the name of the property you live in? The Yards Apartments. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Congratulations, Commissioner Hardesty, on your position. Thank you. It's nice to know my vote went to something nice. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Sally Fronsman Cecil, and I'm speaking as an advocate for the homeless in Portland today on behalf of Gray Panthers. Homelessness is an ongoing state of emergency in Portland. Thank you.
 This is affecting more and more elders along with many other vulnerable populations, people with disabilities, families, and just those who have been displaced by social, political, and economic disaster. We must do more now for citizens living on the streets of Portland. We need to fulfill our social contract immediately.
 the way we would when many people are displaced by a natural disaster. Instead, the city of Portland and the state are sweeping tent encampments away. Merchants complain about the homeless downtown. The people in the community object to people in their backyard. No one wants homeless people on the street.
 We can't sweep people with no place to go under some kind of imaginary rug. Long term isn't good enough in a state of emergency so serious that such a large group of citizens are on the street every day right now. Now, I want to say I am not a person who is going to say the sky is falling.
 I have a victim survivor services certification. I have studied and done at least mock versions of mitigation, preparedness, response, and getting over basically disasters, mass victimization. This is something I've cared about for a long time.
 I don't think it's a bad thing that we're doing long-term planning, but I do think that a lot more could be done now. People object to health issues, urination, those kinds of things, but we don't provide any kind of porta-potties or anything for people.
 People complain about people not working, and yet we don't do what you would do in any country, cooperative efforts or something that the Peace Corps have done, that people in the VISTA program here have done. There are so many things we could do that we don't do that could be done now to help people. And I just kind of think that that is something that's not sufficient.
 that we're not acting now the way we should for people who need help now.
 Thank you. And perfectly timed, by the way. That's hard to do. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Edith Gillis, and I'm presenting you some solutions that city council can implement pretty soon. And I'm going to give you two examples that I've observed where people who were elderly with disabilities were made houseless as a result of city policy.
 In one case, it involved making at least 12 people houseless, jobless, indebted, and further disabled. So immediately punish any use of Portland dollars used to make people houseless. This includes city taxes, fees, fines, impound, confiscation, theft, hold, grants, loans, tax breaks, or partnerships. Punish the harassment or worse of people who are houseless, poor, or suffering. Doc, cop, pay. Okay.
 Withhold resources and punish landlords and shelters for evicting or raising rents due to police harassing tenants and guests. Punish murderers, attackers, rapists, extortioners, and their associates for frequenting or terrorizing their crime victims and victim families. When they do so, landlords often evict the victims. Protect civilians' rights, access, and use of their documents, tools, clothing, gear, and transport needed for housing, work, and custody health.
 that otherwise would make them houseless. Punish Portland cop uniforms, gear used off-duty, especially to terrorize poor or suffering people. If you're not being paid on duty, don't wear the uniform. Pay Portland cops, et cetera, normal rates during protests, paperwork for end-of-shifts arrests, houseless interactions, or military exercises. Frequently, they will wait till the end of the shift and arrest houseless so they can get overtime at the end of the shift.
 As soon as possible, redirect such police monies and means to instead provide housing and mental health. Punish the cop use of or profit from items confiscated or stolen. Redirect any or all items or funds to provide housing or legal support, if not promptly return to its owner. Hold individual cops in the Bureau liable for misconduct. Every month, I hear you...
 voting to give more and more money to the police and spend more and more money taken away from other services that we need in order to pay for the consequences of police misconduct. Hold individual cops and the Bureau liable for the misconduct and redirect to housing money for cops paid administrative leave, pension pay for cop involved with excessive force or deaths and
 The two examples that I gave is when I was donating some materials to the Gateway Center, I saw a woman who was elderly with disabilities, frantic. She had just been made houseless by the city of Portland police, who had gone after her landlord because he couldn't get mail when he was in the hospital dying with cancer and was blind. And then when they had a hearing, while he was at City Hall to have the hearing, the Portland police came.
 with military weapons and closed down the house and evicted all of the people who had businesses on the property and all the tenants who had been paid. All their property was destroyed and they lost housing, they didn't have their paperwork. And another case, the grandmother of a child who was murdered.
 is repeatedly harassed by the police as they make false charges and arrests. And as a victim of constant police harassment, she can be evicted from Home Forward. Thank you. Appreciate your coming in today. Excuse me, Mayor. Commissioner Hardesty. Edith, can you tell me what the apartment complex is that you refer to? This latter is Home Forward's Peaceful Villa on 47th and Clinton.
 And it was Azzy, the grandmother of Patrick Kimmons. And it was a house with several businesses and other housing within it in which people had businesses and housing. All those people became unemployed and houseless as a result of the Portland police doing an illegal action and then destroying their property. And that was on Johnson Creek. And when was this? East of 82nd. When was this? June.
 About a year ago on Johnson Creek and currently at Peaceful Villa. Could I ask one question, Edith? Yes, please. So you're claiming that the police engaged in illegal activity. Repeatedly. Did anybody file a complaint with Independent Police Review Commission so that it would be investigated? No, because when some of the same people had done similar things, those reports were missing and they were further harassed. At this point, they were a matter of life and death. By the auditor's office?
 The Independent Police Review Commission is in the auditor's office. Was somebody in the auditor's office threatening or harassing them? No. Portland Police threatened them, and the papers that they would follow up on when they got attorneys or friends found out that those papers were no longer or that those files were no longer there. That has also happened with Independent Police Review for police in the past.
 And then this woman was across the street from just kind of in a grassy area between Johnson Creek and that property. And then a man that was just down in the tent that people thought was her was being raped. And when she called the police to try to protect him, she was arrested.
 So the harassment goes on and on. These are very serious allegations you're making. So I would appreciate some, if you could give us a date, a time, a place, any of the above, I will file the request. But these are very, very serious allegations you're making, and this is the first I'm hearing about it. So if you have some facts, I would encourage you to bring them forward. Thank you.
 All right. First time. Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. There's only three chairs. Yes, sir. Thank you. I apologize. Thank you. Welcome. Morning. Morning. Good morning. Joanne.
 Amanda, Chloe, Nick and Ted. First I want to thank TJ, Sally and Edie for speaking with us today. Grey Panthers is concerned and has been over time as organizers on housing, targeting both IPM, Income Property Management, which is a subcontractor for Home Forward in a great many cases, as well as Home Forward itself on tenant rights and housing.
 Overall, as we've experienced the largest federal government shutdown in U.S. history, thanks to the most right-wing pro-capitalist president in U.S. history, Donald Trump, it's important to note why many of us continue to advocate in some cases, like TJ and Sally and Edie, to militantly but hopefully persuasively advocate for tenant rights and housing, for legalizing rent control in Oregon, finally.
 for speaking up and fighting back for those whose voices have been silenced or simply ignored. Nationally, the silenced and ignored have included elders who attend church from Charleston to Pittsburgh. They include students no longer with us from Sandy Hook to Columbine to Parkland. Here in the Northwest, more recently, the silenced and ignored have included Karen Batts and Jason Washington. Thank you.
 I handed out copies to Council of recent Grey Panther blurbs on housing, rent control and tenant rights. The title for one, Ted Wheeler and the Ghost of Karen Batts, was changed to the more polite real action needed to ease housing crisis.
 has been kind enough over the past year to print articles we sent in vis-a-vis the May 15th primary last year in that election, why Joanne Hardesty by far was the best choice of the five candidates in that primary, along with an article for effective gun control laws to ban assault weapons and ban high-caliber magazines. We appreciate the Tribune doing that. Going forward, the tripartite presidency of Donald Trump, Mitch McConnell, and Rush Limbaugh seeks to do one thing,
 protect privilege and power of white men against the poor, against workers, against immigrants, against students and tenants and transit riders,
 against Black and Brown, against 53 not real countries, to paraphrase Trump just a bit. However, Gray Panthers believe that impeachment, rent control, and gun control are more than aspirational goals. We believe that if folks like, in history, Steve Biko, Chris Fahney, Tom Hayden, Dorothy Day, Harvey Milk, Rosa Luxemburg, Bernadette Devlin, Michael Collins, Bobby Sands, Dan and Philip Berrigan, and Michael Harrington,
 that these folks were alive and living in Portland, Oregon today, they would assert with us that rent control in Salem, that gun control in the land of active shooters, and impeachment against a fascist, racist, sexist president are finite, achievable goals. We hope to see our newly diverse city council here in lowly Portland, Oregon, play a vital role in creating economic democracy in our world, not just more economic fascism under the Trump junta.
 Thanks for coming in. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda, Carla? Yes, we've had 38. Item 38 pulled. Very good. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Item number 36, first time certainty.
 Authorize new construction financing in an amount not to exceed $4.5 million for construction of the North Williams Center, a 61-unit affordable housing project. Colleagues, apropos to the public testimony we just heard, I'm very proud to bring forward 60 additional units of affordable housing that's going to be added to the city's affordable housing stock.
 As you've heard me say on behalf of the Housing Bureau a number of times, this last year in 2018 we delivered a record number of affordable housing units to the City of Portland. We expect that in 2019 we will nearly double that. This is one of the first that we'll be undertaking this year. This project today will contribute to the overall Northeast housing strategy, which the community brought forward to the City of Portland. The community requested this.
 And I want to particularly thank our partner Multnomah County in contributing the site for this development and bridge housing on their third affordable project here in the city of Portland. And with that, I'll turn it over to Shannon. Are you kicking us off today? I am, Peggy. Director Callaham.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. I am here this morning to ask for your approval for the construction financing of the North Williams Center, a new 61-unit development to be developed, as we've heard, by Bridge Housing. In the fall of 2015, the Housing Bureau, along with Home Forward and Multnomah County, released this property.
 for development and Bridge Housing was the winner of that development proposal and has been working with the community and the Housing Bureau since then to bring this project to fruition. The North Williams Center is located on the corner of North Williams and Tillamook. It will provide permanent affordable housing and homes to 195 new residents. I'm sorry, 194 new residents.
 The North Williams Center will provide deeply affordable homes for 40 households, households who make less than 30% of the median family income. Lease-up of the building will also be subject to the city's preference policy, which prioritizes families with generational ties to north and northeast Portland. It's the sixth of the city's rental properties to be moved forward into the construction phase or opened that are subject to the north and northeast preference policy.
 And the center will also provide 10 units of supportive housing for households.
 who need the services to be successful in their housing and beyond. The Joint Office is working closely with both the Portland Housing Bureau and Bridge Housing to make this a reality, and I'd like to thank them for stepping in to offer both service and operating support to make sure that this building is successful and is home for 10 households moving off the street out of homelessness.
 Before I turn it over to the team at Bridge to say a few words, I'd just like to note that we expect construction to start this spring, actually in March of this year, and construction is expected to be complete by May of next year, welcoming 194 new residents into permanent affordable housing. Shannon, before you turn it over, could you go back one slide? Sure. I just have to point this out. I mean, this is affordable housing.
 And look at that. I mean, that is architecturally, in my opinion, stunning. And I think it's great that we're not only doing the right thing here by way of very low-income people in our community, we're actually providing them an amazing place to call home. That looks great. And I just want to applaud our partners for that. Thank you. Shannon, two questions. Commissioner Fish. First is, what was the secret sauce that allowed you to, in this development –
 with 61 units to set aside 10 units for supportive housing? Because that's both in the aggregate it's a big number, but as a percentage of the overall it's a big number. So how are we able to accomplish that? Well, there are 40 units in this building that are supported with long-time rent subsidy through vouchers. And so permanent supportive housing requires three basic pieces of funding to make it work –
 One is rent subsidies to make sure that we're buying down rents for the folks who need it the most, the very low-income folks, folks who may have zero or very little income. The second is making sure that we have operating support to make the building successful. When you have a number of individuals who require support services, it also usually requires additional operating support to the building by way of onsite resident managers or additional property management support.
 And thirdly, it's the service funding that comes presently from the joint office. And this building presented some unique opportunities with the fact that it had so many voucher units in it. And the joint office is able to program the additional operating support this building will need to be successful as well as providing the support services. So it's just the perfect mix of all three of the three-legged stool that we need to make permanent supportive housing work.
 Thank you very much. Good morning. I'm Kim McKay with Bridge Housing, and I'm very pleased to be here. Good morning. Kim, you could move that mic closer. Closer? Yeah. Is that better? Yes.
 So actually, I would just like to open it up to further questions that you guys may have. And I'm here with Dustin Ferdin, who is our senior PM on the project. And I would say kudos to our staff for working very closely with the community over the last few years. We feel that we have a lot of support there. And it's been a very...
 very rewarding relationship to ensure that we have a project that is both beautiful but also will meet the needs of the immediate local community. So please, any questions you have, we're here to answer. Commissioner Hardesty. Kim, I have a question which might seem like a strange question. There's one unregulated unit out of 61 units. Why? Why? That's our manager unit. Oh. So rather than restricted, it allows us. Okay, that makes sense.
 This is Bridge's third project, is that right? Correct. So my recollection, because I think I was the housing commissioner at the time, was the first one was in the Pearl District. Correct. And the second one you did was? We have River Place under construction right now. Which is under construction. Correct. So this is your third. And I know Bridge does work up and down the coast, and you have quite a track record there.
 What specific expertise does Bridge bring to managing the units, the 10 units of supportive housing, and also making sure that the people who are in deeply subsidized units feel welcome in the community? Well, it's a great question, and I'm happy to say we have a lot of experience with mixed-income housing, which is basically what this is.
 Most communities that we're developing in now have a requirement that in addition to the affordable housing, up to 60% AMI, that we include a percentage, and it varies in every jurisdiction, of permanent supportive housing or special needs housing or homeless housing. And so our management, we self-manage most of our properties and take that responsibility.
 commitment and obligation very, very seriously. And so it is, as Shannon alluded to, we do underwrite to meeting the service needs of the special population and it's strong management. So I would welcome all of you to come see both the properties we have in Portland and if you're out of town to come see some of the other mixed income properties we have. But examples, you know, Parcel 3 has a number of PSH units and
 The Abigail doesn't, but we have a number of properties in the Bay Area where they're actually even heavier, a much larger population, and they've been very successful. And does Bridge currently have a physical presence here in Portland? We do. Have you opened an office? We do. We have an office that's here in downtown, and we have a staff of four people.
 Actually, five professional development staff. Our accounting staff is here. IT is here. And we're looking at bringing property management up into the market this year. Terrific. Thank you very much. Very good. Public testimony on this item. Carla? Yes, we have six people signed up. Okay. Thank you very much. No, you can go ahead, and we might bring you back if there's follow-up questions based on testimony.
 The first three, please come on up, are Edith Gillis, Lightning, and Shedrick Wilkins. Good morning. I'm hoping that you're feeling my love and commitment today because I'm going to be here all day. What I want to say is please, in your figuring of affordable rent, have it be –
 the same percentages of income distribution in the City of Portland as in new multiple unit housing. So if there are 100 units and 30% of the people in the City of Portland make under or have under $10,000 a year, have one-third of one-twelfth of that be their monthly cap on rent, et cetera.
 Edith, can I just make a comment? Thank you for that admonition. If we followed that logic in this project, we'd woefully underperform.
 And I just think we should acknowledge that 40 of the 60 units here are being set aside for people that make between zero and 30 percent in median family income. So we are talking about people who are typically served by either Home Forward or by project-based sponsored units. So this greatly outperforms even the standard that you've articulated. I misspoke. I meant to say –
 A minimum of that low income being available. Thank you. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Humanity XX1 PDX. Bridge, you're right on the mark. Very impressive work.
 You stayed in with the threshold of the 30% AMI and below for the 40 units. But what I really like about your project is that you also were sensitive to the square footage size of the units, very livable units. And as you know, instead of going to these micro units, people want to stay long-term in good-sized square footage units.
 I think you hit everything here. Very impressive work, and I hope to see you get many more contracts and projects. Now, speaking just for myself, not to bridge directly, being a bridge loan, or construction loan, I'm sorry here, will that loan be repaid in the future? Again, some of the problems I have on these type of deals is I like to have a due-on-sale clause
 in the future maybe to pay back this type of loan, even if it's 20 years in the future. I'd like to see that, and I know that's up for debate.
 Issue number two on the Multnomah County property. I want to have the city of Portland pay full fair market value for that and to fund Multnomah County. I'm going to look at that. I'm going to contact CBRE. I'm going to have an appraisal done on that piece of land. I want Multnomah County to receive full value for that. Again, for their services that they provide at Multnomah County. No discounts.
 Again, just for my own use, I like to see the overall price stated on these ordinances. I like to see the overall unit price. Again, the building looks fantastic.
 Everything I see here is within the parameters of the way it should be done. Again, on the sustainable housing units, I'd like to see a more detailed plan on how that will be paid for, where the sustainable money will come from to pay for that. And as you know, I'm projecting maybe...
 $1,000 per month per unit additional value price to that. Again, that's up for debate. I'd like to see the numbers. I'd like to understand the services provided to these people. But again, this looks very impressive. Get more contracts. Keep up the good work. Thank you very much. Good morning. Morning. Happy New Year. You too. Thank you very much. Speak to say it. Since Christmas.
 I believe that North Portland, Northeast Portland is the only place where
 where homeless people or people who are disadvantaged can go. You did not make the Terminal 1 shelter. You have not yet built the Pearl District shelter, which is right near my HUD apartment at Yards. I was going to volunteer. I'm very disappointed. When I was homeless in 2011, there was a mass medical thing at the Memorial Coliseum. Commissioner Keefe,
 Novick mentioned the Memorial Coliseum as a mash place to put sheltered people. I agree. I'm a veteran. I'm supposed to protect this country and protect people who are sick or cold or whatever. And just the basement has a large area. The area of least resistance, you bang around right to dream too. Where did you put it? Right across the street from the Memorial Coliseum. Okay?
 I was born at Emanuel Hospital, which is in North Portland, because my father was a low-income Nabisco employee. Yet we didn't live there. We lived near the airport. There's a lot of racism in Portland, and I side with the fact that the best place to help low-income people is North Portland.
 Nowhere else, because again, you see people on the sidewalk, you see people on the street in tents, and you herd them into the north, northeast area. And since people of color have been oppressed, they might have the sympathy for low-income white people. You don't see it from anybody else. So I like the Memorial Coliseum as a large shelter, since you fail to make anyone anyplace else.
 I agree with Commissioner Hardesty. There is a rule about yelling fire in the theater. I think people like Mr. Davis and Joel Walsh, this isn't a church. You don't say 50 times to make your point across.
 Even though we have freedom of speech, I think Mr. Davis and Joel Wall should be banned from here for a month. Excuse me. Excuse me. No, this is not your call. You are not the presiding. Excuse me. You're going to have to stop. We'll take a read. Ban him for a month. Goodbye. Bye. Bye. Goodbye. You're making your own argument. You're off the subject. Goodbye.
 No I'm not! You just caught me on! I'm up here talking! Senator, it's just a subject. Hey! It goes forever, but even white people do. You're right. He's wrong. Just wait a minute. I'm right! All of your confusion!
 Senator, come back up and finish your comment. Oh, I didn't? Oh, I got 34 seconds left. Oh, really? I might even give you 10 seconds. Just for being a good sport. He was wrong. No. He was wrong. That's correct. This is not a church. I mean, I think our founding fathers didn't want to state religion. I mean. Senator, one moment. We'll be back in session, please. We are now back in session. Thank you.
 A brief interruption. Continue, please, Senator. Thank you. Well, he cut me off. It is the topic here. I was talking here. He cut me off because I mentioned the fact that, you know, I don't know if it relates to it. He cut me off so I couldn't talk, so whatever. Right? So it does relate. So certainly if somebody has a view here that's not popular, you have no right to cut them off. It's like yelling fire in a theater. Right?
 Which the Supreme Court deals with that. Aye. Appreciate your being here. Whatever. Next three, please. Are Maggie, Stephen, I believe the last name is Long, and Mary Seip. I see Mary Stephen. Long, maybe Lang, Stephen Lang on Lincoln. Okay. Southwest Lincoln. Oh. Okay. I'm going to criticize here, and the reason I'm going to do that is because I see –
 elderly people out on the street every day who have Alzheimer's, dementia, are incontinent. I see bipolar people. I see people who have schizophrenia. And you're still going to warehouse them in shelters where there's all this environmental noise. The shelters are like a jail. The
 Bathrooms are broken. The staff are like factory workers. They steal from the homeless disabled people in there. And there are elderly homeless on the street who are incontinent and have Parkinson's. And they've been...
 exited from their housing units and they won't go into shelters because they get bullied and their stuff gets stolen. And none of these affordable housing units are going to take these people. They're cherry picking the people who have the least disability and the most social security income.
 and that's who's going to get in there. And none of these people who've got mental health issues, who've got Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, who are incontinent, there's no supportive housing that's being built for them. You know, they're all warehoused in shelters that have human rights issues with noise,
 industrial noise, entertainment noise. They've got emphysema. They've got asthma. They've got all the mental health. They're sick all the time. There's MRSA, bed bugs, lice.
 There's no laundry facilities in these shelters. There are no laundry facilities that work. I mean, it took me four hours to do one load of laundry because the spinner in the one washer and the one dryer, the spinner doesn't work.
 and the dryer takes two hours to dry one load of laundry, and how many hundreds of people are in that building who have to compete for that one washer and one dryer, and then they have a scheduling. So this affordable housing thing is for people who are able-bodied.
 It's not going to help anybody who's got supportive needs, issues. It's not going to help anyone who's out on the street and living in a tent and refusing to go into a shelter and disabled. Right.
 So, Maggie, let me just stipulate what you said so we can talk about this particular project. This particular project actually includes 10 supportive units. So it is for exactly— I mean, 10 is like a drop in the bucket of an ocean. For those 10 individuals, it means the world. And I take what you're saying as a challenge to scale it up, do more of these kinds of projects, work.
 find the resources to make it happen, and I think we're in agreement on that. When I say supportive housing, I think there are two types of people. When I say that, there are types of people who can't make it through the night and need 24-hour care, and there are those who can make it through the night and need day services every day.
 And you're not housing those people. Well, we actually are. But thank you. Appreciate your testimony. I disagree. I see them on the streets every day. And it's your right to disagree. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Mary Seif.
 As you know, I've been here for the last two years almost every week, and I've often spoken in support of the affordable housing projects. I live in one of the projects, the Sitka. In fact, when I was looking at the pictures of this new project, I was thinking, gee, this looks a lot like the Sitka. I do want to, with all due respect, I do want to kind of correct some things that Maggie was talking about. Shelters are temporary emergency facilities.
 methods. And we can build all the shelters in the world, but if we don't start building the affordable housing that we need to have a place for people to transition into, it's not going to make any difference what we do in terms of the emergency shelter.
 I would encourage people, I've said this before, the term affordable housing is, a lot of people don't really understand what it is. This is a Section 42 tax credit housing, and I'd encourage people to go look this up and understand how this works. It's income restricted. I would also correct some of the things that Maggie said. The building I live in is probably 90% disabled.
 People on Social Security disability, myself on Social Security, a lot of people on SSI, $700 a month, living in units that are clean, comfortable, and affordable in the realm of their income. Okay.
 We need more of this, and I want to applaud the city and the county for what they've been doing for the last two years in really pressing forward with more affordable housing. It is kind of interesting, Mayor Wheeler, when you said, when you commented about the architecturally pleasing design. I think one thing I would like to suggest is,
 Bridge Housing, I'm so excited. When they came to Portland and built the Abigail, when you see what they've done in other cities across the country, it's pretty phenomenal, the work that they've done and how they've made their focus change.
 affordable housing. I would like to suggest that maybe, and perhaps they already do this, that they form sort of an advisory group of people living in affordable housing and get some feedback from them about where there could be some improvements. That's a great idea. Yeah. One of the things that all of the units in our building and in other buildings around, we don't have air conditioning. Right.
 And it's really oppressive sometimes. And if you don't have $600 to go buy a portable air conditioning unit, you're suffering in our now hotter, hotter, hotter summers.
 And I'd suggest, you know, look at putting the portable units in. I also want to give a shout-out to Bridge Housing. I want to thank them. When they were building, before they started building the Abigail, I contacted them, and they voluntarily agreed to scrap their plans to use the impact hammer and use the auger drill. And I hope that they will continue to do the same with other projects.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mary. We appreciate your perspective, as always. Thanks for coming in. Does that complete public testimony, Carla? Yeah, if Stephen Long isn't here, that would be all. Mr. Long, are you here somewhere? Very good. Please call the roll. Fritz. Yes.
 The comment was made, this is a drop in the bucket, and I always think of how do you eat an elephant one bite at a time? And each unit makes a difference to the person who's going to be in it and to the people who will be in it for the next 99 years. So congratulations for this project. It's really great. I. I'm very pleased to support this. A bridge has demonstrated that they're a good community partner. There's a good leverage. That is, the public resources here is leveraging lots of other funds from other sources to allow us to,
 stretch the dollar. And then I don't remember the last time we had a project come before us where the units were so deeply subsidized.
 We should give a special shout-out to Home Forward because these project-based vouchers would not happen without them, but they allow us to keep 40 of the 61 units at below 30 percent of MFI. So we're meeting really where the crushing need is in our community, and I applaud the developer for finding a way to finance this project. Thanks to the Housing Bureau for bringing this forward. Thank you, Mayor. I'm pleased to support it. Aye. Hardest Steve. Aye. Eudaly.
 Well, I'm very pleased to see this project moving forward. It advances two top priorities for the city. One is increasing our affordable housing stock, and two is adopting sustainable building practices that are going to help us meet our climate goals moving forward.
 I also want to thank Bridge City for not sacrificing aesthetics and quality. This is a really good-looking building, like the mayor pointed out. And, in fact, I'd say it's a more attractive building than many of the market and luxury rate.
 buildings going up in that neighborhood. Thank you Mary Wheeler, the Portland Housing Bureau, Barings Multifamily, U.S. Bank, Metro Bridge, Meyer Memorial Trust, Prosper Portland, and Oregon Housing and Community Services for all your work on this, and of course Multnomah County for contributing the site. I vote aye.
 That list, Commissioner Udaly just listed, thank you to everybody on that list. This is truly an exceptional partnership. This is just one more demonstration of what we can get done when we all pull in the same direction. Thank you, Director Callahan, for your leadership. In particular, I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everyone. Next item, Times Certain, 37.
 We're right on schedule. Very good. Accept District Coalition Plan for Fiscal Year 2019-20 Budget for Equitable Distribution of Resources. Commissioner E. Daly. Thank you, Mayor.
 The city funds seven neighborhood coalition offices that serve as one connection point between the city and its residents. Funding inequities between district coalitions have been a longstanding issue, complicated by factors such as the fact that two of our coalition offices are city-run, while the other five are independent nonprofits. The audit of then-office neighborhood...
 Office of Neighborhood Involvement identified this long unaddressed issue as one that needed to be urgently remedied. I'm pleased to introduce today's report to share the steps we've taken and the direction we'll go in the coming years. I would like to call up Sukhree, Director of the Office of Community and Civic Life for a presentation. Welcome Director Ree. Thank you. Good morning everyone. Happy New Year. Happy New Year.
 Again, my name is Sukri, and I serve as director for the Office of Community and Civic Life. And it's an honor to be for myself to present for the first time to Commissioner Hardesty and this new council. Today, you will hear from more than just myself. We have a team that will come after me.
 And our combined presentation is to report on the actions taken in response to the budget note in the fiscal year 18-19 budget, directing the Bureau to work with relevant stakeholders to develop a methodology to equitably distribute existing resources among the neighborhood coalitions without additional funding.
 I will speak to the actions that we took in fiscal year 18-19 and the factors shaping our discussion for fiscal year 19-20. Victor Salinas will share the impact of distributed resources to East Portland Community Office. Adam Lyons and Christina Estime will speak to how district coalition offices are actually working together toward equitable outcomes, which is the focus of our continuing conversations about distribution of resources.
 in fiscal year 19-20 and beyond. And Freda Christopher, a member of the citywide budget advisory committee, will share her reflections on the budget note progress. For my portion, I refer to the slide deck. Maybe I need to go to the other end of the aisle. Is it going to go up? Wonderful.
 It may be surprising to some that this issue has been studied for nearly, repeatedly, for nearly 20 years without resolution. And it was in the audit that Commissioner Udaly mentioned of the Community and Neighborhood Involvement Center for the Bureau in 2016. The auditor wrote that during the fiscal year 2016-17 budget process,
 The office's budget advisory committee developed core values that state that the office would not take money from one coalition or organization to fund another, and so would not attempt to resolve inequities until city council opted to provide more funding for all community engagement programs. The auditor noted that this approach effectively locked disparities into place.
 So then again, during the budget process, we were directed to come up with a plan for implementation to adjust this.
 And although the budget note referred to an implementation timeline of fiscal year 19-20, we heeded the comments of Rita Christopher and others during the budget review process to take steps, even if initial and incremental, to remedy this immediately. In previous years, the funding question had largely been shaped in two ways. The distribution of resources among districts, particularly to East Portland,
 and then as compared to other regions, and then using a per-person measure to gauge funding equity. We will share with you the actions we took this year, 18-19, that resulted in increasing per-person investment in East Portland, and then the factor shaping 19-20 and the change in our focus of consideration.
 In our proposed 18-19 budget, we requested $201,980 in additional ongoing general funds and one-time resources for East Portland. The rationale was to increase the FTE from 2.275, three part-time positions, to 4.0 FTE.
 and for additional programming and for rent. That year, last year, council approved $30,000 in additional ongoing general funds. So the Bureau was committed, however, to increase the FTE to a more appropriate level, and so we redirected $120,865 in our budget to ensure at least 3.7 FTE for East Portland.
 So this included redirecting within our own existing general fund budget $44,388 from the Civic Life budget to East Portland, toward East Portland, and then redirecting $76,477 from the district coalition grants budget.
 again, toward East Portland's favor. And in addition, the Office of Commissioner Udailey was able to provide additional one-time support, $6,861, to all coalition offices to help with this rebalancing. Thank you.
 This slide is a little bit complicated. I'm just going to walk through with you the numbers presented. So in the first column, you see the name of the coalitions that we are talking about. There are seven. Two of them are city staff. Five are community staffed and independent 501c3s. In the second and third columns, you'll see the base funding in fiscal years 17 and 18, and then 18 and 19. Those are columns two and three.
 And then if you skip to column 345, additional one-time funding from Commissioner Udaly's office. And then if you go to column 7, you'll see the percent change. So compared to fiscal year 17 and 18, the rebalancing was equivalent about 0.58%.
 of 1% for all coalitions. So six-tenths of 1% was rebalanced in order to achieve the 3.7 FTE. Then on top of that, each coalition receives additional dollars for neighborhood small grants. And then so you see the total in the second to last column of what the total amount invested in the neighborhood district coalitions. You see also the bottom line is $2.5 million
 as a combined program investment. So the result is that this year, the East Portland Community Office receives $3.12 per person. That's an increase of 52% from fiscal year 17-18 levels, and that is the same rate as Southeast Uplift, and Southeast Uplift is $3.14 per person.
 And then you note that East and South districts serve roughly 157,000 and 162,000 community members, respectively. That's about half the total population of Portland, and their investments represent about 40% of the total district budget, coalition budget.
 For reference, the highest per person rate is $5.48, but for central northeast neighbors, to serve about 53,000 community members. And in terms of the range of disparity in 16, 17, 17, 18, that disparity range was 3 to 1, and we've closed that gap a little bit. Now it's 2 to 1, but it's not quite closed. So in fiscal year 19 and 20...
 So district coalitions and civic life teams began meeting in October and November of 2018 to think about the approach for 19 and 20. While we acknowledge that the steps we took in 2018 were important and necessary first steps, there are limits.
 to using per-person measures to determine equity. We also felt like we needed to ask a more fundamental question. If we don't know what equitable outcomes we seek to deliver, then no methodology for distribution of resources will achieve those ends.
 So thus, we're asking some different questions, some harder questions of ourselves for any dollar that's invested throughout the Bureau. What are the equitable outcomes we want for all Portlanders? And then what would that take? Bureau, community, and citywide equity will not be achieved by one program or one Bureau alone or one effort alone. And then what is the contribution or value that district coalitions can uniquely provide?
 And then how would we invest existing and future resources toward that end? While this turned out to be a 20-year nut to crack, we don't believe it's going to take 20 years to make progress going forward. However, we want to remind Council this is a multi-year iterative discussion. We don't have the answers for you to this question as of right now, but we are starting that conversation in a more deliberate way. For...
 For fiscal year 1920, the district coalition leaders and Civic Life have agreed to do several things. One of the things we're going to do is to maintain district coalition investments at 99% of the fiscal year 18-19 level. We're also going to focus on...
 identifying equitable outcomes within the Bureau's long-term goals and within our mission. We want to start new conversations about developing shared efforts and resources that would allow us to explore new models for our work.
 We also need to develop a shared analysis and consequently a collective and coordinated ability to serve communities that are displaced and migrating between different parts of the city. The reality is that we need to start working across district borders as well as within them and that we are uniquely positioned as a cohort to do this. And to articulate the differences between city and community staff offices which do have a bearing on funding levels.
 Obviously, equity is not achieved through siloed strategies or siloed thinking. The issues of concern transcend district borders, and we need to address them collectively. One area you will hear more about from our panel is in the area of housing affordability and houselessness as an example of what that could look like.
 And I want to conclude with saying that if we only stayed, and we need different measures to gauge progress, if we stayed only with per-person measures and focused only on districts, we would see funding shifting from district to district, and that would largely be reactive and chasing symptoms of displacement and migration.
 And we would not necessarily be funding the district coalition partners to develop the shared advocacy, policy, and system strategies to benefit all Portlanders. So we will, we must start thinking differently about this conversation going forward. And I would like to, with your permission, invite Victor, Adam, Christina, and Frida to the table to present their portion. May I just ask?
 to ask some clarification questions. Thank you for your report. A couple of things I'm just not clear about. Does the East Portland Action Plan money, is that included in the allocation? That is not included. Okay. So that's something to think about. And then could you go back to that table, please? Yes. Oops. There you go. So I'm...
 because it says that the coalitions are getting 2,000, 4,000 cuts. Those numbers in the change add up to 18,000, and yet there's 160,000 increase in East Portland and Westport.
 That's different from the $120,000. So I'm just very confused as to what this table means. Sorry for this is not the clearest presentation. So that includes also the $30,000 from council, the rebalancing, the $76,000 rebalancing. That includes also then the $44,800-some dollars from the Bureau. So the $76,000, how was that?
 divided up amongst the coalitions? So the 76,000, we actually consider several methodologies, including a methodology that was developed by a consultant many years ago, and we chose not to go that way. We chose simply to say what is the proportion of this district coalition's
 budget, within the total budget, and then that will be their percentage of the rebalancing. So, for example, if Southeast Uplift is 20% of the total coalition budget, then they took 20% of that total rebalancing burden, which was 20% of the $77,000. So the 20% of $77,000 is not $4,000. So how much was Southeast Uplift cut? $4,000.
 In the end, the actual change from the base funding also is over here. The actual change from the base funding is in the middle of the column, column six, and that's the actual change that they experienced because there was also one-time additional support from Commissioner Udali's office. I'm confused. Yes.
 Do you, maybe after this presentation, if we can sit with the numbers and with the offices to answer your questions more completely, would that be useful? Yeah, or maybe when the coalition's talk, they can tell us how much they got cut. Yes. Well, these would be the numbers that we actually got translated into the grant agreements. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. You mentioned that there's a difference between city-paid staff that works in the coalition office and folks who are not city staff. Could you talk a little bit more about the impact on whether it's city staff or whether it's community members with the revisions that you made? Sure.
 The impact on community members. The distinction of city staff versus community staff offices that I would like to make there is that we, as a city, have policies that we adhere to. For example, if there's a COLA, whereas for community-based coalitions, we don't tell them if they need to give a COLA or whether a retirement contribution is. So they set their own rules.
 investments for staffing, benefits, et cetera, independently. And so if you look at the actual, if you were to pull their 990s, for example, and look at their staffing rates and their benefits, et cetera, and you compare them with the city, you would see a difference. So we are not saying that the difference means that there are different outcomes. We actually need to explore that further. We do believe, though, that...
 There's a difference in the personnel and benefit cost, that's clear. And we need to acknowledge that because that is part of a dollar
 A dollar to any district coalition should be the best judgment comes from that district coalition's governance body. And for the city, that is city council. For community, that's a different body. And we see that there are different investments being made. Speaker, I just want to say thank you. It's amazing that it's taken 20 years for anybody to attempt to tackle this issue.
 And I'm sure there's been a lot of pushback because, you know, people like status quo for some reason. So thank you for your work on this. I know it was not an easy task. Yes. And the credit goes to City Council, our budget, Citywide Budget Advisory Council as well, as well as our coalition partners who are implementing the results. With your permission, may we invite the others to the table? Yes, please. So we have Victor Salinas.
 Adam Lyons, Victor is from East Portland Community Office. Adam Lyons from Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods. Christina Estima from Southeast Uplift. And Frida Christopher, who serves on our citywide budget advisory committee, as well as many other things. But perhaps you, oh, there's Frida. Hello. Welcome. I snuck in late. Oh.
 I do that sometimes, too. Welcome, everybody, and please state your name before beginning your presentation for the record. Well, good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Morning. Commissioner E. Daly, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish. Happy New Year, and thank you for having us here today. I am here to speak on the outcomes and equity impacts of
 of the redistribution and funding for fiscal year 18-19 within the seven district coalition offices. Here's some context that paints a picture of where the East Portland Community Office, formerly the East Portland Neighborhood Office, had been over the last five years.
 East Portland staff have been responding to increased requests for support from many underserved and underrepresented community groups, mainly communities of identity, people of color, immigrants, refugees, and low-income families, renters. The increased request for staff time and resources was not sustainable at the previous funding level with the limited staffing availability of 2.275 FTEs.
 so we were not able to adequately serve both the neighborhood associations and the community groups we work with. Seeing a need for additional staff support at the EPCO office, East Portlanders advocated for increased funding for EPCO to better meet community needs.
 The increased funding, thanks to Commissioner Udaile, Council, our Bureau Director Sukari, was able to help us better serve the community and better meet Civic Life's goals of supporting healthy, connected, and equitable communities. Here are some examples of how this has impacted our work. Recently, one of our neighborhood associations, the Glenfair Neighborhood Association, had become inactive
 for multiple reasons. And through staff and community efforts and outreach, we were able to help the neighborhood association not only become active again, but is now a multicultural and multilingual neighborhood association, the board, that is, one of the first in our district areas. We've been able to use funding from the...
 accommodations fund to be able to help them through translation, interpretation within their meetings and their organizational needs. One example is the board was reviewing their proposed bylaws, and one of the board members with limited English proficiency was having difficulty participating in the conversation about a proposed amendment. EPCO staff was able to provide support to the board member in their native language to understand the topic.
 As a result, the board was able to bridge the language barrier and adopt their new bylaws. The takeaway from this is that increased financial support helps EPCO recruit highly competent, highly multilingual staff to support our neighborhood associations and our community groups.
 Another example is a recent cooperative work between CNN and EPCO in which a small community group, culturally specific organization, the Somali Women's Coalition of Portland, came to EPCO seeking assistance on an application for Central Northeast Neighborhoods Coalition small grants.
 The project was a series of educational workshops on civic engagement for Somali women, and their community members live both in the EPCO service area and the CNN service area. As you know, our communities don't live by district areas, by geographical areas. You know, we live across neighborhood boundaries. So the community member...
 As I said, the community members live across both areas. This demonstrates that the communities would be served across jurisdictional boundaries and therefore require the collective support of multiple coalition offices.
 Angela Privadelli, our new EPCO grants coordinator, helped review application and provide guidance for the community member. In addition, only the community member was new to grant writing, learned that they would also need a fiscal sponsor to successfully submit their application, which our nonprofit partner, the East Portland Neighbors, was able to provide that fiscal sponsorship.
 As a result, EPCO was able to link the community, like I said, to the East Pearl Neighborhood Office to provide that fiscal sponsorship. The takeaway is in working collectively, this community group was able to apply for a grant from one coalition office while receiving the technical assistance they needed from another coalition office, all in support of their project of civic engagement for Somali women in Portland.
 In closing, the East Portland Community Office greatly appreciates the support for the increased funding in fiscal year 18-19. We want to thank Commissioner Udaly and the rest of Council, our Bureau Director Sukri, and the support from North Portland Neighborhood Services, Northeast Coalition of Neighbors, Southeast Uplift,
 Southleets Uplift, Neighborhood Coalition, Central Northeast Neighbors, Neighbors West Northwest, Southwest Neighbors Incorporated. And we look forward to partnering across the city with other coalition offices to support...
 about equitable outcomes in supporting neighborhood associations and underserved, under-resourced community groups in their community building and civic engagement activities. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Hi, I'm Adam Lyons from Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods. Though district coalitions were established based on geography defined as neighborhoods, we recognize that many of the significant issues we face as a city
 defy the artificial lines drawn over 40 years ago. We understand that the ability to even identify with the neighborhood has increasingly been an entitlement for those who own homes, as rents have skyrocketed and communities have been displaced. As a result, district coalitions have adapted our programming, partnerships, and planning to include constituencies and issues beyond solely the neighborhood system. Over the past several years, district coalitions have worked on many projects around homelessness and affordable housing.
 In 2016, coalitions partnered together to create a community development strategy for neighborhoods to work with the houseless community to identify safe sleep areas in our districts. This plan was what created the alternative shelter specialist position, which now sits in both Civic Life and the Joint Office. This position has been a huge benefit in coordinating rest area.
 and shelter siting as well as communicating information out to the community. Both Southeast Uplift and Northeast, can you guys hear me? I feel like I'm cutting out. Okay. No, you're good. Both Southeast. Could I make one just like six inches is sort of the ideal. These are sort of funky microphones. Okay. How's that? Perfect. Okay. Yeah. Let's get back to it. Yeah. Breathe. Breathe. Breathe. Thank you.
 Both Southeast Uplift and Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods have been involved in welcoming Right to Dream 2 to the east side of the Willamette River. This has been a long process, but with the help of many stakeholders, neighborhood, and houseless advocates, Right to Dream 2 has been successfully located in the Lloyd District. Coalitions have partnered with Central City Concern's Clean Start PDX program to create enhanced services in our inner city neighborhoods.
 Clean Start PDX is a vocational training program that works with folks with lived experience of homelessness who help provide trash and sanitation to pop-up camps and after about 18 months usually get job placement. From a communications perspective, coalitions have been very active regarding houselessness and affordable housing. Much of our online as well as our print and mailed newspapers, which I have one here in case you haven't seen it,
 have been focused on daylighting the humanitarian crisis and trying to explain a very complicated civic challenge. Additionally, we have held many community meetings and town halls to discuss the housing crisis. We've created videos like Five Things to Know About Houselessness and recently created a whimsical map of how affordable housing works featuring an illustrated bunny and an owl.
 Looking to the future, all seven district coalitions remain committed to addressing issues that affect all of our residents. Houselessness and affordable housing are only two of many complex challenges that we face as a growing and changing city. Our coalitions believe that all Portlanders working together can change the narrative and move the dial on many pressing issues. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Adam. My name is Christina Estime, and I'm the operations manager at Southeast Uplift.
 To summarize, the seven district coalitions collectively cover all 95 neighborhoods of Portland. Coalitions have been an important infrastructure for facilitating communication and action between Portlanders and city government. In the nearly 45 years since the district coalition system was formed, Portland has dramatically changed. For example, the population of East Portland has grown, thus the needs of communities have changed.
 Whereas at one time, coalitions might have focused on land use issues, we now serve diverse communities seeking community involvement in different ways and in different languages, as Victor Salinas from East Portland Community Office just described. Whether coalitions are offering technical support to incubate community projects, helping people understand what is happening in their city through collaborative trainings,
 Creating platforms for people to strategize towards creative solutions, such as described by Adam Lyons from NECN, we seek to increase civic engagement and to foster an inclusive and caring community. District coalitions are actively working with Suk-Ri and the Office of Community and Civic Life to identify and define equitable outcomes.
 District coalitions and the Bureau want to ensure that resources are directed in meaningful and impactful ways. Working together, we are adapting the services of district coalitions to be more inclusive and accessible. Participating in city government is a daunting prospect for many community members, and the infrastructure of district coalitions provides a local and less formal interface for grassroots community involvement.
 District coalitions are on the ground working together towards a more connected, inclusive, and accessible Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for allowing me to speak today.
 My name is Frida Christopher. I sit on the Citywide Budget Advisory Commission, East Portland Action Plan, being co-chair of their housing subcommittee as well as a member of civic engagement subcommittee. I'm also chair of the David Douglas School Board. So I have a broad perspective of East Portland. At last year's budget work sessions, I mentioned the equity issue in the coalitions and the audit report that was given.
 I applaud the director's efforts to reallocate the level of funding of limited resources to try to start to address this. I don't believe that this has been going on for over 20 years. It's not going to be solved in one year. I have to agree with the director in that. I also agree with the direction of looking at the outcomes and how coalitions are handled.
 I really respect history, having been on the David Douglas School Board for 28 years. And I often say, what have we done in the past? Not to continue to do it because it's been done in the past and that's the way we do things, but to look at what was successful and what is not. Our city has changed, and so has our neighborhoods. They have evolved tremendously. Thank you.
 And so we need to look at historically, okay, we've done this in the past, but what can we do differently? So I applaud the fact that the civic life is looking at that. I want to share a couple examples of that change. Just yesterday, I was in three different meetings. East David Douglas District has changed dramatically in the last 20 years.
 and we have decided this year our superintendent is doing listening sessions. In the morning, I sat in on a session that was strictly done in Spanish. It's really, it brings to light how our minorities often don't understand what's going on in a meeting when you don't have a translator translating it. In the afternoon, it was a group of Somali parents
 And the same thing, it's funny, it takes a little bit to get them talking, but once they start talking, it's hard to keep up with someone translating for us. And then in the evening, I met with Civic Engagement, which we have Arabic, Russian, Latino members there with translators.
 They are concerned about their ability to be involved in our community and our city. They want to. There are many voters that want to vote, but they can't read the ballot and understand it. So these are things we need to look at. I know voting goes into the county and the state issues handling that. But these were things that were brought up.
 In conclusion, I do appreciate the city taking a look at community engagement and seeing what we can do to change it, especially in the budgeting process. And with the Director Souks and...
 leadership. I know they're going to be looking at how we can change overall how our communities work and our neighborhoods can be involved. I personally, speaking with many of these minority communities, they want to be involved. We just have to learn how involvement in those areas are different because of their backgrounds. Galina from the Russian community made it very apparent.
 You talk to them, you communicate with them, and you get them involved in different ways. And you have to understand that before you can get them involved. But I do appreciate the efforts that are being pushed forward. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your presentation. Thank you all for your presentation. I'd just like to ask the district coalition representatives, how much was Northeast...
 neighbors and how much was Southeast Uplift cut? What was the dollar figure? If I remember correctly, I think it was right around 5K. I'm going to refer to our executive director for the exact figure. Hi, I'm Molly Mayo, executive director at Southeast Uplift. And I believe, to clarify the question,
 The district coalitions usually get around a 3% cost of living adjustment, and that adjustment was not awarded last contract year. That money was earmarked as well, I think, to be reallocated to East Portland. So whereas Southeast Uplift in the 17-18 fiscal year had roughly a contract with City of Portland for $484,000, that's approximate,
 The most recent contract was 480, which is roughly a $4,000 cut. But as I understand historically,
 the expectation would have been that there would have been a 3% cost of living increase. So altogether, that was around $18,500 that Southeast Uplift might have anticipated that we did not receive. So that's the numbers in the table. I then don't understand how we get to $160,000. But my further follow-up question is, what was the impact on your services of that cut? Sure.
 In terms of Southeast Uplift, we do represent a large geographic area, and so proportionately we are considered one of the lesser-funded coalitions. However, because we are actually a larger coalition with six staff and a larger budget, we were able to successfully absorb that $4,000 cut.
 just through economic measures. So I think that cut actually impacted the smaller coalitions much more. And did you give cost of living to your staff? I did not give cost of living adjustments to my staff at the beginning of this fiscal year. No, I did not. Was that colleagues in the past? The impact is on staff pay.
 Right, and they already get paid less than the city-run offices. Yeah. So just from my newer colleagues in the past, we had said that if city employees get cost of living, then our contract employees should be able to as well. Thank you. That clarifies the numbers. Thank you very much. Oh, could I ask one more question before you leave? Thank you. What is the...
 My understanding is Southeast Uplift also has the ability to raise money outside of the money they get from the city. So what is your overall budget? Our overall budget is not much larger than the city grant. The city grant...
 Apparently, again, I'm relatively new to this system, so I've learned as I've gone along. But these district coalitions that are technically 501 C-3 nonprofits literally grew up hand in hand with the city of Portland government.
 They never existed separately as a more traditionally functioning 501c3. So Southeast Uplift does have the ability to engage in fundraising. We do rent some offices in our building and also charge a very small conference room space.
 that maybe contributes maybe $20,000 a year to our budget. But I'm coming from a nonprofit background, and was at first shocked why these 501c3s are not engaged in more fundraising. And the reason, it's a very interdependent relationship with city government. Like Southeast Uplift actually started as a government office. So as we do look to the future, and of course everyone has a,
 on their radar, the fact that nonprofits can and probably should be fundraising, especially as times change. Again, that will be a step-by-step learning process for district coalitions that are nonprofits if we go in that direction. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions? Yes.
 May I move the report? Commissioner Fritz has one question first. Oh, we're not taking testimony. It's a report. Excuse me. Sure. You can carry on. Thank you. I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. We have a second from Commissioner Hardesty. That's funny to us for just our own personal reasons. Please call the roll. Fish.
 Thank you, Director, for an excellent presentation. Thanks to our honored guests. Frida, you go to a lot of meetings. Yeah. We may have to do an intervention. I do think at some point we should pull out the – we should look more holistically at all the different ways we support neighborhoods, and I think it's a fair point to include. Thank you. Sure.
 East Portland Action Plan and the budget for that because that was one of our earlier efforts to try to do some equity and some equalization. And I think, Frida, you have been a great voice in support of what we've accomplished through the East Portland Action Plan. But it's taken 20 years for us to get to this point. This report gives us a roadmap of some of the decisions that we're going to be making through our budget process and through policymaking.
 Commissioner Udeli, thank you for bringing this forward and I'm pleased to vote aye. Hardesty. I also think this is excellent work and it's long, long overdue. I was very happy to hear that E-PAP would not be impacted by the changes that had taken place. I do want to put on the record that I absolutely think that our value of if city employees get raises, then our contract employees should also be receiving those cost of living increases.
 Very good work. I know this is only the beginning, and I look forward to working with SUCC and the neighborhood officers to realize our new vision of what neighborhood engagement and involvement looks like. Thank you. I vote aye.
 Thank you everyone for being here today and for participating. I do agree with some of the concerns raised by my colleagues but I think that
 The COLA issue, the impact to staff, is more of an argument for the city needing to increase funding for these programs and perhaps for the neighborhood offices to do a little fundraising of their own. It is not an argument against making...
 a more equitable distribution of existing funds. And I'd also like to say that EPAP and EPNO, although they both begin with EP, and Serve East Portland are two very distinct organizations and that...
 I'm willing to concede that perhaps EPAP should be calculated in this larger equation of how equitably we're serving East Portland, but I am not willing to decrease their budgets.
 And I'll just leave it at that because it's a complicated undertaking. But they are distinct. They serve different purposes. And EPAP has been working with the same budget for the last decade. EPNO could not...
 offer comparable kind of supports and services to East Portland without an increase. So there's that. Today's report makes it clear that there's no one formula or approach that gets us to equity.
 However, I'm confident that we're asking the right questions and appreciate everyone's willingness to consider a new way of doing business. There are two truths I want to highlight. Change is hard even when we want it. I've started saying one of my catchphrases is everyone wants change, but nobody wants to change.
 And that might be an explanation for why it's taken us 20 years to get here. I want to be sure to acknowledge and share my appreciation for every district coalition office and for the hardworking staff for stepping up to take...
 to make this important move forward towards one of our shared goals, which is ensuring equitable access and allocation of services for East Portland. And two, we will never get to better outcomes if we don't define what they are. So I appreciate that we're moving past the per person measure, which we all know does not get us to equity when we have one population that has been historically underserved and underrepresented for decades and decades,
 relative to the others. And we need to start thinking more systematically about ways to improve our services and reach our goals of true equity for all Portlanders. Finally, a few thank yous and a welcome. I want to welcome Shook, not Sook, just to be clear. Shook.
 Arif Dijonaf, our Civic Engagement Coordinator who will be working with the coalition offices to the city and congratulate him on organizing his first council presentation. So welcome and thank you to Shuk. Nicely done. Welcome. I also want to give special thanks to Diane Riley and Director Sukri for helping us tackle these big issues. Your leadership and vision are appreciated and clearly reflected in the steps we've taken already to get
 better outcomes for all Portlanders. I vote aye. Wheeler. Well, I suspected this was not going to be an easy conversation. Based on the conversation the city council had during the budget session last year and taking note of the fact that this had been discussed by several previous councils and then they overtly chose not to take action.
 And so that is a signal to us that there were no easy solutions here. And, of course, when we're talking about equity, that means sometimes making room for others to step up. And in some very specific cases, it also required some of our coalition partners to willingly take a reduction in resources. I want to thank you for how you did this. I want to thank you for how you handled it. I don't think there was ever a perfect approach.
 But I can't think of a better approach than this right now in terms of actually living up to the equity goals that we stated during the budget process last year. Commissioner Udaly, I want to thank you. What was somewhat overlooked in this report was the fact that you helped fill the gap with your own office budget. And I want to acknowledge that. You contributed one-time only resources to help limit costs.
 the reductions in some of our coalition partners' budgets, and I think that spoke to your personal commitment to making sure that this was done right. And I want to thank all of our coalition partners. You're obviously not in it for the money, but the services you provide are so critically important to the community, and I just want to take this opportunity since you're here to thank you. So obviously, I vote aye, the report's accepted. Thank you. Thank you.
 Colleagues, I'd like to, we're going to take up items 40 and 41 next, but I understand there's a number of amendments, so I'd like to take a five-minute break so I can make sure I understand all the amendments that are coming forward and how to sequence them. We'll take a five-minute recess. Why don't we go ahead and get started, please? We are now back in session. Carla, the next items are items 40 and 41. Could you please read them together?
 Item 40, Authorized Bureau of Human Resources to adopt system for merit-based pay increases for non-represented city employees.
 And direct the Bureau of Human Resources to develop a recommended system for setting compensation when making hiring decisions for council consideration. And item 41, increase the salary ranges for several Portland City labor classifications.
 Colleagues, just some brief introductory comments. We all value the employees of the City of Portland. We want to ensure employees who are doing comparable work receive equitable pay. Adopting and implementing a citywide merit increase system is critical to establishing consistent practices throughout the City of Portland.
 Utilizing a consistent system will permit us to consider merit as one of the bona fide factors in setting compensation under the new Oregon Pay Equity Law.
 This resolution and the following ordinance, item 41, which I'll discuss in a moment, helps to ensure the city remains in compliance with the amendments to the Oregon Pay Equity Act. And with regard to item number 41, which increases the salary ranges for several of Portland City laborer classifications, again, the stated value here is that the city of Portland is committed to pay equity. The Portland City laborers has...
 approximately 370 employees classified within 28 different classifications that are doing similar work to employees covered by the DCTU, otherwise the District Council of Trade Union.
 employees in those 28 classifications are paid differently based on prior collective bargaining agreements. The ordinance, item number 41, changes the salary rates of the PCL classifications to create parity with the DCTU classifications. The reason I was out of the room a moment ago is there are a number of amendments to this, and I'd like to put the amendments on the table first if necessary.
 My colleagues have no objections to that. Sure. With that, then, Commissioner Fritz, why don't we put your amendments, your amendment on the table first, please. Thank you, Mayor. This was distributed yesterday in the Tuesday memo. There is one slight change in the...
 proposed amendments because it's been brought to my attention by the Mayor that the word temporary has a specific legal meaning in the City of Portland and I was not intending to make it a particular timeline. I know the Bureau of Human Resources has a pile up going. So under the now therefore be it resolved the Bureau of Human Resources is directed to adopt for up to one year administrative rule merit system
 for merit-based pay and the rest of it is the same. And then add, be it further resolved that after a standard HR administrative rule comment period and prior to expiration of the temporary administrative rule, the Bureau of Human Resources will return to Council for final approval of a system for merit-based pay increases for non-represented employees. And then strike, be it further resolved that once adopted, the merit system will be binding city policy because we're not doing that just yet. We can do that next time.
 I second that. So that is now on the table. Commissioner Udaly, I understand you have an amendment as well? Yes, I have four amendments. And before I read them, I'll just want to thank...
 Director Summers-McGee and HR, there you are, scanning the whole office, and city attorney's office for their swift action on this issue. Pay equity is obviously something that we all care about deeply and believe in. We had to take, we had to act fast to avoid some very undesirable outcomes, but in doing that,
 I didn't have quite enough time to really dig into the issues, and so I'm offering these amendments today as a result. I have some concerns with merit-based pay. One is that it is subjective. Even though I think HR has come up with a great tool, it does still—
 It is still a subjective measure. It could eventually lead us back to pay inequity, and it's hard to budget for. And I'm just really concerned about the immediate impact to our budget and moving forward, what continuing to give merit-based pay on top of COLA might mean for some of the bureaus. So these are my amendments. Amendment number one.
 And I need to read all the language, is that correct? Well, we have a pack in front of us. Okay. She needs to know. Okay, so I'll read them.
 Amend the third whereas to read, whereas a system for merit-based or step-based pay increases for nonrepresented employees is necessary to ensure pay equity and compliance with legal requirements. So this simply adds step-based pay increases as a system that we would consider as an alternative to merit-based.
 Amendment number two, add a directive to read, be it further resolved that the Bureau of Human Resources will return to council within 180 days to report on key advantages and disadvantages of a merit-based system and a step-based system in order to give council the opportunity to decide between the two. And I believe Commissioner Fish has a suggested amendment to number two. Why don't you put all four on and then I'll offer a friendly amendment to you daily too. Okay.
 Amendment number three, newly amended second directive to read, be it further resolved that after a standard HR administrative rule comment period and prior to expiration of the temporary administrative rule, the Bureau of Human Resources will return to Council with a recommendation for final approval.
 approval of a system for merit-based or step-based pay increases for non-represented employees. And finally, Amendment No. 4, amend the third directive to read, be it further resolved, the chief human resources officer shall be responsible for review and update of this policy, as well as the development and implementation of any guidelines and procedures consistent with the merit system or step-based system to meet the needs and requirements of the city.
 So, Commissioner Daly, on your amendment number two, by the way, okay, this is the way to do it. My concern is that when we start talking, and I support the thrust of all these amendments, when we start talking about whether we go to a merit-based system or a step-based system,
 I think we get into areas of human resources and even labor relations that get fairly sensitive. We have represented nonrepresented employees. There are questions councils want to have. Rather than require that within 180 days this come back to council for a public hearing on pros and cons,
 I would ask you to consider a friendly amendment that said within 180 days, council offices will be briefed on this. And if you believe that some kind of collective action is warranted, I would suggest we do it in executive session the way we do other HR issues of this magnitude. Because I think we have to collectively have this conversation first with legal guidance and HR guidance. And we don't typically do that in this forum as a first cut.
 So my friendly amendment would be, and this would not preclude you to put this on the agenda and bring it back to council, but within 180 days, each office be briefed on HR's view of strengths and weaknesses and or an executive session be scheduled for the purpose of briefing council. I'm fine with that.
 Very good. Can we move these as a package? Commissioner Fritz. I just have a question for the Chief Human Resources Officer. Do you have the capacity to be able to do this? In 180 days, I do. Thank you. Unless there's any objection, can we move this as a package? Second. Very good. That's on the table. And then I have an amendment as well. I should have that.
 All the cool kids do. We coordinated with Commissioner Hardesty's office on these four amendments. We could call on you daily in the Hardesty amendments if you'd like. So my amendment language to item 40 is,
 is down at the be it further resolved. It says, be it further resolved, the city budget office is directed to increase General Fund Bureau current appropriation levels for fiscal year 2019-20 to reflect increased costs associated with the pay equity study completed in December of 2018. Second.
 We have a motion and a second. Just to clarify, this reflects the desire of the council during the work session to account for the increased salary requirement and its impact on the budget to account for it now rather than waiting until later in the budget process. Very good. That is also on the table. Welcome. Thank you for being here.
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. Tracy Reeve, Portland City Attorney. And we are here. I'm with Director Summers-McGee, Chief Human Resources Officer. We're back before you. Pursuant to your direction at last Tuesday's work session that we bring forward...
 a resolution that would permit the city to begin providing employees who are up for nonrepresented employees who are up for reviews, uh, merit increases on their normal anniversary dates. And, um, and with the amendments, uh, this would also permit, uh, the Bureau of Human Resources to evaluate, um,
 while that temporary merit system or pilot merit system was in place, whether a step system might better meet the city's policy objectives. From a legal perspective, either a merit system substantially in the format a
 attached to the resolution or a step system could meet the legal requirements and could be used as bona fide factor for compensation. So we're comfortable with the amendments meeting the legal requirements of the Pay Equity Act as well. And with that, I'll turn it over to Director Summers-McGee to talk about the pilot.
 program. Mayor, Commissioners, thank you so much for allowing us to come before you in a rapid period of time. I think we had the session with you last week, and this week it's on the agenda. We had to pull a few strings to make that happen, and we're very grateful that you allowed it to take place. This new temporary merit system as City Attorney Reeves
 will allow us to use merit as a bona fide factor in differentiating pay. In the interim, we will conduct the research that Commissioner Udaly put before us as an amendment to provide to you all in separate sessions and perhaps in an executive labor relations-oriented environment the pros and the cons associated with each of the options and the financial implications also associated with those. So we are...
 fully in support of the amendments and are prepared to allow the city to process their merit increases And being compliant with the law any questions for Tracy or I?
 I just want to thank you again for your work on this. The state put us in this position of having to move really quickly, and you are a much better expert on these issues than I am. I just want to make sure that I've done my due diligence and that my bureaus can handle the impact moving forward, regardless of what system we go with. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Thank you. Is there a public testimony on either the resolution or the ordinance? Or the amendments. Or the amendments, correct. Yes, we have two people signed up. Maggie and Veronica Bernier. Okay. She's on the right. She can go. You first. Okay.
 Good morning, Veronica. Why don't you start? Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. It's so good to see you. You're always looking well. Thank you. My goodness gracious, you've got a nice tan, too. A little color in your cheeks, which is good. It's hard to do that in the bleak at midwinter. Boy.
 But it's not that bleak out here. Winter is what you make it. But I wanted to testify as a nurse, a former MICU nurse, belonging to the local 250 for over 30 years, that I really sincerely do believe in merit pay increases depending on your ability.
 and the amount of effort you put into your job. We always want to remember the employees, city, state, and even on up to the president, who go the extra mile, if they can afford it, to make the way easy, especially for the older Americans and the little childrens.
 And also in marketplace in America where I think women always go the extra mile. People like Amanda Fritz, she will notice a situation and jump right into it. And as a former nurse, we always support our local nurse friends. But all you people are a good character. Chloe, I love your name. If I could just remember how to pronounce your name.
 your last name, but it is you, Dolly, right? You Daily. You Daily. I'll get it straight. No problem. And Joanne Hardesty, we got to know you, and we know a little bit more about your thinking, although I'm a newcomer to it. I haven't been around these circles that long within the realm of the...
 of the labor industries. I did belong to Local 250 for over 30 years. And, of course, Commissioner Fish is always supportive. I remember him in Sacramento, the Board of Engineers and all that. And did you know that Nick is a good singer? Yes.
 To sing it yourself, Asai, he brought in 250 singers. So anybody who can do that has my vote. Learn something every day. That's right. Learn something every day. You have been holding out on me, Commissioner. I want to see karaoke. Thank you, Veronica. I noticed last time.
 I noticed last time she was here that you didn't comment on the fact that she was concerned that there were some empty houses that could have been fixed up, that low-income or homeless people could have been put in. But you made a comment about flowers being able to cheer people up. So, you know, she brought up a serious issue and you totally blew it off.
 So anyway, thanks for that, Ted. So what I want to talk about is this merit pay and this idea of women going the extra mile. Okay, so there was this man who has Parkinson's and is in a walker, and he is in Director's Park where the public bathroom is blocked, and he urinates. He ends up on himself. He ends up in...
 The library, the librarians there, they call the quote-unquote social worker a white male who is not educated or trained in social work, nor is he a licensed social worker. And he hands the phone and the street roots book to this man who's shaking. He's got paranoia. He has a walker. He's homeless. He's homeless.
 He won't go into the shelters because he gets bullied and his stuff gets taken. He was exited from the Collins apartment with a bunch of other people October 18th, 2016. And he's complaining about his pay to me. And, uh...
 The first responders won't come and take this guy. 2-1-1, forget it. So I end up taking him down to TPI where I have to threaten them that I'm going to call the mayor before they will give this guy who is wet all over himself a shower.
 I have to take him over to Aging and Disability where they reinstate his food stamps because he doesn't realize he has to come in every year to get them reinstated. He's tried to apply for retirement. He doesn't understand that he's disabled and he needs to apply for a disability. So he has zero income. He's out on the street.
 He's got Parkinson's. He's got diminished capacity. He's incontinent, and he's out in the freezing cold with no sleeping bag. And, you know, so I tried to help him get to Northwest Pilot, and he didn't show up. But at least he's got his food stamps now. Before that, he was eating from the food carts and out of the garbage. Thanks, Ted. Thanks, Ted.
 So, Ted, when you say you disagree with me about disabled people being put out on the street. I don't disagree with that. Yes, yes, you did. Please do not put words in my mouth, Maggie. You're wrong. Seriously. You're wrong. And you know I reported this to your office because your staff time stamped it. Thank you, Maggie. Your time has expired. Your time has expired. Your time has expired. Thank you.
 We'll take a recess. We're back in session. Mayor, should we take the amendments in order? We're going to take the amendments in order. We're going to start with Commissioner Fritz's amendments first. Unless there's any other questions, Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you to the Director of the Bureau of Human Resources, the City Attorney, the City Budget Office, who have all worked really hard to get this matter taken care of. I appreciate your...
 accepting my amendments to allow comments from the bureaus. We want to make sure that this works for the bureaus and that we take input from all the bureaus into what the merit system should look like. And I particularly want the Office of Equity and Human Rights to weigh in on that.
 Clearly, even a points-based merit system can become biased and then lead to inequities. And yet, I believe that we need to have incentives and rewards for people who do meritorious work. And I believe we can budget for that and that we should continue to encourage our employees to stay with us and to do the very best work for the public that they can. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The Fritz amendment is adopted. We'll take the Udaly amendment next, please. This is the Udaly package as amended. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The Udaly package is adopted. Last, the Wheeler amendment. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fritz.
 Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I think this makes a lot of sense. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. E. Daly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Now we'll vote on the resolution as amended. Please call the roll. Item 40.
 Fritz? Because of the state mandate, for better or worse, bureaus are losing most of their historic discretion in personnel matters from setting starting salaries based on market demands and real-world realities for new hires to setting their own merit increase system. I worry that we need to be able to continue to hire and reward superstars. I am concerned that this will set back our efforts to diversify our workforce and meet our equity goals.
 However, this is what is required by Oregon's new pay equity law, and I support this resolution. I think we have to be very careful that we don't get to the realm of animal farm where all animals are equal and that there is no incentive for continued garnering and encouragement of the best employees. I. Fish. Thanks to the Bureau of Human Resources and the City Attorney's Office, among others, for the work in...
 bringing all this work product forward, this is very complicated stuff, and I'm still recovering from some of the testimony and the hearing last week about the fact that, notwithstanding the issuance of regulations in November of last year, we still may be on the hook for a two-year window looking back, even though there was no clear guidance, which is extraordinary. I hope we don't end up being punished for doing the right thing.
 because we are probably one of the few cities that is actually implementing this in a timely manner. And I appreciate the work of all the professionals who brought this forward. I think the amendments are sound, and I'm pleased to support them. And on the resolution, I vote aye. Hardesty? Hardesty.
 I think that the amendments make this resolution stronger, and so I appreciate Commissioner Udalli, Commissioner Fritz, and Mayor Wheeler in enhancing this resolution. I appreciate the work that the Human Resources Department has been involved in. It must be crazy making.
 but I look forward to us having our next conversation about really what is the most equitable way to make sure that we are rewarding excellence in our employees and we're not disincentivizing people to want to have a career at the City of Portland. I vote aye.
 For the third time, I will thank Director Summers-McGee and HR for their swift and diligent work on this matter. It is a complex topic. I have no doubt we can arrive at a solution that works for everyone. And I appreciate your receiving my amendments in the spirit in which they're intended.
 Wheeler. Well, I'll just lean on my introductory comments, and I want to respond just briefly to some comments that Meg made. Meg, while I don't always believe the way you approach these issues are particularly civil or respectful,
 I want to appreciate the content of what you said. I want to add one more organization to the list that you could refer people to. I had the opportunity last night to go out with a crew from JOIN. I had the opportunity to help hand out sleeping bags, hats, and gloves to people who are living on the street. There's no question in my mind.
 that people living on the street deserve a compassionate approach to help them get off the street and whatever resources or services they need to stay off the street. So I just want to say I don't think you know me particularly well, but I appreciate the larger message that you are trying to get across. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Next up is the ordinance, item number 41. Please call the roll. Please. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everyone. Next up, item 42. Authorize the first amendment to the 2013 amended and restated visitor facilities intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County and Metro. Good morning, Susan. It's good to see you.
 Mr. Mayor, Mr. Neres, what you have in front of you is a pretty simple, limited amendment to the existing 2013 Visitor Facilities Intergovernmental Agreement.
 The amendment will authorize a one-time $2 million payment to the Portland Five Centers for the Arts. That amendment is allowing them to secure $3 million in private contributions to replace the obsolete acoustical shell system at Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall.
 The replacement of the shell will not only benefit the Symphony, but it will benefit every single user in the venue. It will also potentially allow more use of the venue because the time needed to switch out the existing physical shell will not be needed since the new shell will be an electronic system.
 You may recall that in December I was in front of you with a more comprehensive restatement of the existing IGA. Those negotiations have not come to completion, and the mayor, Commissioner Caffori, and then-Metro President Hughes agreed that we would move forward with this limited amendment agreement
 so that we did not lose the opportunity to secure the $3 million private contribution. You may have noticed in the ordinance that it does say that the letter of agreement signed by the mayor, the chair, and President Hughes committed to completing this by May 17th, so you might be wondering why I'm here quite so early. I would point out, one, there's no emergency clause on this, so it will be 37 days before the mayor is actually authorized to sign it.
 Multnomah County may need to amend their code in order to make this happen, so we're trying to make sure that there's sufficient time for that to happen. Thus, the reason I'm here so early in the year. And if there's any questions, happy to answer them. Commissioner Fish? So, Susan, when I had the honor of being the arts commissioner a couple years ago, the Oregon Symphony approached us and said they had secured the donor.
 the $3 million of funding and was looking for a contribution from the city. So I think while it's not reflected in the documents before us, and because P5 is actually the landlord, I think we should acknowledge that the Oregon Symphony that is the current occupant that, among others, recognize that the sound system is inadequate and it has outlived its usefulness.
 Everyone will benefit that participates in programs at the schnitz, but I believe it was the symphony that secured the private donor who may be anonymous. Yeah, that's absolutely correct. And so I think we should do a shout-out to Mr. – is it Showater? Yes.
 Scott Showalter. Scott Showalter and the Oregon Symphony. This is a good leverage, and this is one of those rare instances where we get to put a little bit of public money and we get a little more private money together to maintain a facility that our funds were designed to help maintain anyway. And maintaining a...
 a reasonable acoustic system is basic infrastructure at the schnitz so thank you for your good work on this i would also point out that um this the council did approve a five hundred thousand dollar contribution from the spectator venue uh budget for this fiscal year that is also a one-time contribution from city funds to that project so we are making a direct contribution as well as
 of the $2 million coming out of the transient lodging tax through the IGA.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for all your good work on this and many other things. I appreciate it. So the city, for our assets, has a prioritized list of what's the most critical, likely to fail, cost of failure, consequence of failure. Do the visitor facilities, infrastructure buildings have a similar list? No.
 I know Metro has launched an asset management program, and they are working right now to improve their asset management knowledge about all of Metro's venues, both ones that they own as well as ones that they operate on behalf of the city, which would be the Portland Five venues. I would say they're working.
 somewhat ahead of the city overall in their asset management understanding and data that they have. They have a pretty good handle on the OCC, the Expo Center. Portland 5 is really more of a collaboration between the city and Metro, and we've been working on that for probably the last 18 months now.
 You may remember we've done a facility condition assessment and an ADA evaluation at those buildings. So we're working to put together more information about that. So is this shell the number one priority for all of the things that we need to fund? It's very high. It is actually physically dangerous. Portland Five had to put some money into it this last fiscal year just to keep it safe.
 It is a structure that sits on stage over the symphony and it needs to be replaced at this point. It is well past its usable lifespan. There are certainly at other spectator venues that the city owns perhaps more pressing needs. You're certainly aware of the Veterans Memorial Coliseum's needs.
 But given that the shell is an essential part of any symphony performance and physically is a danger at this point, it rose to the top of the list. And as Commissioner Fish pointed out, there was a limited time for achieving that private contribution. Thank you. Mm-hmm.
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. You mentioned that this visitor facilities fund, we're still in the process of negotiating for houseless services as part of updating the IGA.
 And I thought that there were at least three or four facilities that were going to have some repairs done in addition to additional resources for houseless services. I guess I'm really concerned that if we start taking them out one at a time, we will never get to the housing service component of this IGA update. And so where are we on that? You said it hasn't worked yet, but where are we on that? Okay.
 So we are not currently at the table. The mayor's office and his staff are in conversation with the chair's office.
 to figure out when and how to restart those discussions. I don't disagree with you at all that taking this piecemeal is probably not the best way to approach it, and many of the needs that we were attempting to address in the larger conversation are far greater than what we're talking about here.
 In the previous discussions, it was a $40 million contribution to the VMC, $40 million for additional P5 needs. There was money in there for Expo as well as the homelessness services. We need to get back to the table to talk about those.
 again, the $2 million is what allows us to gain that $3 million. So I think the Mayor, the Chair, and President Hughes really felt the timing on that was urgent enough that we should move it forward while we continue to figure out how the larger conversation goes forward. So I have some more recent information that I haven't had a chance to share with Susan. So Chair Kofori and I met yesterday. Okay.
 And while there's no guarantees, I think we are all committed to getting to yes on an agreement that puts forward those resources for services related to our permanent supportive housing and chronic homeless service continuum.
 What we agreed to yesterday was to get the staff back in the room to agree on a baseline of where the agreement is. In other words, we're going to unpeel – there were several drafts of potential agreements, and we're going to start unpeeling those drafts until we get to the baseline of where we agree that we are in the conversation and then start having conversations sequentially in the same room, hearing the same information about what amendments, if any, we need to make to that agreement. Okay.
 So both the chair and I are approaching this with a sense of commitment and a sense of urgency. And the new president of Metro, Lynn Peterson, is interested in having her staff engaged in this as well, although I've not had a conversation with her subsequent to my conversation with the chair yesterday. So it is back into the discussion phase.
 I'm not going to make any promises or guarantees except to say I think it is very, very important that we get to yes on this and that we resolve any disagreements that the county may have with the current proposal as it exists. A lot of their concerns relate.
 to limiting liability and risk, and I believe we can overcome all of those obstacles. That's my personal perspective. Mayor. Commissioner, you can answer. Since we've gone a little off track, but the issue has been raised, I'd like to make some comments as well. First, I think it's helpful to the public to understand that the money that we're talking about is a transient lodging tax. It's a 11.5 tax collected on hotel rooms.
 And 6% of it goes to the city, which is shared between the general fund and Travel Portland. The remaining 5.5 goes to Multnomah County. And let's see. That doesn't add up, does it?
 Well, we got this right off the website. So it's divided roughly equally between the city and the county, and it has traditionally been spent on things that we directly relate to the tourism industry, such as improvements to our spectator venues, which the city actually owns and is obligated to maintain and make improvements to in our benefit to the city. I...
 Commissioner Hardesty's concern that we were able to move forward on something that feels less urgent, although if it is a serious safety risk to members of her symphony, I'd consider that an urgent matter. But I want to say
 state on the record that homelessness is absolutely related to tourism and that this is a legitimate use of these dollars. Tourism is a driver of gentrification, displacement, and unaffordability. There is a 94% correlation, or I should say there is an overwhelming correlation between unaffordability and homelessness.
 And tourism has a major role to play in that.
 We hear from the tourism industry and businesses who depend on tourist dollars, the impact that our homeless crisis is having on them. And while as a business owner I can certainly understand their concerns and sympathize to a certain degree, we need them to recognize that they are part of the problem and that we need to devote dollars to mitigating the impact of tourism on our housing and homeless communities.
 Mayor, can I make a comment? Commissioner Fish. Since my office has also been deeply involved in these negotiations, I want to say thank
 that there is no disagreement between the county and the city as to the propriety of using essentially the sales tax that we collect on tourism. That's what this is. We don't have a sales tax, but we have a mechanism for collecting taxes on tourism, on the 16 million people that come through our community because we are active.
 hot destination and the question is should we use a small portion of that to fund the service side of permanent supportive housing as the mayor said. There is no disagreement between the county and the city as to the utility of using those funds. In my own opinion, we had this deal done if we asked some of the lawyers and accountants and other people to step outside after they've made their presentations.
 because I think there are too many cooks in the kitchen. And at some point, you can do risk assessments upon risk assessments, and after a while, you get paralyzed. So my only plea to my colleagues is we have a generous private donor willing to help us meet the condition of one of our flagship. We should not hold this hostage to the fact that we had hoped we'd have a deal months ago.
 Let's find the areas of agreement. Let's support the mayor and his negotiations. I have huge confidence given how strongly Multnomah County Chair Khafouri supports both the supportive housing agenda and how diligently she's been looking for funding sources.
 Then we'll get to a deal. But let's not hold up this opportunity to leverage private money. I certainly did not mean to suggest that the city and county aren't in agreement on how these dollars are spent, although I think there is question in the larger community. And so I wanted to lay out my justification. And I also absolutely don't want to hold this item hostage. It needs to happen. And there's a benefit to the public. So...
 Yeah, it's a fair question because, you know, I get asked it too. People are like, with all the things going on in the community, why are you investing in the shell in a performance center? And so I just want to remind the public at this juncture that the fund we are talking about is –
 essentially a trust fund established for the purpose of investing in travel and tourism assets and operations. It cannot be used for other general fund purposes. And there is a committee that prioritized this project based on the criteria that Susan mentioned, both the safety risk.
 the importance of the shell to the performance center, as well as the fact that there's a private sector donor that provides significant leverage to this as well. So it's not as broad as people would like to think in terms of how we can use those resources. Very good. Does that conclude your testimony? Yeah. Any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have two people signed up.
 Maggie and Shedrick J. Wilkins. Mayor, we may actually lose a quorum in a little while. We still have four matters, at least five matters left. Could we enforce the rules? Yeah, let's reduce testimony to two minutes, please. And again, testimony must be germane to the subject at hand. Okay, it doesn't matter how many dollars you allot to housing, homeless, social services, if...
 the people that you put in place are not connected to the agencies that can help them. The quote-unquote social worker who has no education or training in social work and cannot connect this man at the library to any social agencies and will not because he's complaining about his pay, that it's above his pay grade. Uh...
 And then you have where I'm at Salvation Army. I went to my quote-unquote housing advocate. She knows nothing about... Maggie, are you trying to do this? Are you intentionally doing this? I'm talking about this... You heard Commissioner Fish's frustration. He has left the room. I'm talking about... I need you to focus on this issue. Right. You're talking about dollars for housing and homeless services. You're talking about an ordinance that would allocate $2 million of the...
 visitors development fund for the purpose of investing in a shell at one of our performance centers that is what we are discussing okay but if you don't have the workers that can connect people to these services that have the training and ability
 you're giving money to Salvation Army. Their housing advocate has no connection to any housing agencies whatsoever. So I'm just saying there's – Maggie, when you come in here and you do this, you are taking time from other people. We've already had to shorten the amount of testimony. There's nobody here. There are four more items, and there are people sitting behind you who have been listening to you. There are three chairs. There's an empty chair. We'd like to have an opportunity to speak.
 They're not interested in this particular issue. You know, you've already cut me down by a third. No, I just need you to focus on the issue at hand. This is the third time you've testified today. The social worker at the library is a county matter. We don't have anything to do with that, by the way. Thank you. I agree. The audio system of a building should be funded because a large building like this. Cedric, your mic is off.
 Shedrick, your mic is off. Turn your mic off. This makes my point. Help them poke the button there on the center console. Thank you. Which one? Yeah, this makes my point that in a large building like the Arlene Stencher Consular Hall,
 People in the outer part of the camp can't hear the full performance of the sound or the Memorial Coliseum. Dr. Short, I'd say fund us. Thank you. Any further discussion on this item? There being none, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 43. 43.
 authorize a collection agreement with the U.S. Forest Service in the amount of $283,985 to fund the design and construction of a fish habitat restoration project on the Zigzag River for the Bull Run Water Supply Habitat Conservation Plan. Welcome. Thank you for being here.
 Good morning. I'm sorry. I apologize. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mr. Fritz. I'm sorry. Thank you, Commissioner. That's all right. This council action is a partnership between the city's Water Bureau and the U.S. Forest Service to improve habitats for salmon and steelhead fish in the Zigzag River. It's a part of the Bull Run Habitat Conservation Plan, which seeks to mitigate the impact that the Bull Run water drinking system has on wildlife habitat and was approved by council in 2008.
 The U.S. Forest Service has a team of staff with expertise on restoring wildlife habitats. The city will provide funding, and the U.S. Forest Service will design and construct the restoration project. And now I'll turn it over to Director Mike Storr, who will introduce his team and tell you a bit more. Good morning, Commissioners. Commissioner Hardesty, welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Mike Stewart. I'm the director of the Portland Water Bureau. I wish I had kept track of all the times I had come here. Many times.
 What we're here to talk about today, I'm joined on my left by Steve Kouchis, a fisheries biologist and the manager of our environmental program. And on my right, Burke Strobel, who's an environmental compliance specialist, both from our resource protection division, whose main mission in life is protecting our watershed area.
 We're here to talk today about a project in the Bull Run Water Supply Habitat Conservation Plan. This is a plan that was approved in 2009. In the total 50-year span of the project, it spends about $93 million to improve habitat in the Bull Run and the Sandy River watershed.
 We are in our 10th year of this program. The larger projects in the program were sort of front loaded. They should be done in 15 years, and as I said, we're in the 10th year of that. This ordinance describes the approach for completing another large HCP project, and I'm going to let Steve Kuches and Burke explain what that project is. Thanks. Good morning. Steve Kuches, the Environmental Compliance Manager of the Water Bureau.
 So the ordinance you have in front of you is just literally authorizing us to enter into a contract or a collection agreement with the Forest Service to design, permit, and build a fish restoration project on the Zigzag River, which is in the upper Sandy River Basin. There's considerable time savings and money savings for working with the Forest Service on this project.
 This project is located on federal property, and with this collection agreement, we don't have to create a separate landowner agreement because it's obviously the federal government. That usually saves us over a year in staff planning and time just to create that kind of a document. The Forest Service is very well equipped to do this type of project for us. They've been doing these types of restoration projects for over 10 years,
 They can take our specifications and our conditions and actually implement them themselves. And even with the government shutdown, they have already selected the contractor for the job that would do this project in this summer. And so they're well poised to make this thing implemented. And so for brevity for today, I was just going to show you a few pictures of what a project like this looks like. So...
 We have some slides, and the first one shows you, most of you know that in 1964, we had a one-in-a-hundred-year flood event in the Pacific Northwest. And we lost homes in the Sandy River Basin. And our reaction was probably large. And we had the Corps of Engineers come in and actually channelize most of our streams. So they went through with bulldozers and just pushed gravel side to side with the idea that we would make water run off in a straight line and go out more quickly.
 And there is some sense to that, but that was incredibly detrimental to habitat and what the fish need. And it's partly why some of our fish are listed under the Endangered Species Act. So on the next slide, this is actually where the proposed project area is on the Zigzag River. And if you look kind of in the background under the trees, you actually see a berm. And that's where the bulldozers just piled up the gravels. And there's large boulders built into that.
 And that berm's been there for over 50 years. And so what it does is the stream kind of stays in a narrow channel and can't get out into the floodplain. And that's where really the fish benefits are. So as we go into the next slide...
 This doesn't look fancy to you, but that's where the fish want to go. When the flood flows come up, we want the flow to spread out sideways, and that's where all the little fish hideouts are and where the velocity is lower. This is what ensures successful completion of their life history. This is sorely lacking in these channelized streams. Thanks.
 And then finally, and you're looking at the top of a berm, and one of the things we do is we actually build what is called engineered log jams. These jams are designed to withstand 100-year flood flow, so they're pretty tricky in their construction. And they make the water go sideways. We will actually breach those old berms in several spots, and then when the water comes up, the wood itself will deflect flow out into those floodplains.
 And so that's the purpose of this type of a project that we're planning to do on the Zigzag River. And I believe that was the last slide, and that was what the habitat looks like. And we were going to stop there and see if you had any questions. Colleagues, any questions? We'll stand by. Perfect. Thank you. We'll take public testimony. Has anybody signed up? Carla? We have three people signed up. Edith Gillis, Maggie, and Jay Veronica Bernier. Very good.
 It always seems that it takes agriculture or fisheries or industrial to see some sort of self-interest for them in order to get these projects to happen. I'm just wondering, have they considered...
 what the impact of global warming is going to have on the projects that they're doing, and are they planning for the increased temperature and what that's going to do, if that's going to make the water go down or if the water's going to go up. So I would look at global warming. Also, I would like to say that other...
 industries need to get involved in cleaning up the messes that we as humans have created and improve the environment and put it back to where it was before. Because we've gouged into the earth and...
 and we've made these messes and polluted the waters and changed the channels. I used to hang out up at the Josie Wallops up in Washington on the Olympic Peninsula, and then they had a huge flood, and they had a fish farm up there, and then the farm animals and the wild salmon, they all...
 got integrated because of the huge flood. And so now the genetic separation of the farm fish and the wild fish is no longer there. They're now...
 They're now integrated, so the farm fish and the wild fish are, you know, hanging out together and they're creating a new genetic species. So how does that play into it? Thank you. Okay. Mayor, before you move to the second reading, I'd just like to thank the staff both from the Water Bureau and our partners for their patience in sitting through this morning. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Any further questions? Thank you.
 There being none, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next up, 44.
 create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements and construct a massed-arm traffic signal at the Northeast 42nd Avenue and Columbia Boulevard intersection in the Northeast 46th Avenue and Saratoga Court local improvement district. Colleagues, this is a second reading. There has already been a presentation and testimony on this item. Is there any further discussion? No.
 Please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? I'm sorry. Hardesty? Wait a second. It was only a matter of time. It was only a matter of time. I think the post-it would have been right. Of all people. Can't kids call Hales? I could call Fritz. Now you'll be called Saltzman. It's only a matter of time. Aye. You daily. Sure.
 Well, I'd just like to thank Andrew Abbey once again. Who knew local improvement districts could be so much fun? And I've been promised a party by TriMet when this is completed. So I vote aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you all. Next item is item 45. Accept report to maintain Title 18 noise code exemption for pile driving. Commissioner Udaly. Yes.
 This item's been referred back to my office. Very good. Item 46. 46, authorize changes to city code to implement campaign finance in candidate elections charter amendment and request initiation of validation action. Very good. And we are honored by the presence of the city auditor. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners.
 I am — Good afternoon. All right. I'm sorry. You're right. Good afternoon. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero and I am here to introduce an ordinance that codifies the recent voter-approved charter amendment that limits certain campaign contributions and expenditures in city elections. While voters overwhelmingly supported this measure, there are constitutional questions that need to be answered before the charter requirements are implemented.
 Several provisions of similar code adopted by Multnomah County Commissioners in response to a Charter Amendment were struck down last year by a circuit court as impermissible under the Oregon Constitution. That decision currently is on appeal. Therefore, in addition to adopting code that is in keeping with the will of the voters, this ordinance also authorizes the city attorney to seek a legal review to ensure the legislation is constitutional before the city moves forward with implementation. Thank you.
 Very good. Any further questions? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning. Good morning. I just want to make sure that we put on the record that this is not...
 attempt to undo what 87% of the voters have done. This actually just positions us to be able to have our own case in the courts to make sure that we can legally implement this measure. That's correct. We want to respect the will of the voters but also make sure that we have those constitutional questions answered before we go forward.
 And one more question. Now, part of the initiative talked about enforcing disclosure requirements. Is that something that the court has to act on or is that something that we, the city, just does because that's what the voters said?
 It's my understanding that we need to have the courts review the code that is before you today. And if they validate some sections but not others, we would go forward with those. And if they invalidate the whole thing, then...
 we would not go forward if they find it unconstitutional. And final question, what's the timeline normally on these kind of court cases? You know, we're still waiting for the county, right? I have the timeline that the county spent, and I don't know if because this case has gone forward ahead of ours, if ours would go faster. I just don't know the answer to that question. But the county charter was passed in November of 2016, and
 And the county filed a validation action, which is being contemplated by you all today, in May of 2017. And the judge issued his order on March 16, 2018. Thank you. Very good. Public testimony. Yes. I believe we have about six more people on the list. The first three, please come on up, are Julia DeGraw, Jason Kavori, and Moses Ross. Yes.
 Come on up. Two minutes. Name for the record, please. And the microphones move around about six inches is ideal. So I have a quick request. Jason had a change in his schedule, and he's going to be coming. He should be here any minute, but could we have Thomas come up third and then have Jason come after Thomas? Okay, perfect. Perfect.
 So yes, my name is Julia DeGraw. I am working with Portland Forward, and I'm also spending some of my time on Honest Elections, which we had the privilege of helping pass this ballot measure with almost 90% of the support of Portland voters.
 I kind of did prepare for three minutes, so hopefully I can power this down. We are happy to see that the city is moving forward with this quickly to implement this as quickly as possible. We have some presentations from other folks who have been working on this for a long time about the updates on where we're at, the legal process, and the constitutionality, which is why Jason is particularly important on this.
 I just personally wanted to recommend that you recommend your city attorneys, you know, fight for this as constitutional in honor of Portland voters and take into account. And that's kind of how the county moved forward with this. And we also did a really great job of addressing some of the concerns that the judge brought up in the ordinance that we passed here in Portland, which is something to keep in mind. But again, it will be brought up by my fellow testifiers.
 I also just wanted to add in here that as someone who ran for Portland City Council, I would have really loved to have been able to both have access to the public funding, which is happening, and I think that dovetails really well with the campaign finance reform. It will be much easier for your public funding to work properly when you have people who aren't going to be raising, you know, thousands of dollars from wealthy individuals and corporations. Thank you.
 Good morning. Moses Ross from the Multnomah neighborhood in Portland. First off, I want to thank you all very much for your consideration of the campaign finance reform and the ordinances that accompany it. Very brief history. I was a member of the Multnomah County Charter Review Committee.
 and I introduced and championed campaign finance reform measure to be voted upon by the voters. The consensus was 89% in approval at the county level.
 We then, our coalition, brought this to the City of Portland voters, and they also decisively agreed 87% approval of the need for campaign finance reform here at both the city and the county. So a broad swath of the community has backed both measures.
 So what has impressed me about the situation as my political passion being enacting campaign finance reform is how many people here in this city want to level this playing field in local politics. We had extensive political coalitions that were meant to get this CFR, campaign finance reform legislation, on the ballot so that the voters could decide.
 And I'm pleased to say that we actually found common cause with not only the Oregonian, the scanner, the Willamette Week, and the Portland Mercury, which I think we should get a star for in the fact that all four of them agreed upon this.
 We also, the four main parties, four out of the five main parties, political parties, also agreed for the need for this. And then, of course, two of the current council members were also in support of this measure. So I mention this to show the comprehensive and broad support for this within the community. And I thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Thomas Etienne, Multnomah County, and a volunteer on this issue. It's extremely important. I'll just start with mentioning that on Tuesday, January 29th, 6 p.m., Lucky Lab on Hawthorne, there will be a gathering with some of our commissioners here about campaign finance, the state of money in politics in Oregon, and anyone who's invited to a public event.
 And other than that, I just live some of the consequences of this as a veteran. We have a long legacy of that. We have issues with why is money and politics able? The Pentagon can say we need to close these bases. They have no defense purpose for national security. Amazingly, the bases won't close. We can't get the right equipment when we needed it
 downrange because it wasn't the most profitable things for industry to produce at that time. No bid contracts, issues like that. The consequences of money in politics is directly tied to the public's trust. If you look at the Georgetown University that did an institutional poll for 2018 of trusted institutions,
 And local government is faring better than state and federal level, which is at the bottom. But it's not faring very well. And at the very top is military and Amazon.com. So you can see where people are finding value in society versus elsewhere.
 the institutions that are supposed to be taken care of, kind of the invisible layer. By the way, I did take some pleasure in seeing that local government ranks in the 50 percent. In the middle. In the middle, 50 to 60 percent. Congress was down at 8 percent. I thought that showed that at least the closer you are to the people, the more likely people are to have some skin in the game and a different feeling about the institution the further away you are.
 the public attitudes declined. By the way, the same poll said that faith in institutions generally, public and private, was plummeting. So it was system-wide in institutions generally, churches, churches,
 government, you name it. But I did think local government did better than most, as I recall. It is, and that's why I think we're sitting here and why you can get this 87% and 88% supporting this issue at the county and city levels.
 It's remarkable that people can identify what's going on because they're not silly. They're not foolish. They understand what's happening, why money and politics is making it particularly difficult for the world to work for their basic benefits. And the real deadly consequences, if you look at Europe, there's a lot of money in politics going in there that's feeding for kind of populist right that's happening right now. Britain's dealing with a huge problem and it can lead to political violence. And I would even suggest that
 Some of the reason that even this body has a hard time with people coming in here, they can't find a way to actually address grievances that works anymore. And then it ends up going into foolishness and disrespectfulness because they don't believe it works anymore. And it should have been dealt with further back along the line. But I'll just close with, what was it, Justice Louis Brandes, who said, you know, we may have democracy or we may have wealth concentrated in the hands of a few, but we can't have both.
 People made their choice, and this is what they see as a way forward. Thank you. Appreciate it. The next three are Jason Kofori, Maggie, and Ron Buell. So we'll go with Nancy Newell. Good afternoon. Afternoon. I ran over here because I was late. First, obviously, we're urging you guys. What's that? Name for the record.
 Jason Kafoury, we're urging you as our city council to stand with the 87.5% of the citizens and the Portland voters who took this measure and looked at it and analyzed it and said, yes, this is what we need to get big money out of our local politics. The landscape has dramatically shifted on big money in politics. We just saw Phil Knight contribute $4.5 million in this last gubernatorial race, and
 The U.S. Supreme Court, I think, is going to be attacking unions in the future and their power to participate. We are seeing the super-rich take over courts across the country and buy legislators. And we have a lot of momentum here in Oregon at several levels. At the county level, the 26184, which passed in 2016...
 is now on a fast track to go right to the Supreme Court. You guys may not know that, but the Court of Appeals has now agreed that it can go directly to the Supreme Court. So we may get a decision on that within a year, a year and a half, which would be fabulous. Secondly, I expect that the 26-200 measure, which you guys are dealing with now, will likely get put into abatement soon.
 or joined with that other 26184 lawsuit. There are several differences between 26184 and 200, and I don't have time to get into all of them, but in general the Portland measure flushes out enforcement and the disclosures piece in a much more detailed level than the county measure did. Do you consider those to be constitutional issues or administrative issues? Both. One.
 One of the reasons that 26184 on the disclosures piece was thrown out by Judge Block is he called it, quote, vague because there was only one sentence about it. So what we did at the city measure is we fleshed it out over three or four pages of exactly how that would work. So it covers both. We've been approached now by Lane County to bring a similar measure by their head person at city council there. The governor working with her.
 on a legislative referral directly to the voters for 2020. That's in the draft phase. The legislative Senate has now set up a campaign finance reform committee that Senator Jeff Golden is chairing.
 And there are several House bills that deal with these issues. So bottom line, we'd like you, as our city council, to urge your city attorneys to back this effort pushed by the voters at the courts. Because it's a political issue just as much as it is a legal issue. Thank you, guys. Jason, could I ask you a couple of questions? Yeah, go ahead. I always appreciate free legal advice, so I'll take advantage of the opportunity. I'm here to answer.
 So you had identified a couple of areas that had been identified in the county proposal as being somewhat weak. Do you feel then that the issues have been adequately addressed? And if so, why would this proposal be, I forget the exact word you used, but joined with the county effort? Why wouldn't it just be approved on its face if it addresses those issues that the judge had concerns about in the county initiative?
 So remember, there's four parts to these measures. So number one is limits on contributions. That has to get addressed at the Supreme Court or as a constitutional referral. That just has to. So that's a must-have. That one has to be dealt with because...
 unlike 37 other states with the exact same free speech clause that all have limits on contributions, for some reason our 1997 Oregon Supreme Court made a ruling saying that limits violate our free speech clause in our state constitution. So we think that is beyond an outlier and that our Oregon Supreme Court will overturn that or that it will get referred to the voters directly. So that's piece one.
 piece two, the disclosures piece, I think it's there's no court that's ever found it unconstitutional and the main reason that blocked it was because there wasn't any fleshed out details. So I expect that that is now going to pass constitutional muster. Yeah, the disclosures piece. We also put limits on independent expenditures
 that's going to get thrown out, we believe, because Citizens United. I mean, you just – Citizens United says dark money can give as much money as they want. And, of course, that's where the disclosures piece fits in. At least we can make the independent expenditures say who's given the money in their advertising. Eric Garland might have decided that case differently.
 When this all started back in 2016, yes, we thought that Judge Garland would have been a much better decider. In fact, Hillary Clinton said it was her litmus test. One of her litmus tests for a judge was to overturn Citizens United. Mr. Kupori, if that piece gets pulled out or it's questioned, does that invalidate the whole thing or just that piece? We were smart lawyers, Mayor. What we did is we put a clause in there that says –
 If any of this is found unconstitutional, it does not impact the rest of the measure. So it's going to be a piecemeal selection. And then we have these small donor committees where unions or nonprofit groups or the OLCV, for example, can give, as long as they can identify $100 per member, they can give larger donations. I don't see any constitutional problems with that. I think that probably passes constitutional muster. And then, as I said, the fourth piece is the disclosures taglines, which has been upheld.
 eight or ten different states, Washington and California, all have incredibly similar disclosure laws now. So I think the biggie, though, is going to be can we put a cap on how much an individual can give to a politician? That's going to be the biggie, and that's going to be something that we learn in 2020 from the Supreme Court or from but we would like all of you as politicians to support the effort that these should be constitutional with our city attorneys. Thank you. Thank you for your clarification. Thanks for answering my questions. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Okay. So dark money has led to our EPA being led by a coal CEO. It's led to the NRA being able to buy less regulation. So we have all these assault weapons that are unaccounted for and mass shootings.
 and foreign money coming into our government, as well as corporations, and the Russian nesting doll of political action committees and non-profits that just...
 can hide all their money. And corporations are people, and dollars are voters, and that's what we've got. That's why we've got the situation we have in Washington. And you should be able to run as who you are.
 I realize Oregon's a Democrat state, and so you, Ted, were once a registered Republican, but you have to run as a Democrat in order to be in the race to win. Maggie, that was over, I think, 20 years ago. I ran for mayor three years ago, and that's well known. That is on the record.
 And that's also a non-partisan position. It has nothing to do with what we're here to discuss today. I'm just saying you should be able to run as what you believe in and not on the whim of where the most –
 money is going to get you in. And then you look at disabled people, poor people, they don't have the money to buy their representation. So you have all these smaller little groups that have absolutely no money. And how does this encourage voters to vote? And young people.
 You know, young people don't have money. How does that encourage them to vote if they've got all this foreign and corporate money and dark donors? Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Nancy Newell. I'm a longtime activist in the city of Portland. I'm proud of my record. Thank you.
 I have drawn attention to government officials when there are crooks and there are things happening within not only City Hall but the county and at several levels of governance in the state of Oregon. I think it is essential...
 Chase Bank is now, because Mayor Wheeler feels that they're appropriate to have the loan on the repair of our water infrastructure. Our water leads to autism in children when families can't afford enough water to give their children. These are critical issues. And I've been kicked out of the State Treasurer's Office, bringing it to the attention there. And every time I brought it to the attention...
 Something happens that cuts me off from getting the information to the public. But I have been proven right every time. I'll give you a great example. Enron was brought in here, and I pointed out what they had done in India, and that was not regarded, was easily licensed, and the CEO of Enron ended up dead. And it is questionable, and there is several facts that he was actually murdered. So we have Chase Bank having our commons...
 Thanks to the mayor, as state treasurer, and you think if anybody in this room thinks that big money in this town, Chase Bank's headquarters is right behind us, the biggest international crooks operate in this city, and they get things done in their way. And I don't think...
 Any of my efforts have been in vain. I just think that to continue to be honest about what actually goes on behind the scenes, Warren Buffett owns Pacific Corps. Why do we have him owning a utility where people's electricity is essential to so many services, including hospitals, where backup electricity may not even function well enough? And he's known for poor maintenance. He's already been cited several times. Do something about it. This is a start. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, guys. And we're doing a forum on January 29th on this whole big money in politics, so we'll be sure to invite all of you guys to that. Very good. Unless Edith, Shedrick, or Veronica are in the room, that's all who signed up. Very good. Unless there's any further questions, we'll call the roll. The report? I'm sorry. This is your audience. Sorry, I had them on. Fritz.
 Thanks to the auditor for bringing this to us expeditiously. I want to be very clear that the honest elections that was passed by Portland's voters is very different from the city's open and accountable election program, which is a voluntary and public matching system with its own rules and requirements.
 So that's not what we're talking about today. However, if you are planning to use the program in the city's 2020 election, there are rules and regulations that you must already be following, and we are recommending that you follow both the honest election and the open and accountable elections laws to be sure that you're in compliance. And you can find out about the open and accountable elections program by going to portlandoregon.gov slash OAE.
 Well, as I listen to Mr. Kofori carefully, what I conclude is that there are some aspects of the charter amendment which are likely to pass constitutional muster. And there's a couple aspects that are going to require either a Supreme Court ruling, that is the Oregon Supreme Court, or a referral to the voters to change the state constitution.
 I think the idea that we piggyback off of the county action, if that has the effect of expediting things, is a good suggestion. I think we should encourage the city attorney to explore that.
 But ultimately, what we're doing here is asking a judge to give us some guidance as to the constitutional landscape. And the author of this has told us that at least potentially two aspects raise constitutional concerns based on prior rulings of the Oregon Supreme Court. So we need to go through this exercise before we implement it. Thanks to the auditor for bringing this forward. I think we had a very good discussion, and I vote aye. Artis Steak.
 Thank you. I also appreciate the auditor bringing this forward and for her timeliness so that we're doing it as soon as we possibly can. I will say that as someone who recently went through 18 months of running for office, clearly big money in politics is a huge issue. And it is an issue that this measure attempts to...
 Why do you take money from Terry Dean, the white privilege real estate mogul, Joe Harzini, or Rick Skid and Shields?
 It wouldn't be a Wednesday, folks. It wouldn't be a Wednesday. No, it would not, unfortunately. I don't think he was here for your speech. No, he was here looking for an opportunity, yes. And again, I think that we are headed in the right direction. Clearly, voters spoke loud and clearly. We're for over 87% of the voters, so there's no question what the voters want. And I certainly hope that the city attorneys will be strong advocates for
 for what the voters voted into law. I. You daily. Our electoral system was not designed to welcome or include average citizens or working people, let alone those from more marginalized communities, which means that their interests and perspectives are frequently not well represented or well reflected in our elected representatives.
 And I share the, I guess, sentiment or wishes of Julia DeGraw as someone who ran on a shoestring budget and who refused campaign contributions from corporate entities that do business with the city. I definitely could have used this kind of campaign finance reform to kind of even the playing field and lower the barriers to participation in our electoral system. So I'm very supportive of that.
 of this, along with the vast majority of Portlanders who voted for it. And given the mandate that they gave us, we need to ensure we deliver a program that reflects the will of the people as closely as possible. I guess...
 with the exception of any constitutional concerns. So I'm eager to hear what the attorneys come up with, and I vote aye. Wheeler. I appreciate the auditor for bringing this up and staying here and listening to the testimony, and I want to thank Mr. Capori in particular for answering some of the more specific questions I had regarding this.
 And there is no denying that this was overwhelmingly popular with the people of this community. And as a council, I believe we have an obligation to see it through. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. I believe the next item is 38 from the consent agenda.
 extend contract with Comstructure Consulting LLC for two years and increase the not-to-exceed amount by $2 million to provide additional on-call telecommunication services. Very good. We have Beth Fox here to answer any questions. Mayor, this is a second meeting. This is being brought as a courtesy to Commissioner Hardesty, who asked for an opportunity to ask some questions on this. Absolutely. Okay.
 Good morning. My name is Beth Fox. I'm with the Bureau of Technology Services.
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Beth, for being here. I was intrigued because when I looked at the original contract, that was for $300,000, and we're extending it for $2 million additional. So my question is, wouldn't we normally, if we're going to $2 million, go back out for an RFP? And if not, why not?
 It's a very good question. I think the contract initially was for $312,500, and it came through our normal flexible services, RFP. When we started to take a look at the work that needed to be done from a fiber perspective, when the Portland renovation started, we realized that we would need –
 significant amount of funds to make sure that the engineering of the move of all the fiber that was in the Portland building was done correctly. At that time, we decided to add $500,000 to the contract, which took us to $812,500. We are currently taking a look at our own fiber optic network, which relies on significant engineering costs, which is why we've asked for the additional funds and added an additional two years so that we can get through the engineering process.
 design of our current fire optic network. Was that too much information? Oh, no, that was enlightening. But I'm still trying to understand the contracting process, right? So if you contract with someone for $300,000 and now all of a sudden it's a $2 million contract, how do you decide to just keep extending the contract and adding money as compared to going back out during another RFP process? Yes.
 That's a good question. We did extend this to 2022, which is the 10-year limit on this particular contract, which we will then go out for another RFP. Right now we're looking at other companies that can provide this information to start the process of creating a new RFP. It's a pretty complex engineering requirement, so we're looking at what we wanted to add in addition to that.
 to what we did with the last RFP so we can be a little bit more inclusive of what we need so we don't have to continually keep adding funds. Thank you. Any further questions, colleagues? Please call the roll. Carla? Fritz? Thank you for your patience. Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, Beth. We are adjourned until 2 p.m.
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, January 16th session of the Portland City Council. Welcome. It's great to see some young people here today. How are you doing? Good. Y'all excited? Yeah, good. We're going to make this interesting and fun. Carla, would you please call the roll? Yes. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Wheeler? Here. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Thank you.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thank you very much. First item up is item number 47, please, Carla. Authorized relocation and placement of the Mayo House to 236 Northeast Sacramento Street.
 change comprehensive plan and zoning map designations from residential 2500 R2.5 to mixed-use urban center CM3 at 236 Northeast Sacramento Street and 2313 WINE Northeast Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, waive certain charges and requirements.
 the Mayo House on the historic resource inventory and as a contributing structure.
 Colleagues, we're here today to hear public testimony on a proposed relocation effort with the move of the historic Mayo House, which is located in the Elliott neighborhood. Please note that there is a revised impact statement that's been included in your packets. The financial and budgetary impacts were not in the earlier edition. Additionally, we have a substitute for Exhibit A, and I'd like to request a motion for Exhibit A, the substitute. So moved.
 Second. Commissioner Hardesty has moved. Commissioner Fritz has seconded the amendment.
 I'd like to take the roll on that, put it on the table, please. Is there any further discussion? Would you just explain what is the difference between what was published? Joe, could you come up and explain the amendment, please? It's the findings. The earlier filing had the findings against the comprehensive plan criteria for a comprehensive plan change, but did not include the zone change criteria. So it's just the criteria against both the comprehensive plan and the zoning map. Thank you. Very good. So very good. Please call the roll.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Thank you. Now I'll move, or excuse me, I'll move. I'd like to invite BPS Interim Director Joe Zender and staff.
 Nance Stark and Brandon Spencer-Hardell up to tell us a little bit more about this ordinance, which will be heard on an emergency basis today. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, everyone. We have a very short presentation on this project to give you. Brandon's first going to walk through the property and sort of what the history of the property and what the actions are. Nan's going to talk us through the elements that are contained in the ordinance, and I'll wrap up by discussing the STC waiver in particular. So with that, I'll turn it over to Brandon.
 Mayor, Commissioners, Brandon Spencer-Hardell, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Historic Resources Program Manager. And, Nan, if I could get you to advance to the next slide. So we're here to talk to you today about the Martin Mayo House. The Martin Mayo House is located in the broader Albina area at 206 Northeast Sacramento Street between Rodney and MLK. Get your next. Thank you.
 The Mayo House was built in 1895 for Austrian immigrant Martin Mayo. It was moved in 1912 to make room for a larger mixed-use apartment building and moved again in 1930 when Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard was widened and that larger apartment building was shifted back. So the house has been on its current site since 1930. It was restored after a fire in 1964. Next slide.
 And in 1984, it was identified in the citywide comprehensive historic resource inventory as a significant ranked resource for architectural history and significance. About a decade later, the city council created the Elliott Conservation District. And in that conservation district, this building was identified as a contributing historic resource. So it's both on the inventory and contributing to that conservation district. Thank you.
 In the Conservation District, the property is subject to a 120-day demolition delay provision, which has no opportunity for denial or extension. And on January 11th, a demolition permit was issued for the Martin Mayo House. I'm going to turn it over here to Nan to talk about the proposed move and ordinance. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, Commissioner Hardesty. Welcome to the city. Thank you.
 My name is Nan Stark. I'm the Northeast District Liaison with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I will briefly review the ordinance with you, but first I'm just going to give you a little background on how we got here today. In my role as a district liaison, I try to connect the community with issues and concerns related to city government, and in this case I reached out to let people know about the 120-day program
 notification for the possible demolition or deconstruction of the Mayo House to see if we could
 find collaboratively a new location for the house. And at that time, I also met with the owners' representatives of the Mayo House property, knowing that they had a redevelopment in mind, and that's why they needed to remove the house. But I did want to alert them early on that this was a community priority to try to save the house and to kind of get that on their timeline. Okay.
 And also with Brandon's help, he reached out to the preservation community. And through all that effort, the Davis family stepped forward. They own a property three doors down from the Mayo House, also on Sacramento Street. So it's a rare opportunity that you're going to find a relocation spot so close by.
 And then we also had a consulting team step forward who has a lot of experience in doing historic house moves. So it's been a collaborative effort all along. And since that time, I've learned from the Davises about the history of their property. And Cleo Davis will tell you more about that history today.
 It included removal of the apartment house that you see on the screen on the left that was considered blight property in the early 1980s. That structure was identified as a cornerstone of community property for its association with the African American community. The house on the right that you see is the one that still exists on the property. So the one on the left was removed.
 and has been an open space on the lot since then. So now I'll just go over the specifics about the ordinance, which is to change the comprehensive plan and the zoning map to align with what's adjacent to it, which is the mixed-use urban center comp plan designation and the CM3 mixed commercial three zoning plan.
 and also to retain the contributing status for the Mayo House structure, to waive SDC fees associated with the move, and also to waive a couple of the standards in the community design standards for the new foundation. Okay.
 So in terms of comprehensive plan policies, what we're bringing today is a unique opportunity for the city to advance our comprehensive plan goals and policies while also providing community benefits. This is not a precedent. We've done the same things for other house moves.
 And this project itself supports the policies that you see on preservation equity, cultural diversity, economic viability, and disparity reduction. So it is a unique case in supporting these and many other comprehensive plan goals and policies that you will see a discussion of in the findings for this. There are also a number of public benefits associated with the project.
 It provides community benefits. It provides wealth-generating opportunities. It preserves a piece of the historic fabric of the Elliott neighborhood, offers the opportunity for a potential future community space, and allows redevelopment of the site that the Mayo House was formerly on.
 And now I'll just describe to you what the zone change is. So what you're looking at is the existing zoning on the left-hand side. The two shaded lots are the two that we are changing. And so what you'll see if this is adopted is what's listed as the proposed zoning on the right-hand side. It aligns with the CM3 zoning to the north. Okay.
 which goes into the commercial area on Russell Street. You see MLK Jr. Boulevard adjacent to the east or right of these properties, Russell Street to the north, and then the site is on Sacramento Street. There is an auto repair...
 that is at the corner of Sacramento and MLK Road.
 Just to the west of that is a lot that is currently zoned R2.5, and it's also in the same ownership as the auto repair site, and then the Davis property to the west of that. So what this would do would be to take away, rectify that nonconforming situation that's currently there in the auto repair site,
 and include the Davis property into the CM3 zoning. So you'll get some benefits from that. It will rectify that nonconforming situation. It will allow greater densities and mixed-use options for the site that the Mayo House will be located on. And it will also allow a transfer of unused floor area ratio as a result of the Mayo House move.
 that could potentially go to other development sites in the future. And with that, I will turn it over to Joe, who's going to talk about the system development charges. Thank you, Nan. So there's two aspects to the requested SDC waiver for the Mayo House. But first, system development charges, as the council well knows,
 are fees that are charged for new dwelling units to pay into water and sewer system capacity and to upgrade transportation and parks infrastructure. This is sort of an essential tool for how we pay for the growth of the city and not want to be waived lightly.
 The kind of things that we looked at here with this particular property is that the house that is being moved already exists and it stays within roughly the same block as its previous location. So to an extent it's a new unit, but struck us as, between the historic preservation objectives and others, not a significant increase.
 But the numbers on this slide summarize the total amount of fees for the house move that would be waived.
 Second, there's an STC waiver that's part of this ordinance as well for the new basement apartment that would be located in the Mayo House. So the Mayo House is going to be relocated, put on a new foundation, and a unit would be added in the basement. And the waiver is proposed to help offset the large cost of moving this house and to help limit the financial liability on the new owners.
 And so our criteria here are not so explicit, how you're sort of tracking within the same area, is this a new unit or not, and is it adequately offset by other public benefits to waive this SDC? Some of the things to consider is that, as Nan showed you in that picture, what used to be here was a seven-unit apartment building. What used to be here was torn down. That building was torn down in 1982. Right.
 That building was torn down as part of the blight ordinance that the city had at the time.
 And the blight ordinance itself and how it was applied to the Elliott neighborhood has an equity story built into it. And at the end of the day, this would just be one additional unit. Well, it's actually a unit and upstairs is a different use. So we thought that was a fair balancing of those potential impacts.
 However, the total amount that's waived for the basement apartment is $14,000 for SDCs. Joe, could I just ask a real quick question? We made the waiver for SDCs and ADUs permanent, so why wouldn't that apply? Why are we looking at this as if –
 We're making a special accommodation? I believe this is not an accessory unit in this case. I think it's because there are now restrictions on receiving that waiver. Okay. We do have an expert in the room, Matt Wickstrom, who... It's all right. I mean, presumably we are going to pass this and waive both of them, but I am a little confused. Yeah, I think that would be my assumption, but I apologize, Commissioner, I don't know. No problem.
 So the questions come up about do we have a policy and are there precedents for this? The city council has used this tool of the SDC waiver to support historic preservation in the past.
 The two examples I wanted to show you are, first, this property on Southeast Hawthorne. It's a very large house. It was relocated, and SDC's waivers were approved by city council. I believe this one was in 2012. Okay.
 And then what's interesting about this is that it's also wasn't, I don't know if it was explicitly discussed by city council at that time, but the house moved and became more than just a single family house. There were some additional units added to it since it was such a large structure. Second example is the one that's more current. It's the
 Thank you. The Morris Marks House that was relocated from the central city out to the edge of South Portland. And once again, STC waivers were approved by city council this time in 2017 to help economically support what is a valuable project to do but has a different level of expense. Okay.
 Finally, whether or not, and these were the two most recent examples that we were able to find. This is not a tool that's used very frequently. However, it is fair to say that it's not a tool also where we have explicit policy guidance on when to apply it and when not to apply it. We're undertaking, if you can go to the last slide, Nan.
 A couple of changes to the historic landmarks code. Brandon's bringing forward a code improvement package in the coming year. And also at the state level, there's some changes that are really going to be useful to Portland if they go through vis-a-vis how we establish.
 residential historic districts. But even neither of these two actions, and these are the biggest two changes on the horizon, will really change the prospect of the use of relocation of historic structures. So it's still going to stay this kind of episodic and unique to the building application.
 And with that, we conclude our presentation. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. On the topic of system development charges, if the use changes to a commercial use in the future, at that point would system development charges be assessed? I believe they would, yes. And what would trigger that? If I could ask Matt to come up, I'll let him answer it specifically. Thank you.
 Hi, Matt Wickstrom, Bureau of Development Services. The permit for the new commercial use would trigger the system development charges to be assessed at that time. So if you're changing from a residential use to a commercial use, you have to get a permit to do that? Yes, change of occupancy at the very minimum and then likely a higher threshold. If I could answer Commissioner Udaly's question, there would be three dwelling units on the site and so...
 Accessory dwelling units are only in a situation where there's a house and one additional dwelling unit. So just it's really more of a technicality that the two units on the site couldn't be called accessory dwelling units. And with a change of use permit from residential to commercial, what if the use is for a nonprofit or community space? Is that still considered commercial?
 be considered probably a community service use, potentially. However, it would still need a permit. So there's still the potential for the SDC bureaus to then look at SDCs. I'm sorry if I interrupted you. Oh, no, no, no. I'm just sorry to hear that.
 However, I guess I should say for community service use, I can't say how their fees would apply or what level of fees, but I know it would give the potential for them to look at their fee schedule and assess whether fees would apply. I guess I'd just say that I feel really strongly about this project.
 in regards to disparity reduction and remedying past harm. So while I understand that a change of use would typically trigger SDCs, I'm concerned about that potential in this case where we're acknowledging disparities and harm done to the property owner and looking at this as
 some kind of remediation, but we may still charge them SDCs if they want to change the use of their property and perhaps generate more revenue from it. Commissioner, can I make a suggestion? Sure. And I just want to say that on behalf of the utilities...
 We have to be extremely careful about how we allocate SDC waivers. We don't have to have that public discussion. There may be lawyers watching. So we can talk about the most laudable goals there are, but we have to be very judicious. But I see no reason why in this case, if you have this concern, we couldn't have a friendly amendment that simply provides that if there is a change of use at some point, counsel is directed that they get noticed before SDCs are applied.
 so a member of council would then have a chance to say, under these circumstances, we suggest there be a deferral or waiver or something. But I want to caution on behalf of the utilities that you can put the mission and goal and the purpose as close to the chair next to God as you want. It doesn't avoid certain concerns that we have to bring to the table around nexus because it's a closed system. Right.
 Why not have the council notified if that contingency ever occurs so that it could supersede whatever decision BDS makes? Sure. And to be clear, number one, I'm not trying to put you on the spot. You're simply the messenger in telling us what the policies are. I just wanted to go on record expressing that concern and questioning whether or not there's any –
 Anything additional we need to do now, but it sounds like an amendment that would bring it back to council and so we could sort out what fees would have to be assessed and what could be waived. Sounds good to me.
 Is that a motion? Sure. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, and I think... Can you restate what the amendment is? Sorry. Commissioner Udaly. Kids, isn't this thrilling? In the event of a change of occupancy prior to assessing any systems development charges, the Bureau of Development Services shall notify the Council, which shall have the opportunity to take action before the effective date of NES system development charges. I couldn't have said it better myself. Okay.
 Okay, that is the motion. It was moved by Commissioner Udaly. It was seconded by Commissioner Fish, who just by this much beat out Commissioner Hardesty. So I'd give him a tie if I could under the rules, but I can't. So that is now on the table at the –
 to the council, we can either vote now or wait until after testimony. Commissioner Udaly, what's your preference? I think after testimony is fine. Very good. We'll leave that amendment on the table for people to comment on. Very good. Does that complete your testimony? Yes, thank you. Well, thank you for the presentation. It was very good. It was to the point. Before we start public testimony, I'd like to invite Cleo Davis, who is the owner of the property to which the Mayo House is going to be located, to come up and make a few remarks. Thank you for being here. Welcome. Thank you.
 It's nap time. I know. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. So much has already been said. I've been racking my brains the last... Could you put your name on the record, please? My name is Cleo Davis, Jr. Thank you. And you're welcome. I've been racking my brains for the last couple weeks about what I was going to say here. And...
 I pretty much started off with saying that it was an honor to be here, which it's not. So let's be truthful. And no disrespect to the current panel. My family has had a long history here in Portland, as well as many other African Americans in this community. Our story is not necessarily unique here.
 The only difference with this story is that it's actually documented. It's something that I remember, and it's something that I can dig out proof from the city archives. And we have all the proof. A lot of it done in art down on the first floor. My grandmother, Mama Julia Davis Williams, purchased this property in 1982 in the hopes of having it as rental income.
 She wasn't from Portland. This was her vacation stay from Phoenix, Arizona. When the weather got hot, her and her family, including my father and his siblings, would come to Portland. It was a lot cooler than Phoenix. But eventually, by the 80s, I was already born, and that branch of the family had made a home here.
 And one of the ways of income that my grandmother really went for and instilled in her family was property. You own property and you'll always have a place to stay. And no one can tell you what to do with it. Whether it's residential for a place to stay or whether it's commercial for you to do your work. Because no one's going to hire you. You make your own living.
 So in 1982, she purchased this property with a seven-unit apartment building in the front and a small serving quarters in the back for $20,000. All of her children were builders. My father, well, let me slow down. Every single one of my uncles, as well as my dad, could build a structure from the ground up. But they had a specialty.
 My father's specialty was electric. Although he could build a building from the ground up, he specialized in electric and bringing energy to a building. His younger brother was a structural engineer, a civil engineer who specialized in structural capabilities. Oldest brother was a carpenter, a roofer, could put any pitch.
 any type of complicated gables onto a structure. The second oldest was a mason. He could do any type of brick work that you could think of, parquet, do designs, put your name in brick. That's just a little bit of background. My aunt, their only sister, was more into the management and the financial side of things.
 So when my grandmother looked at this place, she saw that this would be a source of income for the family. Well, it had a blight ordinance on it from a previous, another Davis family, another black Davis family. And back then...
 It wasn't easy. It ain't easy today either. I'm saying black back then. It wasn't easy to get property. So there's all kind of stories where black folks had to work together or get the neighborhood that we live in was previously occupied by Germans and Ashkenazi Jews who would help us, who would put their name on the deeds and then transfer it to us.
 So gain and property for black folks, not just in Portland but in America, has always been a difficult task. Wealth building. We've been the ones that have been exploited. And every time we try to come up, it's ripped right from us by anything. Nuisance laws, bogus racist policies just to keep us as the workers or to kill us off.
 But back to the story. I may go on tangents, but it's all applicable to what I'm saying. So the city was upset. We weren't aware of any of the urban policies and the plans near the Lloyd District or what property value was going to be worth. My family, what we did, we were builders, creatives, and we went fishing.
 We didn't go to council meetings. We weren't in the know like that. We had other interests. So when my grandmother purchased it in 1982, the city was upset because it restarts the clock of getting things up to code. So it was very difficult because my grandmother fought and she went to council. She fought.
 until 1984 for those two structures. They were both set to be condemned, and council shot it down. Council said, no, the structure is unfit. If you look at the structure, and my uncle, being a civil and structural engineer, they wouldn't allow them to, we weren't allowed to, we were allowed to submit permits, but permits weren't granted.
 Because we had to have a $50,000 bond in 1982 in order to do this. Who has $50,000 to just let stay away with no interest? So council shot it down. And that's why I'm saying it's not necessarily an honor to be here. It's cool in the memory of...
 my grandmother, Mama Julia, and my family that's here supporting me and my dad who has, you know, been through everything with my grandmother as well as taking her...
 to the doctor due to high blood pressure coming to meetings and dealing with city ordinances and dealing with the notifications coming in through the mail and so on and so forth and all the stress. There's human harm. There's damage done here. And that's really what I'm...
 I want to address and get you guys to understand it's just not for me. It's not just about policies and what we can and can't do. We create policies as humans to help humanity. But many of the policies that we're still operating under are still racist policies that only benefit a few. So basically what I'm here to say is do the right thing.
 Do the right thing and pass this through. My grandmother, since 1982, since she has purchased the property, rough calculations, not in-depth. If we got in-depth, it would be more. For those seven-unit apartment buildings, our family has lost over $2.5 million. And everyone around us is building skyscrapers, and we have back tax to pay.
 Portland, map us. 236 Northeast Sacramento Street, which was also 234 Northeast Sacramento Street. So what our goal is today is to right this wrong. We're not here asking for money. We're asking for the opportunity. Let me change my language. I'm not asking. I'm saying we have to have the opportunity. We have to have the opportunity to be prosperous.
 We have all these other bogus programs going around that aren't necessarily going to help. We have all this conversation about displaced peoples and certain properties are being given back to the black community. Who's it going to benefit? We have preference policies that aren't going to work because the policies aren't in place to allow that. So...
 What I'm here to say is do the right thing. We also plan on, with that house move, of course we plan on putting together a prosperity package for a family, but we also plan on opening it up to the community for other members of the diaspora to prosper. We need to create cities and policies that help all people,
 Not that just exploit. There's been enough exploitation going on. And I'll end with do the right thing. Pass this through. Thank you. Thank you for sharing this story. We appreciate it. I don't know if you wanted to say a few words? In a minute. I'm going to let everybody else go and then I'll go. Okay, very good. Thank you. So with that, we'll open it up to questions.
 Public testimony, and just a reminder that this is public testimony about the proposed map change. As staff indicated, this is a proposed change to the comprehensive plan and zoning maps from residential R2.5 to mixed-use urban center, CM3 for the site where the Mayo House will be moved, which is 236 Northeast Sacramento Street, and the abutting property just to the west, which is 2313 West.
 West Northeast ML King Jr. Boulevard. Carla, how many people do we have signed up today? I show 10 left on the list. Very good. Call up the first three. And again, if you can just state your name for the record, we don't need your address. The microphones work best if they're about six, eight inches away. They're very, very sensitive microphones. And if you could keep your testimony to three minutes, please.
 The first three, please come on up, are Karen Carlson, Rick Michelson, and A.J. McCreery. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Karen Carlson. We were here before you about a little over a year ago, a little year and maybe four months, with another house move. Thank you. We're making progress on that. And it's really, we're pleased to be a part of this house move. It's unique. It's unique.
 and it means a whole lot more than just saving and historic property issues as heard. It's, oh, Mayor Wheeler, I must thank you for your help in making this happen, and I recall distinctly at the Morris Marks House, you expressed that you had nothing to do with it
 Do you remember? I do. Well, now you do. So thank you. And I'm very thrilled, by the way, with the Morris Marks House. I think that was a fantastic collaborative effort on the part of the city. I just didn't want to claim credit for something I really had nothing to do with. Now you can claim credits. Now's my big chance. Thank you for remembering that. So it is moving along, since no one has mentioned. The house will be moved on the 27th of January. That's just less than two weeks from now.
 Work has been underway. We have an excavation. We have the house being lifted tomorrow. I invite you all to come and see it. House moves are pretty fun.
 This one is a short one, so don't take a long time like the Morse marks did. But it's been a pleasure to work with Clio. The representative for the developer has been very cooperative as well, removing trees, even contributing some to the move. So I want to make sure that we understand that, you know, there has been help on that side. They're not stopping the house move. They're helping the house move. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Rick Michelson, and apparently I am the House Move Bank of Portland because this is the second one that I'm financing and making sure happens. I'm really pleased to be involved with this house for a couple of reasons. One is meeting Cleo and working with him and his family is wonderful.
 The other is my dear friend Kathy Galbraith from the Bosco Milligan Foundation recently passed away, and she had a great interest in this area, working on the Cornerstone Project and really helping to recognize the historic presence of the African Americans. So this move, although this is not African American owned, was clearly part of that story. In addition, when I first worked for the city in 1981, one of my tasks was reviewing the proposed demolitions.
 piles of folders would come over my desk every day. And I was working for Commissioner Margaret Strawn at that point and went in and asked her what to do with them. And she said, just hide them. Don't sign them. Don't send them on. Well, that lasted for a couple of months. But as you can see, the bureaucracy got to us again and more and more torn down. It's great to be able to help put this house back there. We're thrilled. We're looking forward to making it happen again.
 And it's just exciting for the community that everything's coming together. I want to give you a little report on the Morris Marks House as well. We got it moved. It's gone down on the foundation. We're about a month away from getting the building permits to renovate it.
 It's turning out to be a very expensive project, and some of the costs are public works requirements that we may be coming to talk to you about LIDing or waiving in the near future. But I don't want to get into any detail on that. This is a day to celebrate this House move and to move forward with this one. Thank you. Hi, my name is A.J. McCrary. I'm a community member, historian, and artist. I've known the Davis family for well over 15 years.
 Could not be more proud of them and excited for them to have this opportunity and to give back to our community. One, for this wrong to be made a little better and an opportunity for this family to prosper in Portland, as well as...
 opportunity for people to learn from what they're doing and then ultimately the space will be for our community we need that we need to see POC and black owned spaces and we need to see POC and black people thriving in our city Portland has a history of doing everything but allowing black people and POC community members thrive we need to make this better
 It's long been time, and it would be really nice to see our leaders step up to the plate and start making those changes. Thank you. The next three are Cleo Davis Sr., Tasunga Davis, and K.M. Talton Davis. Welcome. Take the middle one, because this is the one I took when I was here 34 years ago.
 Well, maybe you should take the other one. Same panel. I wasn't here. No, but we had a black guy there. That's for you to say. Yeah, Jordan. He what? Was that his name? Mm-hmm. Was it Mike? Charles Jordan. Might have been. Yeah. Mm-hmm. So my name is Cleo Davis, and I'm 78 years old. Looking good. And this place brings back memories. Yes.
 Because when I first walked into this building with my mom, we was happy. Seen a black person on the committee. And after we got through talking, me and my mom walked out of here sad. And I had to take her to the hospital. Because they was going, they was going to those or both of the places. One thing I learned in life, when you live history, you don't have to read all that history. And I'm not...
 No educated person. So that's how I found out. You don't, if you live history, you don't have to read history. They have to do it. They have to do it. I don't. And one thing I learned, and don't hold this against my kids. That's why I'm saying it. Please don't take this out on my kids, because I'll be dead pretty soon. But that's the reason I say they'll have to live, and they'll have to continue this.
 And I always told them, you don't want to make none of these city people unhappy. Because if you do, you're doomed. Me, I'm old. I don't care about making them unhappy. Because I done lived my life and seen all the prejudice and stuff. Whenever you have to get up and beg and tell the city, and they tell you, you got to put $50,000 up.
 to save your places, don't we gonna dose them? Then you sat down here and you beg them and then they say, oh, that's right. They feel sorry for my mom. And you know what the feeling sorry did? To us it was a good thing. At least we were saving one. They say, you got a choice.
 You either put $50,000 up here. Well, what about the interest on the $50,000? That was a lot of money back in them days. What about the interest when we bring the $50,000 and put it up here? What y'all? No interest. Well, we about to start a deaf anyway. My mom on Social Security. Now, 34 years from now, I'm on Social Security, and I'm back in the same place again.
 And just like I try to tell my kids, trust nobody. Because if they tell you something and they don't write it down and you don't sign it, if you don't make agreement, two days they can change, they can switch over. That's what you did. It's the same 34 years ago. I'm not feeling sorry for myself. I'm feeling sorry for the rest of the people.
 And my family, because they're going to have to take this fight on. I'm too old now. So my mama always believed in, you know how these church people go to church and all they believe in faith? You got to believe in faith. I don't believe in faith. You know what I believe in? When you go to the casino, do you take faith with you or do you take luck?
 I'm taking luck with me when I go to the casino. I don't want no faith, because faith let me down. I want luck. So one thing I want to do, I want to be proved wrong. I want to believe what my mother believed in, faith. So if you pass this, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to go to my mama's grave, and I'm going to tell my mom that she was right and I was wrong.
 Because you do have to have faith, not luck. But I'm going to tell you, when you walk into this place to me, then I forgot my rabbit foot. I should have brought it. I hope I can have faith in them. I'm not going to try to sugarcoat my talking. Just don't take this out on my kid. That's all I got to say. Well said. Thank you. Who wants to follow that?
 And I do apologize. I don't want to lose the quorum because I want to prove you wrong. So we're going to have to keep the testimony closer to three minutes. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Ted Willard, commissioners. My name is Tassanga Davis. I'm the granddaughter of Mama Julia Davis and Johnny Davis. And to me, it's a pleasure to come here before you today. Thank you.
 to be here with our family and for everyone to hear our story and our testament. And hopefully you can feel the passion from our family and our grandparents' legacy that they had a vision for and have instilled in us. And this legacy is still going on today. And
 This legacy is the legacy that we want to instill to all our girls and our family here today. So with passing this ordinance, that will continue this legacy. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Kayeen Talton Davis. I am married to Cleo Davis, Jr. Cleo and I have both, as our families have, resided in this city for quite a while.
 My story here in Portland, my family's story here in Portland, actually starts at the turn of the century. My great-grandfather owned a business here at the time where black folks were being chased out of town, and it was illegal for them to live here, much less own property.
 And so many times throughout Portland's history, it seems like that law has never gone away. You heard from Cleo about how hard it was for black people to purchase properties. There were things within the deeds saying it couldn't be owned, it couldn't be passed on, it couldn't live in the house, all these things. And what I will say to you is that one of the things that Cleo and I specialize in is looking at that history.
 is looking at how that history has affected Portland, and not only from the side of just the law side, but what does the black community look like that's living through situations like that? What does the black community look like where you're not allowed to eat in certain places? Well, you build what you can build. You go and you work with your family, you work with your community, you develop what you can develop. And so when you have the opportunity
 as a older woman to purchase a apartment building to try to build that up and build something for your family to create wealth within your family because isn't that what we're all supposed to do is to create wealth for our families that it might be passed on and that our children and their children might have something to start with and not start from the bottom but when you are
 or when you have that taken away from you. And as you heard from Mr. Davis, that it had some serious health effects for his mother. That it's not only, again, a physical issue, a monetary issue, it's a legacy issue. And what Cleo and I are trying to do, what the family is trying to do, is to resurrect.
 that legacy is to create a legacy in which not only is it a financial help for the family to create wealth, but also to create for the city of Portland a wealth of knowledge about the black community, about the black arts, and about what people have done within this community in a location that was formerly a cornerstone for the community.
 I'm not sure how many of you are familiar with the Cornerstone Inventory, but it is a list of homes within Portland that were significant historically to the black community. And I'm not sure how many of those still exist to this day. I know I haven't seen very many of them after looking at the list. And that's a shame because it's important. It's important to see where your grandparents grew up, where your parents were involved, and have a place to the stories. Thank you.
 Because without knowing the context, a lot of it gets lost. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not an angry old man now, though. Black man. I'm not an angry black man now. Sure. That's the first thing they say. Angry black man. The next three are Laquita Lanford, Peggy Moretti, and Maya Foti. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, Senators.
 I'm really here to support my community. And over the years, I have learned so much about the black Portland history when I returned to Portland in 2014. And I have engaged my community by what I have learned through historical bike rides, through community engagements.
 through reclaiming spaces in Alberta, all that I have learned. I have spoke before you all. I have served for you all. And I truly believe that this is important for the future of our children that sit behind me today. And there's just two things that I wanted to state and read, just two quotes from Martha Luther King.
 His birthday was yesterday, and this spoke to me when Cleo was speaking. And I just want to say it says, Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter. And the second quote is, The time is always right to do what is right. So I'm asking you, Mayor and Commissioners, to do what's right for our community,
 to continue having us come together and support each other with what it is that we need and to make change because we are a part of this historical change on a level of like we can go digital, we can do anything to support any one of us. And, yeah, I just wanted to ask you guys to do the right thing. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, and good to meet you, Commissioner Hardesty. I'm Peggy Moretti. I am the Executive Director of Restore Oregon. I'm here to urge your support of these requests today.
 I think it's so important to preserve the Mayo House and advance its new life as a cornerstone of African American heritage. And I want to acknowledge that we have a lot of work to do in the preservation community to support that effort in a more proactive way.
 But it's not every day that we have an opportunity to advance two important goals with one vote. I think we have the opportunity to advance the idea of density without demolition by moving a meaningful historic building and take a step towards community restoration by enabling this historic home to help preserve African-American heritage and create a place of memory, research, advancement, and art
 as their Facebook page says. We do urge you to please authorize the relocation of the Mayo House and all the necessary zoning adjustments to waive the system development fees so that this is more financially viable and ensure that it remains on the historic inventory so that it would potentially become eligible for other financial incentives.
 As you know, it's not easy to move a historic structure, as we all know. And I've heard there might be concerns about setting precedents with the system development waivers. But I think what this also points out is the need for more robust financial incentives for preserving cultural places in Oregon and the need for that state historic preservation tax credit we've talked about many times.
 I'm very happy to see that the city has placed that on the legislative agenda this year, so thank you very much for that. I think that that will support future projects like this and alleviate the need to make these special requests because there will be much more robust incentives available to us.
 to the next culturally significant place that needs to be preserved. So thank you very much. I really look forward to seeing how the story of the Mayo House is going to continue to expand and unfold. Thank you. My name is Maya Foti. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. Good afternoon.
 I'm the Vice Chair of the Portland Historic Landmark Commission, and I'm here to show support for this ordinance. I feel a little sheepish extolling the virtues of the historic house in light of recent testimony. I'm trying to convince you to pass this ordinance, but it's my job, so that's why I'm here. It would be a great benefit to the Elliott neighborhood and truly remarkable if this small house could be moved a third time.
 and used to serve residents of the neighborhood. The building is unique because of its history in the neighborhood, also for its Victorian features including an ornate offset curved front porch with detailed millwork, varied roof forms with fish scale shingles, and delicate wood detailing of the barge boards. While some of the original features are missing or altered, the majority are still intact. For the city to assist with accommodating the move by altering zoning changes and waiving certain charges would make this third move more viable.
 The cultural resource is unique and it is so important to retain this piece of architectural history of Elliott neighborhood so it can continue to enrich the streetscape and lives of the residents now and in the future.
 Finally, we'd like to emphasize, the Historic Landmark Commission would like to emphasize the importance of refining protections for locally designated resources to ensure they aren't demolished, and that they don't have to come with a last-minute emergency council hearing to save them from demolition, and also the importance of making financial incentives available to offset the cost for rehabilitation. Thank you. The last two who signed up are Edith Gillis and Brad Baker. Thank you.
 I haven't seen you for so long. Hello. Of course. Welcome back. My name is Edith Gillis, and I want my son to come to me and say, Mom, you were right, without waiting time in the grave, you were right to have faith in truth, love, principle. Mom, you were right to sacrifice and work to show up at city council to demand and do your part for justice. Yes.
 I want my mother, long dead, to be able to see someone that's carried forth the work with empathy for doing what would seem the impossible to bring about justice. When I was 18, my mother was killed with the same attitude where uncounted, we don't even know how many hundreds, we don't know how many people, Modocs and Klamaths were killed at the same location, the same exact way she was killed.
 with the saying, the only good engine is a dead engine. I want us to make this a precedent. I want us to make this a precedent that we restore the best of our heritage, our hope, our promise of justice, of well-made homes, of density, of community, of democracy. I want us to have this be a precedent for First Nation peoples.
 people of color, and I want you to adjust the map, the zoning, waive the fees, and I want us to get some better tax income from those folks who have been making money off of the redlining and injustice. Thank you, Eden. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Brad Baker. I'm here on behalf of the Elliott Neighborhood Association. I'm the chair of the Land Use Committee.
 We want to offer our support of the project. We're 100% behind it. There's not much I can add that hasn't already been said. It's going to be a great benefit to the neighborhood. It's going to right wrongs that were done to Cleo and his family. And so we just, yeah, we're all behind it and would love to see it happen. So please support his proposal. Thank you. Thank you.
 Does that complete testimony, Carla? That's all I'm saying, Bill. All right. With that, are there any other questions from council? Did you want to see any other staff members? Let's start with the amendment that was on the table. If we could call the roll on the amendment, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Now to the main motion as amended. Please call the roll.
 Fritz. Thank you to the Davis family for coming today. Like the Historic Landmarks Commissioner mentioned, I thought I was just coming to a discussion about a historic house, and instead you have really honoured us with your presence. I feel blessed that I was here to listen to your history, to understand more deeply and more personally the experiences that you have had and your family have had here in Portland. Thank you.
 And I'm just so impressed that you dared to hope that things would be different this time, because for centuries things have not been different. And I think the city has started to recognise that, and it's really tough for those who have been told no so many times and who have been...
 Dishonored so many times. So thank you also for changing the rules for everybody. We are going to do that, I'm sure. That you shouldn't have had to have come here on a Wednesday afternoon with your whole family, although I'm glad you did, in order to get something that we all agree is the right thing to do. And so I would like you to know that I think you will have changed the rules for everybody. And I appreciate your willingness to do that.
 I am mindful that the reason this house needs to be moved is because the site is going to be redeveloped. And that's what happened to your grandmother's house. The blight that was going to be this great new place that...
 the council thought was going to make things better. And so later this year, we're going to be looking at ways to add more housing in Portland. And I will be remembering that we need to also be careful not to encourage demolition of old homes, affordable homes, homes in general. And thank you for that.
 children, thank you so much for being so well behaved and quiet and sitting still. You're just a wonderful group of people and I want you to hear what I'm saying in terms of
 It's up to the next generation to fix the mistakes of the previous one. And even now, as you grow up, you will be called upon to fix climate change and all of the other things that my generation and the generations before have not done as well as we have made a mess of. And so I feel really honoured that I get to help fix the...
 appalling things that have happened here in Portland, not only in this, but in the other efforts that the city is working on. And so it's really wonderful that you came and you're participating and you are seeing, you are part of history now, even though you're such tender age.
 Thank you to Nan Stark for reaching out to the neighborhood in the first place and for knowing your neighborhood that you're assigned to. To Brandon Spencer Hartle, Matt Wickstrom, and Joe Zender for being the white allies who said yes, and that yes, we're going to help get this done. Thank you to Cynthia Castro on my staff. I'm really honored to vote aye. Fish. I had the same impression that Commissioner Fritz had when she started her remarks that...
 The briefing memo I got talked about zoning maps and comprehensive plan maps and had lots of gobbledygook and then an SDC waiver, and you get lost in the acronyms and all the legalisms. And yet what we've had today is a hearing when it's really – today's hearing has been about Portland's history, not so much its zoning code. And so I want to thank the family that took the time to come out and share the story with us. First to Mr. Davis Sr.,
 who said he was 78 years old. Well, my grandfather lived to 102, so in my family you'd be considered middle-aged. You're not going anywhere, sir. Just hang in there. You're at the younger end. I'm praying. I'm sorry that my wife Patricia couldn't be here. Patty's a historian, and the reason that we live in Portland, she's the first woman on her mother's side of the family to go to high school.
 and she got a job teaching history at Portland State. And the first big book that she worked on was former Senator A.V.L. Gordley's history. And A.V.L. Gordley wrote her book, and it says Patricia Schechter and A.V.L. Gordley, and they wrote it together. It was really an oral history, but they ended up sort of converting the oral history into the story and writing.
 There's so much of Avel's history and story that I could hear echoing in this chambers as you, Cleo, and your wife and others were telling your story. You know, it's very rare that we get to right a wrong within a generation. Now, I'm the longest serving member of this council, and I've served here for 10 years. But if I do the math, really the singular event that triggered all this, that brings us to this day, happened 34 years ago.
 And I don't remember who was sitting here, but it was a different council. 37 years ago. Pardon me? 37. 37. And I don't remember who was – I don't know offhand who was sitting here. But regardless, we have a chance to right a wrong within one generation. And we are a new council with a colleague that's made history with her election. One other comment. The $50,000 bond –
 that was a requirement that you couldn't meet and that ended up being part of the narrative. I want you to know that when we engage small contractors in inner Northeast, predominantly minority-owned contractors, what we to this day hear is that access to capital is the single biggest impediment to wealth creation among small contractors, but that the requirement of a bond is the biggest impediment to wealth creation.
 on projects is beyond the reach of a lot of emerging entrepreneurs, people of color. So here we are 37 years later, and we're still talking about a bond requirement, which has a nice neutral flavor, right? It sounds like a nice legal requirement. Who could object? Well, the people that could object to it are people that can't afford the bond. So how are you making an opportunity available to someone if you set a requirement that they can't meet? And what's the city's role in helping to fund those bonds?
 or helping to make a financial accommodation. There are good days and bad days in this job. I still mostly go home and tell my wife I'm surprised I get paid to do this work. But there are days when I feel like this chamber is elevated and I feel like something has happened that's beyond the mundane that we deal with as a council. And I think today is one of those days. And I am, as Commissioner Fritz noted, I'm very pleased that there were so many young people here to witness this.
 because it's important that they have hope. We talked about faith and luck, but hope is so important. You've got to have hope. And these young people are here today to see a system that maybe they've heard in their family didn't work very well one day, right or wrong. And I'm pleased to add my vote to right that wrong and to support this ordinance. And I proudly vote aye. Hardesty? Thank you. I want to start off by thanking you for the history lesson.
 When I moved to Portland January 1st, 1990, I would scratch my head sometime and go, what's this about, right? Because there was nobody calling you names to your face. There was no one doing anything directly to you as an individual. But it was very clear that we are still living our white supremacist legacy in Oregon.
 Over and over and over again, when development happens, African Americans are displaced. It's called progress is what they tell us it is. When 10,000 African American homeowners were displaced out of inner northeast Portland between 2000 and 2010, no one declared a housing emergency then. So I am so thrilled to have this front row here of these young, beautiful people
 I hope all girls, because I think I'm seeing all girls. Am I right? Okay, I want to apologize if there was a boy over there. Okay, it's just, okay. I want them to look up at this podium and know that in 20 years, you could be sitting right here. It took 167 years to make that happen, but let's not wait another 167 years before the next African-American woman is sitting in this seat. I want to say to your family, I am sorry, okay?
 for how you were treated by your city when you were trying to make an investment in your city. And unfortunately, your story I've heard over and over and over again in the almost 30 years I've lived here. It wasn't right then. It isn't right today. And I just wanted to tell you, Mr. Davis Sr., you didn't need your rabbit foot today.
 You came with the truth, and some days the truth wins out. I want to say to Junior, I felt your passion. I absolutely understand every word that you said and why you said it, and I thank you for it. I absolutely vote aye. Thank you, Daly.
 I want to thank the Davis family, first and foremost, for being here today, for your willingness to come back to City Hall, which I know took some fortitude, and to share your story. You have every right to be angry. You...
 to be skeptical of us and to seek redress and to be here without feeling it's a privilege or a pleasure. I can see how that would, it would not feel that way considering your history. Although none of us were here on this dais in 1984, nevertheless, we have a responsibility to,
 to bear witness to your testimony and truth-telling, and we have a responsibility to redress past wrongs. It's not enough to admit wrongdoing or apologize. We have to make amends, and I believe that this is a small gesture in that direction.
 It is a pleasure and a privilege to serve on this council and to serve this community at a time when we have a growing awareness of past wrongs and a willingness on this council to pursue remedy to those wrongs.
 I would be remiss in my duty as your friendly local arts commissioner if I didn't mention that Cleo Davis and Cain, yeah.
 Telton Davis are our longtime residents of Albina District, as we heard, but they also are renowned artists, and they're the team behind the historic Black Williams project. I want to invite everyone downstairs to view their installation, Blightsploitation, I like the name, which was conceived and created by the 2018-19 Archives Artist in Residence program, or through it.
 and is based on their research in the City of Portland Archives and Records Center. The focus of their residency is to explore ideas of civic engagement and recurrent themes of civil rights, housing, racial discrimination, and public projects as geared towards Portland's black community. It is on display on the first floor. I'm not sure how long it will be there, so please visit today if you're able. Thank you.
 Finally, this is an exciting moment. It's a win for historic preservation. It's a win for the local community who won't lose this beautiful building. It's a win for the city, and it's a win for the Davis family. So I hope y'all are going to celebrate somehow tonight. I, hopefully three times as a charm, and this house has found its final resting place.
 And I'm so excited to see it in its new home, to see its new purpose and its service to the black community. I vote aye. Weaver. Sometimes it doesn't pay to go last. This is one of those times. I really can't add anything to what my colleagues said except I have to add my voice to Commissioner Hardesty and apologize.
 on behalf of the city to the way your family was treated. It was wrong. It was an injustice. It was racist. It was mean-spirited. And, Cleo, I actually appreciate the fact that you sort of did the net present value of the lost opportunity to your family. I think you said it was about $2.5 million.
 And that's a story that is repeated over and over and over again. And in addition to the injustice and the deception and the racism that went into that kind of displacement, which, by the way, was sanctioned by our city's leaders, both in the public and in the private sector,
 There were true economic prosperity costs, and there were true wealth generation costs that manifest themselves to this day. And that's the important lesson for me that we have to remember. This isn't something where we can say, oh, well, you know, it's 2019. We don't do that anymore.
 You know, this problem doesn't exist anymore. That was back then, back in the day, decades ago. Well, here's the reality. The reality is from an economic perspective, what happened decades ago has an impact on the generational wealth of African Americans today. Okay.
 in this community, and that in turn impacts opportunities around prosperity, job development, education, even health outcomes. It all comes back in full circle. So you were right to be here and to call it out and speak, as Commissioner Hardesty said, speak truth to power. So you have my apology. It's not worth much. Yeah, it's worth it.
 Actions are worth a lot more. I do not believe that through this action we can actually make up for what happened in the past. I don't actually personally believe that, so I'm not going to say it. But I do believe we can pay it forward. I do believe that through our actions and through our leadership and through our commitment, we can make it.
 move in a different direction. And you've provided us sort of the perfect symbolic template to do that by having three generations of the family here, having the kids here to be part of this. And at the end of the day, I'm going to remember this as one of the most positive things I have personally experienced
 had the opportunity to participate in as a member of this city council in over two years. I see this as hugely important and hugely positive. And Mr. Davis Sr., I don't know how many times I'm going to go back and listen to your testimony, but it is many times.
 You gave us a lot to build from, and I'm appreciative of that. I always love it when I come to council, and I think I'm going to – I'll just confess this. It's not always thrilling. A lot of the stuff we do here is really boilerplate. It's down in the weeds. I agree with my colleagues who said they thought – And I thought I'd talk to you about mumbling under your breath. There you go. There you go. Yeah, we –
 On paper, this looked like it was going to be another one of those hearings, right, colleagues? Another one of those hearings. But we talked about some really lofty issues here. We heard about hope, which is truly important. We heard about justice, which is truly important. And the part that really hit home with me, Mr. Davis Sr.,
 is the conversation about faith. And that's something I come back to personally a lot because we are in a time where it is actually too easy to question one's faith and the way things are. And the way you reconnect with that faith or that sense of hope or that sense of optimism in the future is through attachment to the community. It's through being part of something and belonging to something larger.
 And what the black community in Portland experienced was an intentional systematic disconnection and dislocation that also has manifestations for today. But I see this societally as well. And you see people's confidence in institutions and even confidence maybe in self and belief, that special spark of faith under siege.
 And you talked so lovingly about your mother and her experience here in this chamber. And it's so disappointing for me to hear those stories. I hear them a lot, unfortunately. But it's so disappointing for me to hear that story and to think she came here with you, a young man, all excited, and left ultimately very disappointed to the point where she felt the need to go to the hospital, unfortunately.
 So I am really quite pleased that we get to do something bigger here than just support the House move. And, by the way, thank you to the Davises for Kyan and Cleo for taking the lead on trying to get this going. And I'd be remiss if I didn't thank Karen Carlson and Rick Michelson also for their hard work and the Bureau's great work. But isn't it ironic? Yeah.
 that at the end of the day, the most meaningful thing we're doing here today isn't moving a house or approving a zoning change. Mr. Davis, we're sending you to speak to your mom, faith having been restored. I vote aye. Yeah, we'll take a break. We'll take five minutes. My son is home by himself. Patty's going to stay at work. Okay.
 Yes. All right. We are back in session. Thank you, everyone. We are now on item number 48. Accept report from Portland United Against Hate Coalition on outcomes of 2017-18 special appropriations grants. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, this next report...
 from Portland United Against Hate, which is a grant-funded program currently run through the Office of Community and Civic Life. Today we will hear from three panels that consist of program staff, grant recipients, and program partners. With that, I'd like to call up the first panel, Carrie Coe from the Office of Community and Civic Life, Rabbi Deborah Kolodny...
 from As the Spirit Moves Us, and Casey Jama from Unite Oregon. Welcome everyone, and please state your name for the record before you begin your testimony or presentation. Hello, is your mic on? Can you hear me? There we go. Okay, there we go. Great. Hello everyone. My name's Carrie Coe, I'm with Office of Community and Civic Life and the program coordinator for Portland United Against Hate.
 First, thank you very much for your ongoing support of this work and this program and for having us here today. As Commissioner said, we'll have three panels to offer some feedback and reporting on the outcomes of our grants. So first, this panel is going to share some big picture successes. The second panel will focus on the outcomes of the grants.
 And the third panel will share testimony about how PUA impacts the work of communities with our partners, including speakers from the Portland Bureau of Transportation and Southeast Uplift.
 So let me start by grounding us quickly. Desiree Melton, a black woman and an associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, wrote a recent article titled, Why Report Injustice When Being Justly Treated Is Unimaginable? In her article, she explains, if our imagination is full of the ugly ways that authorities interact with people like us,
 If it's cluttered with doubt and distrust we know we are likely to face, then we might be unable to even conceive of doing anything more than disclosing an injustice to a person we trust, let alone turning to authority.
 Furthermore, she suggests that expecting black women who have been harassed, assaulted, threatened to report is asking them to do something Herculean, to override an overwhelming number of experiences in which they have been doubted, disbelieved, ignored, treated unjustly, and told to keep silent. This leaves our imagination blunted and a void where justice should be.
 Professor Melton articulates the experience of many PUA coalition members, and this perspective is one of the many that guided our work in this recent grant. And the creation of the pilot hate incident tracking tool that you'll hear about today.
 The challenge of addressing hate and hate violence is complex and woven into the very social and cultural fabric of our nation. This reality is a call to action for those with influence and resources to work with those most impacted to find sensible solutions.
 The report today will focus on the outcomes of the grants and PUA's work over the last 18 months and will show that Portland United Against Hate has taken the task of imagining justice and sensible solutions seriously.
 As you well know, Portland United Against Hate is a 64-member coalition of community organizations, neighborhood groups, and the City of Portland's Office of Community and Civic Life, with a mission to track, respond to, and prevent acts of hate while providing the support that our communities need.
 In the 2017-18 budget, City Council set aside $350,000 in special appropriations funding for competitive grants to do capacity building, training, and to pilot a proof-of-concept data project to demonstrate the feasibility of a community-led incident tracking tool with the wraparound support resources built in.
 13 grant partners were selected, and since July 2017, they have collectively exceeded the goals of their projects. The core outcomes are the pilot of the hate incident tracking tool called Report Hate PDX, the creation of tools and resources to combat hate, and an increased capacity within communities to respond to, interrupt, and be prepared for hate incidents. So we're going to take a second to look at each of these.
 In September 2018, PUA launched Report Hate PDX, an online and in-person tool for tracking hate incidents and providing resources. I'm going to quickly review it and go to the website, but I would encourage you to look at it further and invite us in to talk about it with your staff if you like. So, there we go.
 So this is the website, reporthatepdx.com. Using this, anyone can report an incident online. There's a reporting feature that takes you to a form.
 And you can also be connected to report in person with one of PUA's 13 partner organizations who were grantees. And they can act as a support in reporting or in getting access to resources. You can also get a variety of resources through the site. And we're intending it to be sort of a one-stop shop for what to do when a hate incident happens.
 This site is the beta version that was created during the grant cycle and moving forward you can expect an updated version at the end of January with a few added capabilities and you'll hear from Marcus Mundy the executive director of the coalition of communities of color who's the lead organization on the project as part of the second panel.
 So during the grant cycle with this very limited release of the website, over 138 incidents were reported. And the PUA Coalition provided resources and support to many of those people and communities.
 One example is a nonprofit reported that a community garden youth volunteer had showed a hate-oriented hand sign in a photo at an event that they held. We supported that staff in understanding more about the hand signals of hate groups, of thinking through some of the approaches to having conversations with the families.
 and to connect them with resources for both the family and for the staff at that nonprofit. Carrie, could you just move the cursor so this isn't showing in the screen? Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you.
 Immediately confronting white supremacist action, even something that can seem almost small, like a hand signal, is crucial to creating an environment where that kind of behavior is unacceptable and where diverse communities feel welcome. Frontline staff need this kind of support, both in nonprofits but also here in the city. PUA makes those connections and can be that resource. Okay.
 The second outcome was the creation of tools and resources, including things like a rapid response toolkit and a trauma-informed best practices kit, among other things. On the second panel, Shayla Mosley from POIC will talk more about the outcomes and show a video about youth and hate violence that POIC made during their grant.
 You can see some examples of the interrupting hate action cards in English and Somali, Arabic and Spanish. They're also available in Chinese and Vietnamese. All of these resources are available on PUA's website and also through me if you'd like physical versions.
 The third major outcome was increased capacity within communities to respond to, interrupt, and be prepared for hate incidents. Together, the grant partners held 152 trainings for more than 2,000 people, did outreach and engagement to almost 10,000 people in 11 languages, and supported 38 youth in leading anti-hate programming.
 This kind of capacity building to communities most affected by hate decreases the impact of hate violence. It allows support for those targeted to heal and it promotes prevention. A training isn't just people in a room, it's tools, it's skills and resources to practically equip vulnerable community members.
 Ezekiel Mbabu and Salat Ibrahim will share their experience with community capacity building and hate incidents, also as part of the second panel.
 The final element of PUA's work that I'll share is the long-term vision. So the coalition goals led the initial grant-making two years ago, and by mid-2018, the coalition was ready to assess the work and plan next steps. Nearly half the coalition members worked over several months to develop a strategic direction for PUA's work and to help answer the question, what is PUA's role in ending hate violence?
 The coalition decided that over the next two years they'll focus on community capacity building, rapid response, and policy and data work. You can find full details or more details about this in your packet on page 34 and 35, sort of a summary of the work that we did.
 These grants help to launch incredible work, but the coalition is far from done, as this issue is far from over. In the next six months, we are going to do a public launch of Portland, of Report Hate PDX,
 including an upgrade of the tool to make it mobile friendly, add multilingual capacity. We're going to do an expansion on the capacity building work that we do, more trainings, more outreach, and deeper community engagement work, training people to be de-escalators on public transit, working with those targeted by hate, doing some upstream thinking with faith leaders in the community, and supporting more youth to be leaders.
 Only to name a few items. So this is the work of Portland United Against Hate and the outcomes of the recent grant cycle. The rest of the speakers today will speak to more about this and their experiences. Before we bring more people up, though, I'd like to introduce Casey Jama, Executive Director of Unite Oregon and a key partner in the PUA Coalition.
 Unite Oregon is in the middle of and has organized a crucial listening tour around the state with Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum, and Casey will speak to some of the strengths of our partnership in this national moment. But first, Rabbi Deborah Kolodny, founder of As the Spirit Moves Us, an active member on PUA's advocacy team, which I'm sure you're all very familiar with, and a steering committee member at PUA.
 at Pu'ah. And so thank you again for all of this, and I'll leave it at that. Thank you. As Carrie said, I'm Rabbi Deborah Kolodny from As the Spirit Moves Us, and I thank you for the opportunity to speak with all of you today.
 I was really struck that the afternoon, there seems to be a theme this afternoon of restoring faith, which is impossible to do without taking concrete operational action. And I really think that a huge part of the work that PUA has been doing is restoring faith in this community and in this city and in the community organizations that serve those who want this to be a safe and livable place. Thank you.
 It has been a trying and at times devastating two years. We all know that the 2016 presidential election unleashed a horrifying stream of hate in this country. I remember the first Office of Neighborhood Involvement Budget Advisory Committee meeting after that election, and Commissioner Fritz, I know you do too.
 We were going about business as usual and I said something like, I'd like to know how much federal funding the city might lose for maintaining our sanctuary status because I want to see a plan to replace every dollar. So there's no question that Portland is safe for immigrants. And the entire conversation shifted. Thank you.
 A group of community-facing organizations who had been meeting shared how much more support their constituents needed because of a dramatic uptick in hate incidents. That group expanded after that meeting, and the Portland United Against Hate Coalition was born. Thank you.
 We've been working for over two years to compassionately and effectively serve those targeted by hate, to train people in their rights and in how to de-escalate situations before they become violent, and to create an accessible trauma-informed data collection system so the information that supports our policy decisions is exponentially more accurate than the FBI or PPB's statistics.
 The partnership we've created between community organizations who bring trust with their constituents and long-term relationships and expertise and a proven track record of success, and the city, which has a vested interest in safe and livable communities of belonging, has not only increased safety already, it has brought us to the moment where we can soon bring forward real solutions to the epidemic of hate. Thank you.
 With the full-fledged launch of our Report Hate PDX data tracking tool in a few weeks, which has already provided information on 138 incidents in about the same time frame that the PPB has handled only 18 hate crimes, we'll be able to see which communities are most targeted, who the perpetrators are, and what tactics they're using.
 This can not only give direction to law enforcement, but more importantly, it can show us which communities most urgently need transformational interventions to end hate from taking root, and which communities need the most safety and social support work, not to mention culturally and trauma-informed therapeutic care. And we're just getting started. I'd like to share a prediction.
 Our work is far from over. As long as the current federal administration is in office, hate will continue to escalate. People will feel increasingly emboldened to translate national rhetoric to local violence. Data supports this view. The FBI, which has a huge under-reporting problem, found 2017 the third most hateful year since it began collecting statistics in 1992.
 Observers of this crisis agree that it will last until at least two or three years after the current administration is out of office, because replacing the elected haters in our federal government will trigger a backlash that is swift and fierce. Here in Oregon, we have a particularly virulent brew of what I call domestic terrorism, concocted from a perfect storm of racism and anti-indigenousness that was embedded into the founding of our state.
 We've seen almost two centuries of white nationalists organizing and an unfortunate failure of law enforcement to end their reign of terror. So Portland's challenge is unique, and our solutions must tap into every resource we have, which is exactly what the PUA Coalition brings. Without ongoing support from both the community and the city, with ongoing support of both the community and the city, we can permanently turn the tide. Together we can.
 Today you'll hear about the incredible work of a diverse coalition working to do what some might consider impossible. On a shoestring budget, we've accomplished so much in such a short time. Tangible outcomes that we can all be proud of and community building that holds this city together. Together we can keep going. Together we will keep going.
 PUA's members share with the city a moral imperative to continue this effort. We're grateful for our partnership.
 to all the commissioners for showing up against hate, and specifically to Commissioner Udalli's unflagging leadership, to Commissioner Fritz for helping us launch, to Commissioner Hardesty in partnering to provide interrupting hate workshops to the Portland NAACP chapter, to the Mayor for your past and we hope future willingness to include funding and special appropriations.
 We urge the city to eagerly invest in our long-term success by funding this work for years to come. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Harastee. Congratulations for your victory. And so I'm not saying that in public, so thank you for your leadership. And thank you all, Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Udeli. My name is Casey Chama. I'm the executive director of Unite Oregon.
 I want to thank you all and the Mayor for your investment and support for the Portland United Against the Hate Coalition. United Oregon is a very proud member of this coalition and we've been working collaboratively for the last few years in order to address the hate issues and hate crimes in our city. Our community feels impact for your support and your leadership.
 In this political climate, we are facing a national emergency. I would hope our government should declare a national emergency on hate crimes and hate incidents rather than purgated crimes, instead of shutting down our government. I want to share with you a few incidents that are personally impactful to me.
 Overnight in September 2017, two adult males came to campus on Menlo Park Elementary School and spray-painted red-seized floors on the exterior walls and doors of the building, as well as setting a fire on the external border party. That's where my two children go to school.
 On October 2, 2017, two adult males, later identified as the same individuals who attacked the Millau Park, sprayed, painted, resisted slurs on the exterior walls and undergrounds of the three more David Douglas Elementary Schools, Ventura Park, Mill Park, and Lincoln Park. On October...
 On December 3rd, 2017, racist graffiti and slurs were found sprayed painted on exterior walls on Alice Ode Middle School. Suspects were not identified. In 2016, 19-year-old Cornell Malik Bruce Jr. was run over and killed by well-known white supremacists. How many of us know his name?
 How many of us remember his story and how he died? That's about five minutes away from my home. United Oregon has been working on hate crimes and hate issues for a while. I myself am a member of the task force created by the Attorney General, and recently we held two listening sessions statewide, one here in Portland and one in Medford, Oregon. Both were packed packed.
 Both the time we were slaughtered was overrun because there were so many stories to be shared. This is a time for our communities to come together. The pain and the suffering that the community are experiencing is underreported. As the statistics indicate, in 2017, 17% of national data hate crimes increased. That's underreporting. I can tell you in my own office
 We closed the doors of our office because people walked in and started threatening our own offices. And we have to create a safety plan. And that safety plan included shutting, locking the doors. And if you have to come to our office now, you have to call. And that's kind of what we are dealing with. My own staff member, as she was driving, was targeted while in Powell Boulevard.
 One of the clear indications of these histories are telling us is that sometimes community members are so terrified that they do not report the appropriate people in this community. In conclusion, I'm not telling you anything that you know, you don't know already. What I would like to ask you is to continue to support on poor coalition and the work that they have been engaging in.
 We are in crossroads in this country and in this community and this state. What we do, the actions we take will determine what kind of community we want to be and how we want to preserve our dignity and justice for all. Thank you so much. Thank you everyone. Our second panel is on grant reporting.
 Marcus Mundy from Coalition of Communities of Color, Shayla Mosley from Portland Opportunity Industrialization Center, or POIC, Ezekiel Mbabu from the Lutheran Community Services Northwest, and Salat Ibrahim from African Youth Community Organization. Please come to the test. Well, my staff has decided this is called the testimony table, but I'm convinced there's a more official name for it.
 And if anyone can figure it out, I will buy you a cup of coffee. Where's Carla when we need her? She would know the answer to this question. Welcome, everyone. And please state your name for the record before beginning your piece of the presentation. All right. My name...
 My name is Marcus Mundy. I'm with the Coalition of Communities of Color. It's a pleasure to be presenting before you again, commissioners, and for you, Commissioner, for the first time. Thank you for welcoming us. Thank you for lending us your Civic Life Bureau. They have been great partners in this work, and they're a joy to work with and very supportive, so you all should know that as well.
 I'm here to talk about, only five slides or so from me, about the reporting hate PDX.com goals. You know, we're here to, we're going to be documenting what's happening in our communities, the goals of Report Hate, providing resources and support from culturally specific communities within the tracking tool, and we collect relevant data for informed decision making and policy.
 ReportHatePDX.com, some of the features, we have a community-vetted survey instrument. And this was formed in partnership with all of our members, but also the Coalition of Communities of Color has a Research Justice Institute. So a community-vetted survey instrument is important because it relies on the community to participate, to give feedback,
 to help develop the tool that's used. One thing that we always say is that we are the best arbiters of our own experiences, our own lived experiences. And so this tool reflects that. Everybody who was part of this process contributed. This tool captures various types of incidents, reports various types of perpetrators.
 and it provides a very safe platform and safety you'll hear thematically throughout. There's multiple avenues to report these hate crimes and incidents.
 When the tool goes live, it will have an anonymous online component to it so people feel safe reporting, and it will continue to have what we had in our pilot project, which is trusted community organizations and leaders that they can report that information to. People have to feel comfortable reporting the information that they do, and this tool was built with that in mind. Right.
 There's a resource guide indexed by the type of services and geography. And, you know, one thing you should know about how they report and where it is, where it is is it's happening in every quadrant of the city. We've had reports from northwest, northeast, southwest, southeast, and north Portland that were part of this 138 incidents that you'll hear about, in addition to which,
 In some of your on this slide here, 138 incidents from June to November of 2018, but the bulk of those incidents, 98% occurred just in the last three months of 2018. We had a couple of incidents prior to that that were reported as part of this overall, but these numbers here are very illustrative in that you can see the numbers. 33%
 involved discrimination, unfair treatment, 22% harassment. So you know those numbers, but there's a lot more numbers that are in the detailed reports that you all have received. Fifty-four percent of the people that reported were our Latinx brothers and sisters.
 13% of the people that reported were black or African immigrants that reported. And neither one of those is reflective of our proportion of people in the city. So it's disproportionately affecting certain zones of people in the city. In addition to which, not only is it all over the city, every type of incident,
 What's reported. So there's a term we use called perceived discrimination or how it's reported. So a lot of these aren't necessarily crimes that people can be prosecuted for, but they let you know directionally what's happening in your city. So there are a lot of incidents that need to be reported, that need to be clarified, even though we're not going to have criminal referrals as a result of that.
 Again, any online tool must have a trusted organizational interface or know that even if it's anonymized and people can report from where they are, that it is a safe tool to report. These tools take time to integrate and train and let our community know that they exist, but we're taking that time. And with the city's continued funding, because I would offer that,
 We are appreciative of the initial grant, but we hope that the grant funding continues.
 We combine the tool with education and outreach, and not only does this increase the use of the tool, but validates the experiences of harm. You all know from your own experiences, just like the census is underreported, just like incidents of sexual violence to women and others is unreported, the people who are affected the most by these hate crimes –
 are generally those who least report. And there's a whole slew of reasons for that, but that's why this tool and this coalition is so important to making sure that we don't forget that. Again, the power of this tool is the broad definition of hate incident. It doesn't mean that it's a crime, but it's a hate incident. It can be chronicled, and you four...
 Five, you policymakers can advocate for and make policies that even if they don't make something a crime, they can make sure that it's a better climate for all of us to live in Portland. Some logistics, our launch is January 31st. The platform will be available at that time in English and Spanish. We hope later on to be available in other languages. We will continue to grow, strengthen, and make it mobile ready for the public.
 and we're going to continue our communications to increase the use of the platform. Again, we had 136 incidents reported in three months, and that was with limited distribution using just our community partners. It wasn't as widespread as this new offering is going to be. And so I would expect, you know, not hope, but I would expect that we'll see a lot of activity when it first rolls out, and I would hope that we have a lot of support from,
 from the city as it does roll out. Marcus, could I ask you a couple of questions? And I don't mean to put you on the spot, but there's a thorny issue here that I want to discuss and see how we can close the gap. Okay.
 In the previous testimony, it was made clear and it's made clearer in the report that there are a number of people, particularly people of color, recent immigrants to the community, who are reluctant to report to the police bureau for a variety of reasons. People have different perceptions of the police bureau, and some people just do not feel comfortable. So part of my broader agenda around public safety is to increase the trust between the public
 and the police bureau that serves that public. And that, of course, requires recruiting people from the community. It requires training. It requires setting expectations. It requires accountability and holding people to those expectations. But I think we all acknowledge that is a cultural shift, and it takes some time. So we sort of have that arena.
 Over here, we have this tool that could potentially collect data, and it sounds like you're talking about it goes beyond what is technically the definition of a hate crime. First of all, do I have that correct? That is correct. Okay, so how do we –
 So I guess I have sort of two broad questions. Question number one is rather than creating a, you know, since we're still all the city here and our resources are limited, rather than creating two completely separate and potentially duplicative systems, right,
 over the long term, how do we bring these two things together? The trust building, the communications, the training, the accountability, the expectations, and the tool you're trying to create on one hand in terms of using that resource together.
 And the flip side of that question is if there are people who, for whatever reason, don't feel comfortable reporting to the police, but they report to you, how does that crime ever get addressed? How does it become adjudicated? Who does it? How does the data end up with the police bureau where that data is then reported to us? Yeah.
 as a city council, how do we bring these pieces together given that there's this current lack of trust? Well, I'm an imperfect vessel to answer that question, but I have some immediate responses, and then you can check with your own team at OCCL and some smarter people on these panels.
 On the question about how do we make one system and come together, my answer there would be gradually, just because these systems are built and this whole process was built that they could come to trusted community partners. That's where they're comfortable. So I believe it still would have to start there. And then, of course, we would work with PPB and the city and other people to try to morph into one system.
 as far as the reporting. And again, people can tell me if I'm wrong, but as far as the reporting part of it, when they go to trusted partners, they can reveal as much or as little. So some of our trusted partners keep in their vaults
 you know, the name of the person who reported, the information of the incident, the date, the time. They have all that information. When it goes into the database, it is anonymized and de-identified. However, if the police really do want to get involved with an investigation to remediate something, they can come back to the trusted organization who can then reach out to the individual and say, this time they want to act.
 are you willing to have them contact you? There's conduits for that to happen within the framework. So there is currently that opportunity. Right. Now, some people will absolutely...
 put their name when they do it online from their own computer or the library, whatever, you won't be able to track that person. But for those that come into the organizations that they trust and know that their information won't be inordinately shared, then they have a way to go back to the organization who can then go back to that person. So there are conduits that exist. Okay, and that's a thorough answer. I just want to make sure there's no grounds for misunderstanding, that if somebody believes...
 If they go onto the system and they log in and they do share information and it is a hate crime, there's no chance for them to misunderstand that they just reported a hate crime when, in fact, there may never be a closed loop to the police bureau at all, right?
 That is true, but I hope, and what I think I've heard from some of the people, again, who have been longer involved in this than I have, is that, you know, the data will be regularly and readily published. And so even people that submitted things anonymously, they'll be able to see their number –
 their data captured in the numbers. And if they feel as they get more comfortable that things are moving in the process, they can come back and let one of their trusted community members know that, yes, I was the one that reported this. I am now ready to elevate it. I see they're starting to address some issues of community. And again, these hate crimes span gender and religion and ethnicity
 Sexual orientation, we've had the whole gamut reported just in that little three-month period. And the value I'm trying to get to here, and I appreciate what you're doing in the data collection, I think is critically important. So I want to be very clear, I strongly support it. Thank you. We've had testimony as recently as even this morning.
 where people believe they have said something or reported something or made contact with the appropriate authorities, and then it doesn't get acted on because actually they haven't made contact with the appropriate authorities. And so I just want to make sure that at every step possible, we make it really, really clear that if people expect a follow-up presentation
 particularly from the police bureau, there has to be direct contact with the bureau. And I realize some people aren't comfortable with that, and that is certainly their decision to make. But I don't want the opposite to happen where somebody steps forward and think that the police are going to respond, and then they never do.
 because then that even further erodes public trust in the bureau. I am fairly certain that particularly for the participants in this program, the community organizations, and you have the list,
 They have been trained. They make it very clear to people, we can take your name and report it, or we can take it anonymously. But even though they're reporting it anonymously, they still take the name. They have the contact information, so people do have an opportunity to come back around. Excellent. I appreciate it. Thank you for your responsiveness. And I'd just like to add, I absolutely share the concern of the mayor. I think these...
 processes are daunting in the best case scenario, but for someone who is traumatized and stressed out and not knowing where to turn, I think it could, I haven't been walked through this process myself. Perhaps I should. We could do a mock interview.
 walk through. I want to ensure that there's no confusion about what the end result is, but also just highlight the value of capturing these hateful incidents that don't rise to the criminal level because it gives us a fuller picture of the true climate in the community, which is not good for a lot of our community members. And I also think we
 need to get clear about what constitutes a crime. Because something may be a hateful incident, may not be a hate crime, but if someone's being menaced and feels that they are under threat of violence, that is a crime.
 So I think it's really important that we and the Bureau understand these distinctions. Because anecdotally, I have heard stories about people being threatened, having their, you know, violence threatened against them in the larger context of a hateful incident and being told that's not a hate crime. There's nothing we can do. Thank you.
 Well, and that very thing, I think, lends itself to what the mayor said about how can we continue to work together as community and the city and your police bureau and that. You can help us with those clarifications. You can help us help the community that we outreach to.
 My over-limit presentation, thank you very much, is over. But what I will just say, and you all commissioners should know this, that our group commends you for this effort. There are not a lot of cities doing this work, having these conversations at the city council level. So you don't always hear it, but you should hear that the community supports this effort, and they appreciate you commissioners making this happen. Thank you. All right.
 Commissioner Hardesty, yes, please. I think this might be more of a question for you, Mayor. It's my understanding that Portland Police does not investigate hate crimes, that the FBI, in fact, is the law enforcement agency that investigates hate crimes. So I was a bit confused by your statement. Yeah, so it was really the front door in. People typically will call the Portland Police. They'll call...
 I should call your bureau first, the Bureau of Emergency Communications. That will be shuttled to the police bureau and then to the FBI. That's my understanding. Yeah, my understanding is that Portland Police actually just says we don't investigate hate crimes. You have to contact the FBI. So I would be surprised if they did anything around hate crimes. I am done. Good afternoon. My name is Shayla Mosley. Hi.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udeli, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Hardesty, and Mayor, Mr. Wheeler. Thank you for being here. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you guys today. I'm a parent-parent mentor with Community Healing Initiative. I've been involved with the POIC Community Healing Initiative for three years. The program assists having families with youth involved in the juvenile justice system.
 The organization has been in the community for over 30 years. I am grateful that they have provided my family with guidance and support while my son, Mike Hale, entered the juvenile justice system. I am now a peer parent mentor who assists with other parents who are experiencing what I've gone through. On May 11, 2018, my son and three of his friends were visiting the Vancouver Mall.
 They noticed the truck with the Confederate flag and the image of Donald Trump in the middle. They began to engage the occupants who responded by exiting the truck and chasing them. My son was caught by one of the men who was found to be a member of the Proud Boy, a local white supremacist group. He was assaulted by this individual.
 To add insult to injury, Vancouver Mall Security apprehended my son as the aggressor. He was locked up for something that he did not initiate. Based on this experience, he has experienced trauma and is struggling to the terms, struggling of coming to the terms with the incident. With the support of POIC, it can provide education of hate reporting and outreach for the African American community.
 With our outreach materials, phone line brochures, contact card, website, and social media campaign and video, we can reach out to many more community members on what a hate crime is and how to report it. Thank you today for your time. Thank you.
 And so could I just ask maybe sort of as a follow-up to the question, what is your advice to people? If they're a victim of a hate crime, what do you recommend they do? I recommend that they report it to someone that they trust so that way we can go about trying to...
 figure out if it's actually a hate crime or if it's just a gesture and then go from there. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I'm curious, what was the outcome for your son? Well, they charged him, and then after we showed them the videos and stuff, they ended up dropping it. Excellent. Thank you. And I think I'm supposed to play you a video right now.
 Hate crimes for African Americans are underreported because, as we say, black lives matter. They don't. To the folks that are committing the crimes and folks in power that can make a difference. Just people being biased. Growing up, there's been a lot of experience dealing with more racial slurs. We're late 80s.
 when a young Ethiopian gentleman was coming home from work and he was beaten to death by a group of white skinheads. One of the perpetrators of the crime happened to be on my football team in high school.
 I started to notice the cats he was hanging out with, and then eventually, sometime later, he was convicted for the murder in Southeast Port. So-called routine stop turned into an incident where I, you know, don't get to see my children. All the stuff that I've gone through is not okay, and all this time I've been thinking it's my fault.
 or I could have done something. I know my son is traumatized. He doesn't want to say it. He's 18 now. He doesn't want to say it or admit it or don't even know what he's feeling. But he's just like, it's over with. I don't want to talk about it. I don't care. I'm done with it. Leave it alone. And generally that young people will lose some part of their personhood, some part of their dignity and self-respect because they're engaging or having to engage someone else's hate.
 And unfortunately, that level of trauma then comes out and manifests itself in sometimes in very destructive ways. There are microaggressions now. It happens so often, so it makes you think, did this happen? Am I sensitive? Am I crazy? It makes us question who we are because it's a part of America's DNA. But in the end, we're still dealing with
 hate crime. Nationally, hate crimes are on the rise and there is data to support that. From my perspective, I see a spike in hate crimes. Um...
 Good news is that there's a lot more attention in trying to combat hate crimes. And try to understand, like, it has to be something deeper besides what the action is, but it has to be something causing the action. If any crime is perpetrated against you, if somebody does something to you and they do it and let you know they've done it because of what you look like,
 because of how you speak, because of where they think you're from, because of a perceived physical ability or disability, because of the language you speak, because of religious or symbolic wear that you have on, that's a hate crime. And I found that people don't report because they don't believe anything's going to be done about it. A lot of times we accept the fact that that's just the way it is. I think people are scared that we don't have a voice.
 And so that's maybe why we don't speak up about the little things. And that's why things like what happened at Hollywood Mac Station became so devastating. If you witness a hate crime, I think it's still your responsibility to report it, to report what you've seen. I still have conversations with people and they relate a story. And my question is, did you report it?
 If it goes unreported, our society considers it as not happening. If you don't report it, then there's no learning from the experience. So what do you do if you need to report a hate crime? First thing you can do is document to the best of your ability what you saw happen, where were you at, what facts you know, and get those things down. One thing you can do is contact our support line, parent hotline, at 971-352-7000.
 6822. You can report it and we can work with it, but if we don't name it, we can't change it. And we should speak up on what we see in front of us, whether that's someone being watched at a grocery store just because the color of their skin, or that's someone being called out because they're wearing a hijab on the max. I think that's probably the biggest hurdle is some people believe this is really not a problem.
 And therein lies, you know, we can't move forward until we accept that, in fact, there is a problem. So by reporting it either on a hotline or through the city of Portland is very important so that they know there are communities that are at risk for hate. Remember, this is not a substitute for filing a police report. And if this is an emergency, dial 911. Now I'm reaching out.
 And now I'm getting the help that I need. And I encourage everyone else who's going through similar situations, whether that has to do with being abused at school and dealing with hate or being abused at home and it filtering into school life. I encourage it. Well, that answered a lot of questions. We should have just played that first. We wanted to get our video. Good afternoon, Ms. Mayor and members of the city council.
 Thank you for the opportunity of listening to the community's testimony about hate crimes and bias incident crimes. My name is Ezekiel Mbabu. I'm a crime victim advocate with Lutheran Community Services Northwest in Portland. I'm originally from the Democratic Republic of Congo. I moved in the U.S. in 2011 and have lived in North Portland for seven years.
 As a program that already provides victim advocacy services to vulnerable populations, including refugee and immigrant communities in the area, we have seen a need for education to our new neighbor regarding what hate crime is. People sometimes come from other countries where there are different standards around what is acceptable or tolerated. And many of the people we work with
 have been surprised to learn that many of the common experiences are something that, as a society, we know is unacceptable and might be a crime. By providing education to people so they understand
 what head incidents are or are not, we help empower victims and communities. We have worked hard to create materials for people in variety of languages. As we know, language barrier can be an obstacle for people in accessing support, and have done outreach to over 1,400 people.
 And we have seen that having a coalition with a variety of partners has been critical in reaching different targeted groups. The POA Coalition as a whole has done outreach to 10,000 people in our community. The POA Coalition is working on collecting hate crime data so we can do a better job understanding and dealing with this problem. But our priority is to providing support to communities.
 especially where otherwise there may not be much support, being a point of contact for the vulnerable community. I would like to tell my short story to support my above allocation. As an immigrant family from Congo that moved in North Portland and have experienced hate crimes and bias incident crimes, after we moved in our house, a group of teenagers would come several times and spit at my front door.
 putting water on the door and ring the doorbell. When I would come out to check, they would run and shout, African, go back to Africa. In African culture, spitting at my door is the same as spitting on my face and is the ultimate way to dismiss me and my family. I think even in the U.S., spitting on someone or their property is an extremely disrespectful act.
 Even so, it happened several times. Later on, I was told that the spit on the door meant hate. And then came the attack on my children. They bullied my children and tried to provoke them to a fight. My family did not know what to do and whom to turn to. We got frustrated and traumatized, and my children got scared. In the school, another scenario happened to my 11th grade son.
 His classmates will tell him face to face, go back to Africa. When the boy had enough, he reacted by a punch. Unfortunately, he was sent home for two days and nothing was done to the one who provoked him. As a parent, how would you feel if they do it to your children?
 Like my family, many other families are going through situations and don't report because they are not aware of what to do and how to seek for help. Ms. Mayor, members of the council, our community needs access to resources, education and support. This is widespread in Portland and by providing this support and resources,
 we start to shine a light on the really problem, and then we can move forward and heal these wounds. My family was grateful that someone explained these actions are hurtful and not acceptable. It's empowering my family to take positive actions, to take care of ourselves, and involve as well to support others in the community experiencing similar issues. Thank you. Thank you. Pass the mic over. Thanks, Michael.
 Good afternoon. I don't speak English, but I speak Somali. My name is Salad Ali Wahim. I came to this country as a refugee from Somalia.
 I came to this country in 2013. Coming to America from Somalia and Africa, I was very happy and grateful when I came here.
 Yeah, the story I had when I was in Africa, in America, was that people welcome each other and support each other. But when I came here, there was a story that happened that changed my mind, the way I was thinking.
 There was a day I was in a gateway transit center. So I was taking a train, but I took a train which is not the one I wanted. I was taking a train, but I took a train which is not the one I wanted.
 Yeah, I was going to Gresham, but I took a train which is going to Calacmas. Yeah, when I noticed that this is not the train I was supposed to take, so then I got off the first stop. Yeah.
 Then when I get off the first stop, then I start walking back to the... And it was a raining day and it was very cold. And I called my son who was at home that time. Yeah, when I was talking to the phone with my son, I saw a white man who...
 And walking there. Then I said, my son, okay, there is someone here and I don't speak English, so if you can...
 talk to him, he can direct me where I want. Then I went after the man and the only word English I knew was help, help, then I just approached the man. Then when I said help, help, the man looked at me and started shouting at me and
 And he was screaming and shouting. And I was someone who lost and don't know anywhere to go. So I just pointed the phone and tried to give the phone and talk to him. And my son was on the phone and
 The center of the
 Turned to me and started screaming at me, and he was using, I didn't know English, but my son was telling me he was on the phone, and the man started talking very bad language and hateful language. Yeah, my son said, that man is a dangerous man.
 Go after him and just leave him alone. Then I just went through the street. Then I walked the train track. Then when I was going, I just...
 reach the train stop. Luckily there was a Somali man who was waiting a train there which knows my language and I speak to him where this train is going. Then he said, I'm going to Gresham and this train is the Gresham one.
 That's how I went home that day with a very fearful... When that incident happened after that, it was 2013, and I was new to the country. I learned that ICO, which is African Youth Community Organization...
 When I called, they opened the door at that time. It was 2014. I just started coming to the community. Mr. Mayor, I'm sorry.
 Since that time I became part of the community and I was coming to the events and all what they were doing. We had a lot of documents, we had a lot of documents, we had a lot of phone numbers. We had a lot of documents, we had a lot of phone numbers. We had a lot of phone numbers. We had a lot of phone numbers. We had a lot of phone numbers. We had a lot of phone numbers. We had a lot of phone numbers. Everything...
 We need help, but we just go there, and even if we get a letter from the Fulistam or immigration on anywhere, they use it to help us in helping that. So yeah, how you help the community and also as a community organization, it's like ICO, it's very helpful, right?
 And I really appreciate how you are supporting Boa and ICO for the community. We participate that. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Thank you for sharing your story. Commissioner Fritz. First, I'm sorry. Okay.
 I'm really sad that you've each had these experiences, and I want our neighbours from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and from Somalia to know that your council welcomes you and we're glad you're here. Thank you for being part of our community. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. Thank you. Our next panel to give testimony is Zhao Xiang from PBOT, Irene Marion from PBOT, Erin Waters from the Q Center, and Molly Mayo from Southeast Uplift. Commissioner Udaly, I just want to point out the time. We're going to lose Commissioner Hardesty. Okay. At 445? Okay. Okay.
 Welcome, everyone. If you could please limit your testimony because we're in six minutes going to lose Commissioner Hardesty, and we would like to complete this presentation. And please state your name before you start giving your testimony. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Xiao Zhang. I'd like to thank the council for this time, and I'd like to thank the PUA leadership for inviting us to speak on behalf of our experience with PUA. So I am a Safe Routes to School Program Coordinator with the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and I'd like to share why we are active with Portland United Against Hate and why this program is valuable to our work. And I'll try to make it short.
 So we are active with the coalition because we believe that racial equity in transportation matters. Our bureau has adopted the city's racial equity goals and strategies, and we try to lead with these priorities. PUA's values of rejecting hate distinguishes them as a clear and valuable partner.
 Supporting PUA enhances livability in our city and movability in our streets, and we greatly appreciate their unequivocal commitment to rallying behind the community. They strive, as you heard earlier, they strive to collect data that is reflective of community experiences and can potentially inform programs like Safe Routes to School and Vision Zero to respond to community needs. Because of this common goal to build capacity for safety in Portland streets, a partnership between PBOT and PUA is a natural convergence.
 PUA is valuable to our city programs as it's made up of leaders and influencers from our communities. They provide expertise as first responders to hate crimes with access to resources, tools, and the trust of their communities.
 At a programming level, PBOT is limited in our available resources and ability to follow up with every single person that is affected and has experienced hate in our streets. And that's where we rely heavily on our community partners to create more capacity in supporting hate crime victims and their families. Every time we hear about an incident that happens in our communities, it's really a turning point in our work.
 I'd like to share a few examples. Last summer, we had a mother reach out to us about one of the many incidents that's happened to her on the street. She shared about a man driving and slowing down to literally follow her until she reached a MAX platform. And she questioned whether it was safe for her Latina, Latinx, excuse me, children to take the MAX to school if she, a full grown woman, did not feel safe.
 were working with this mother and her children's school to create safety language and trainings using PUA tools. In May 2017, as mentioned a few times earlier, two high school students were verbally assaulted on the MAX because one of them appeared to be Muslim, and this ended in three stabbings and two deaths. This caused all of our schools to freeze and question transportation safety and whether or not their communities were welcome to participate in active transportation in our streets.
 Two weeks after that incident, a black student at Hossford Middle School was followed by two white men and verbally abused for two blocks while trying to wait for the bus. And many, many students saw this and witnessed it. So along with parents, staff, and community partners like Oregon Walks and the 107ists, we rallied together behind this school to show the students that adults care about them.
 Portland Safe Routes to School serves over 100 students in all five of our school districts. When our students and their families are feeling unsafe in their daily commute to and from school, we want to connect them to resources like PUA to get more help beyond what we can offer. We recognize that our work encourages more vulnerable populations to be out in public spaces, and we have to try our best to ensure that those spaces provide more safety measures than just crossing –
 crosswalks excuse me or traffic signals we recognize that in order to effectively serve portland school communities we must work in solidarity with pua and show up with a sense of urgency hua is an invaluable resource that has elevated the importance of equitable safety throughout pibot and the city of portland thank you for your time thank you
 Good afternoon. My name is Irene Marion. I'm the Equity and Inclusion Manager at PBOT. We've taken some time, so I'm not going to go through my whole statement here, but I just want to reiterate what my colleague Zhao has shared. We are feeling some urgency around addressing these issues, around showing up in solidarity, around the partnership that we need to provide as city bureaus. And that's really driven by the fact that we have a comprehensive plan, climate action goals,
 our transportation system plan, that all are leading us to encourage people to get out of their cars, to be in public space, to walk, to bike, to use alternative modes of transportation. And so as our programs are going out into community to encourage this behavior change, we are feeling concern about asking people of color to engage and to be out in public space.
 We have a true commitment, a deep commitment to this work. We are sponsoring events where we can. We're showing up, we're just wanting to be here. So we look forward to future partnership opportunities across other city bureaus. We want to make sure that we can continue to contribute to the efforts that the city is making. And we encourage you to ask and encourage your bureaus to do the same. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Erin Waters and I'm from the Board of Directors at the Q Center. So what I want to do is talk a little bit about why it's important for the queer community to be included in these conversations. While there have been some legal wins, we are still seeing a lot of significant discrimination against sexual and gender minorities. Our
 Our social climate remains pretty fraught with discrimination and outright violence. Worse yet, there's a continuing trend of political tribalism, which treats our identities and ability to live our lives as something up for public debate. And so if we are the subject of those discussions, then we should have a voice at the table. And Portland United Against Hate is a way for us to do that. During the 2018 March Trans March rally, PUA was visible to over 300 members of the transgender community. And so their phase two work, documenting incidents of hate,
 Hate means the Queer Center is going to be relying heavily on our partnership with them. As an avenue for trusted contact, we are going to become a very important outpost for reporting those incidents, and that will continue moving forward.
 And as we watch incidents of hate crime rise, we're reminded that this is not a new phenomenon. This is something that has been happening and always going on. And what's changing is that we're becoming stronger and better organized. Our stories are being better held and told by organizations that are choosing to seek us out and support us. So organizations like PUA are critical to building bridges between the queer community and our neighbors that'll actually stop the cycles of violence against us.
 It is unfortunate that one of the most important days of the year for the trans community is November 20th. It's the Trans Day of Remembrance. It is a day in which we honor the ones that we've lost, those who've died, and
 We actually lost a member of our community last May, Gigi Eugene Pierce. She was bright and vibrant. She should definitely not be forgotten. We held a vigil at the Q Center. And the reason that these things are important is because it's an opportunity for us to grieve together. It's something that we are going to do for ourselves. There aren't a lot of people in the community who will grieve with us, none who will do it for us. And so these are moments that are really important. And PUA gives us an opportunity to make sure our stories are being recorded and our experiences are being told.
 And our ability to find support with one another in the community is hinged on organizations like the Q Center and PUA to amplify the voices of those who are often given the smallest platforms available. And so it's with their help that we are gonna be able to target solutions and figure out the best ways to move forward. Thank you. Thank you for the testimony. Appreciate your being here. Hi. Thank you. Molly Mayo with Southeast Uplift. Here's the abbreviated version as well.
 PUA has been a model of city-community partnerships. You've seen from the testimony how communities of identity, PBOT, all communities are benefiting from this incredible model partnership. Southeast Uplift is fully committed to and invested in the PUA coalition initiative.
 Leveraging the strengths of pre-existing infrastructures that have a historical relationship with city government, such as neighborhood associations and district coalitions, along with the deep wisdom, creativity, and skill of PUA partners is a combined effort of which we can all be proud. This is undoubtedly a team of people that city government wants to see continue to do vital anti-hate work.
 Let's not overlook the fact that ultimately our work is to prevent acts of hate and there is much still to be done. Southeast Uplift strongly values the opportunity to be a part of PUA and fully acknowledges that participating in PUA has contributed vastly to keeping the work of our organization relevant to the needs of our community.
 This partnership is making progress building trusted networks of profound benefit to the city. Let this anti-hate work and this successful partnership continue. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. That concludes our presentation.
 Colleagues, do you have any questions? We have staff in the room if you want to. I just have one. And first, thank you all for taking the time to be here for what's staying the whole time. Thank you to those in the audience who I recognize and I respect and who have come to be supportive, even though you don't get to testify. Commissioner Hardest, you mentioned this morning about white privilege having kind of drowned out a lot of other voices.
 And in the past, we did take testimony on reports, and now we can't. So thank you for being here anyway. My question, Commissioner, this is a fantastic report. Thank you for all of your work. Thank you to your staff in the Office of Community and Civic Life. HUA is one-time funded, I believe. Are you planning to put a request, a direction to develop to continue the funding? Could I have Director Reid come up? Not.
 something that we planned on including in the report. Thank you, appreciate it. I'm just mindful because I know we have to get the first batch of requests in this Friday and so I was going to offer to partner with you or co-sponsor or whatever if that's something that you're willing to do.
 Can I give you a context of what support is needed? So definitely the grant support for the PUA partners, and then the staffing support has come separately in the last two years. And so staffing has come to Community and Civic Life, and the grant support came through special appropriations. The PUA leadership and PUA
 anyone, please correct me if I'm wrong, have decided that for their long-term financial sustainability, they would like to move to a community staff model. The how and why the transition period is still to be determined, but that actually sets them up not only for partnership with the city, but with the county, possibly the state, TriMet, and also private funders who would like to invest in this area of work.
 So the staffing part that was typically with community and civic life, I would again, advocacy members, correct me if I'm wrong, they were looking for transitional support so they could move to a community staff model. The grant making part has always come through special appropriations. And so that is again a consideration. You heard it from the testimony, continued support from the city. It is your wisdom as a council, special appropriations, other places,
 And I would say that the level of support that the PUA leadership has shared with me to date for their level of grant funding next year would represent approximately 6% of our general fund budget. And so that is not an area that we could take – that is not a request that we could accommodate within our 99% budget this year. So in terms of –
 absolute stalwart support for continued funding for PUA, yes, we endorse that. But where and how we would like to examine, possibly not in this forum, but with you in other conversations. Thank you. That's very helpful. Our budget process this year is really different from the way it has been before. And in some ways, it's more challenging because the council is supposed to
 direct to develop concepts. On the other hand, it's really great because we don't actually have to solve the problem, we just have to state the problem and then direct the bureaus to figure out if there's a solution and if so, what kind of funding it wants. So perhaps we could state the
 My desire, certainly, to continue supporting the community. This is brilliant work. This is necessary work. And this is really engaging all of our communities in some of the most important challenges that we're all collectively and individually facing. So I believe it needs to continue as to how and what mechanisms it is we can figure that out as we move forward. So thank you very much for your answer.
 Very good. At this point, I will entertain a motion. I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. This is really important work. It's good to get the numbers, even from the pilot. As Mr. Mundy said, they're really important.
 Very impressive. And so I hope that a lot of people have been watching this on cable and that we'll be able to publicize it far and wide so that now that you're putting out the full version, we can encourage people to report. I appreciated the Mayor's questions about what do we do with those reports and how can we make sure that crimes are investigated and hopefully people are held accountable for those crimes.
 Because otherwise, people are going to stop reporting even if they feel comfortable reporting. Because if nothing happens and they did want something to happen, that's going to be a further erosion of trust, as the Mayor mentioned. So I appreciate, I know you've all been thinking about this and working towards this. And I hope you've heard from the Council that we want to continue to partner with you as well. So thank you very much to all concerned. Hi. You daily? Hi.
 Well, in the interest of time, I have severely edited my remarks. First, I just want to thank everyone who came today to participate in a panel, give testimony, or just to witness the report. As I think everyone in this room knows, hate is not new to our communities. However, I think it's clear that since the 2016 presidential election, there's...
 Some people have been emboldened, especially those with xenophobic, sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, and anti-Semitic views. And as we've heard today, the data...
 WeWork Collecting isn't fully capturing the level of these incidents and the experience that many of our community members are enduring. So once again, I'm grateful to all the partners of the Portland United Against Hate Coalition for their leadership and vision in times of uncertainty.
 Your work from the data collection system to the supportive services and training you've been providing is absolutely vital in our efforts to combat hate in our city.
 I want to acknowledge that $350,000 to build a network like this from the ground up was no easy feat. And commend you for your resourcefulness and creativity and ingenuity and collaboration with each other. And I look forward to continuing.
 to work with you on our next step. Sorry, I have really mangled my remarks, trying to make them extra short.
 I just want to say I was a little nervous a year ago for the first report because this work took a while to get off the ground. It was a huge project, and I was concerned that my colleagues wouldn't be satisfied with the efforts given our investment. Thankful they were, but today I just couldn't be prouder of how much progress has been made in the last year.
 Thank you to PBOT for representing today. Irene and Zhao, it's great to make this connection between these two bureaus, and I appreciate your leadership on the issue and continued collaboration with PUA. Thank you, Commissioner Fripps, for your early leadership of PUA and your continued support. Thank you to the mayor, or should I call you Daddy Warbucks?
 for your support. If you weren't listening closely earlier, that's not going to make any sense, but I said it anyway. But it was funny to me, so I appreciate it. Yeah, I like to make the man laugh every once in a while. And finally, I want to thank Carrie Coe. Is she still in the room? There she is. You've been moving around. Thank you.
 Carrie, you have worked tirelessly and collaboratively to deliver on the community's vision for the coalition. I really don't think that we could have done it without you. So thank you for representing the Office of Community and Civic Life and supporting our diverse community so well. And I'm excited to see what you're going to do moving forward to be continued. I vote aye.
 Wheeler. Well, this has been a fantastic afternoon, and I appreciate it. I appreciate everybody who testified. And for those of you who didn't testify, your presence here speaks volumes. So thank you for that as well. Please do see me as more than just a financial supporter for this enterprise. I am highly committed to this, and the data speaks for itself. And Commissioner –
 Mayor Redekopan, Mayor of New York City, Mayor Redekopan, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor of New York City, Mayor
 And I appreciated hearing the testimony early on about how this isn't really happening in other communities. It should happen in every community. And I'm just glad that here in Portland the communities found a way to come together and work in a very positive and productive way.
 It's always dangerous for me as police commissioner to speak about policing issues because if I don't get it right, I'm likely to hear from it very quickly from a number of people. So I want to correct something I said much, much earlier in the testimony. In fact, if a hate crime is reported...
 through our 911 system and it is dispatched to the Portland Police Bureau, there is a sergeant who is specifically assigned to hate crimes, and there is a specific requirement within the Bureau for notification to supervisors, to detectives, all the way up to the assistant chief, and then to the chief herself. So the notification is taken very, very seriously within PPB.
 I was also given a little bit too much information, but I thought it was sort of interesting for us as a council and for the PUA Coalition as well, that state statutes apparently create a degree of limitation with regard to what is called or labeled a hate crime in the state of Oregon. They're called intimidation crimes.
 statutes and that creates some barriers in and of itself and that's something I think my colleagues and I need to take a deeper dive into.
 and look into. But that's neither here nor there. That's for the future. I just want to add my thanks to my colleagues. I want to thank Commissioners Fritz and Eudaly in particular. They've been absolutely thoughtful and consistent and hardworking champions along with you to make sure that this enterprise continues to be successful. And I know that will be the case into the future as well. So thank you all for being here. I vote aye. The report's adopted and we are adjourned. Thank you.
 Thank you.