Is it 930? It is. My glass is on so I can see where the consent calendar is, much less remember it. Good morning everyone. Welcome to the January 13th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll?
 here welcome everyone we have some citizens signed up for testimony this morning under our council communications we'll get to that in a moment we have no requests I believe for removing items from the consent calendar and putting them on the regular calendar is that right okay
 Thank you.
 maintain basic courtesy here, which is if you agree with someone, feel free to give them a thumbs up or other wave of the hand gesture to show your support. And if you disagree, the same thing can go with a polite hand gesture to the contrary. But we ask that other than when we suspend the rules, we ask that we not have applause or verbal demonstrations in the council chamber so everyone feels able to have their say. So with that, let's begin with item 29. Thank you.
 Request of Carl Wickman to address Council regarding Cedar Crossings Covered Bridge Annual Update. Welcome back, Mr. Wickman. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Councillors. For the record, Carl Wickman. After last year's update, I received phone calls and even letters, people asking, what's the difference between satisfactory and good? These are the slides from last year's presentation, so I don't know which is satisfactory and which is good. Good.
 Commissioner Novick, thanks to you and Erica Nebel for arranging a very productive meeting with David Olangi. He brought engineering plans and I brought photos. Our area of concern was the southeast corner of the bridge. The issue, sidewalk flooding and roadway ponding. The cause, lack of maintenance. You can see that the catch basin is clogged with gravel and silt, which results in the flooding off to the right.
 We looked at the engineering plan and discovered that there is an existing gutter and an existing catch inlet, but the photographs show that they're buried underneath mounds of dirt, so who knew that they were there without the engineering photos. On December 9th, I got word that the USGS was going to conduct a survey at the site, and I drove through the mudslide on Flavelle and then at the
 Turn out at the bridge, there was a tree that was down. You can see it crushed that pickup truck. The USGS was documenting the record-setting stream levels and flow of volumes to be used in computer modeling. The arrow shows the high water mark just two days prior.
 The USGS is concerned that there might be scouring happening on the southeast abutment. These photos were from that same December 19th, and can show that the volume was very intense that day. On December 22nd, when the wreath was put up on the opening slide, I was greeted with this, and I was very concerned what had happened to the bridge. Not to worry, though, it was PBOT at work. They had reclaimed over 200 feet of gutter and had exposed the wall.
 the catch basin and into ponding, flooding, and splashing. Also, the asphalt was ground down to the wood subsurface and a waterproof membrane was installed and the surface was recovered. So what else needs attention?
 The interior walls on both the east and north side have to be repaired. This is due from the splashing and flooding of the cars driving through the ponding, and the water was never allowed to dry. This has now been cured with the fix that PBOT did. I was out there just yesterday, and it was totally dry. We have to replace 100 feet of rotten pedestrian rail top.
 I would pay for the replacement of this bullet riddled sign. It's not a very attractive way to welcome people to Cedar Crossing. Graffiti remains a problem, but not very much of a problem. Cedar Crossing is going to have its 35th anniversary. Mayor Clark designated it as a scenic site. It was also included in the comprehensive plan as a Gold 5 in 19...
 Mayor Katz and then Commissioner Hales made it the poster child for the Pleasant Valley comp plan. These are the 2016 projects, a Popsicle Bridge competition with the local schools, a scenic bike tour route with the City of Happy Valley and Clackamas County Tourism to feature local sites, and a photo contest with a sponsor yet to be discovered.
 Thank you for your time. And remember that Cedar Crossings is the only covered bridge for probably within 100 miles.
 Well, thank you for your advocacy. You've really done a great job of keeping the communities and the council's attention focused on this. Thank you. And for your constructive work with PBI. Thank you for working with the city. Just to remind everybody watching at home where this bridge is. It's off of Foster Road on Southeast Deardorff, way in the heart of southeast Portland. And my understanding is it's the only covered bridge within the city of Portland. Is that right? It was the first ever built in the city of Portland. And the first ever built in the city of Portland.
 and the only one ever built in Multnomah County as well. Clackamas County lost theirs in 1957, and Washington County's last was in the 1940s. Commissioner Fritz, I have a question for you.
 Since one of the requests addresses graffiti, what is the extent to which citizens can engage in self-help on the graffiti removal? They're allowed to clean the back of signs. They're not allowed to clean the surface of traffic signs because they're coated with a special reflective surface, so only PBOT can do that. We're actually just discussing that in the ONI budget meeting this Monday to see how
 improve the volunteer coordination. Thanks very much, Carl. You're welcome. Mr. Wickman, if there's any issues you want to follow up with my office, Laura Hansen from my office is right there. But thank you so much for your work with PBOT. Great. Thank you. Okay. Item 30. Request of Joe Walsh to address council regarding justice. Come on up. Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. Yes.
 To steal a line from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar's play, I come not to praise you, I come to tell you the truth. The sweeps have continued, so the mayor lied to us. Your police are giving out tickets to the most vulnerable among us. Your legacy, Mayor, is surely in danger. A few weeks ago, you had a man arrested here in the council as he screamed for medical assistance.
 You had him arrested along with a citizen who was videotaping the incident, and then you barred the videotaped guy permanently from your hearings. And that court, that was overturned by Judge Simon's decision, and the hearing officer has now relinquished any jurisdiction on that. So the permanent injunctions that you think you have, you don't. A week ago...
 You all sit there and listen to a 30-minute report from the City Club about pending raising taxes for $400 million. One bureau.
 The Transportation Bureau, according to the City Club, is in hock $400 million, and you, Mayor, would not let us discuss it. There were at least four people that wanted to discuss that. I think after you go over $2 million, you ought to have a little discussion, a little bit. $400 million, a big discussion. What happened?
 Who's at fault? Nobody talks about that. They talk about the four taxes that this commissioner is going to lay on everybody. But they don't say anything about the jurisdiction or the responsibility. None. Because you wouldn't let us speak. And if you let us speak that day, we would have said that. And you're wrong, Mayor.
 Ask the city attorney about the charter. The charter only exempts two items that cannot be discussed. One, this communication. Any other, second readings. That's it. You are out of order. Now, you're going to consider my appeal today. And I would be a terrible activist if I didn't say something about it.
 You're going to make me a folk hero, Mr. Mayor, because let me explain something to you about the law. Because your city attorney sent two, and I kicked their butts. So let me explain the law to you. In the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, if you lose, you affect nine states. Nine states. That's going to make you a really popular mayor.
 And I see my time is up. And I know that the previous speaker got all kinds of time. But you come down on the activists all the time. And I am really anxious to see the door hit your butt when you leave. And you too, Novick. Okay, next.
 931, request of Carlos Jesus Zilmer to address council regarding enhancing advertisement possibilities while generating revenue for the city. Morning. Nice to meet you. I'm a poor college student, so who listens to me? But we're kind of going through this boom as a human race of material sciences. We're seeing all kinds of different materials being available at an industrial level. And one of them goes by the name of Kevlar.
 I have this idea of developing these Kevlar domes for local businesses that have signs on street corners all around downtown. This idea kind of generated from developing iPads to be put onto these displays.
 these displays so that we can begin to, you know, local businesses can program them to have, like, daily specials or reruns of SpongeBob, really whatever the fuck they want to, like, program an iPad to do. And also, while we do this, we can also program advertisements to be put on a scheduled basis. And with the revenue generated from these advertisements from local businesses'
 paying, say, rent for these domes, we can take that money and utilize that in order to, say, fix bridges that are a historical landmark to our city. Or whatever other concerns or small reasons we can see using that money for, since we're obviously using a lot more money for transportation purposes than we probably should be, we can use that money to fix bridges
 I've looked into it and for a single dome, the cost of the materials would be about $200.
 I estimated around $500 to $1,000 for the general construction of a single corner for one of these domes. And if we were to industrialize these and make this at a larger scale, obviously the cost of the materials would go down because there would be an assembly line for these to be done. And so as I was saying, I'm just a college student.
 who's struggling to eat and survive every day, trying to be a nuclear engineer. So I can't really get this off the ground, and that's why I'm here discussing this in front of you, Mayor. And I just hope that you guys took the time to listen and maybe took this into consideration. Thank you. Oh, thank you. Thanks very much. Good luck to you. Thank you. Okay, Item 32. Request of Lightning Watchdog PDX to address council regarding Centennial Mills Legacy Project.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. We have a couple big projects out there, as you know, the Centennial Mills Project and also the U.S. Post Office Project. And I guess from my position, and again, I only speak on my own behalf, is that I'd like to see the Centennial Mills Project continue to move along. I think, in my opinion, that the choice to pick Jordan Schnitzer as a developer is the right choice.
 i like a lot of the plans that have been laid out and i think he's really uh developed something here that can be utilized by the public and that's what i really like about it as far as on the the docks the open space and in a lot of various things so what i want to have an understanding i guess with patrick quinton is that and in the mayor of course and the council members is that
 You have things moving forward on this. You have somebody there that can get the job done. And I think it's more or less just putting together all the pieces at this time and to move this forward and understand it's been vacant for the last 15 years. It's costing the city a tremendous amount of money to have it sit vacant. We understand the demolition costs currently. We understand the cost to have the horses over there.
 tremendous costs have added up and now is the time to do something more productive with this property it's the time to just communicate maybe a little bit better i mean these are big deals they get complicated and try to finalize this you have a good developer there ready to finalize this to try to get things moving and let's see what we can do let's go into it in an optimistic manner and try to just finalize this project
 Now, another thing I like about that U.S. Post Office project is that I also think that when you're looking at PNCA being located there with all the artists is that we have the potential to develop something out here all the way to Centennial Mills that a lot of people in the community can enjoy, and I especially want to see the artists step up on both these projects and start giving some ideas because I think that we're
 Overall, we have kind of the energy there that can really turn into something really great. It can be a legacy. Centennial Mills can be that legacy project. The post office project can end up being a legacy. And also, Mayor, I believe that you are in a position right now to finalize this, especially on Centennial Mills. And I hope that we can come up with that extra money that might possibly be needed.
 and finalize this. I think there's a few hang-ups here, but I don't think we're that far off in finalizing Centennial Mills and really getting that moving forward. Thank you for your assistance. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, Item 33. Request of Jim Wittenberg to address council regarding streets and bridges in Portland. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. City Councilors.
 First, I just want to tell you that I don't dislike any one of you. Even though I may seem like it sometimes, I don't. I'm not a hateful person. I can't think of anybody that I hate right now. Maybe Vladimir Putin or something, but I can't think of that. I looked at last night. I got a letter from the bank that I have my card with. I noticed that I'd given $50 to...
 Jay Inslee up in Washington State for governor. And I've known him for about 15 years, probably, when he was just an attorney in Cedar, Washington, next to Yakima. And then he ran for Congress, and I think he won the first time and lost the second. And then he went over to the western part of the state where he fit in better. But he said today, he says, we're not going to just fix a few potholes
 I thought, what a nice phrase that he used. We're going to finish the job. I'm thinking how many times we've started jobs and then we haven't finished them. We just haven't gotten around to it. It hasn't been important enough for us.
 But he seems to finish things. This is really why I like him and probably why I'm going to move up there and retire in there. There's also a young lady up there that I've known for 40 years, so that could be positive. He's also going to support the minimum wage initiative at $13.50. So I thought that was a good thing to take a stand on that.
 Also in the paper today, I see an article. I wasn't going to talk about this, but TriMet, the metro, I never ride the metro. I was thinking about it.
 I never get on the darn thing. I ride the bus, and I get a ride with a car once in a while, but I never ride the mitral. I wonder if it's because it breaks down so often. It's got all kinds of problems with it here in the paper, if you haven't read it yet. I wouldn't ride this just out of principle now.
 The second thing, I mean, the next thing is that I was in the hospital a little bit. And it made me start thinking about people who live out on the street. And when I made the copies that you have before you, I found a woman on 9th and Broadway in a sleeping bag.
 She must be 40, maybe 35 or 40. She was in a sleeping bag wrapped up with an umbrella up above her. And so I was curious. I went over and talked to her. You know, I talk to people on the street. I'm not too good for them, really. I learned that from Mitch Snyder years ago in Washington, D.C.
 He just told me that you should talk to people. It's a nice thing to do. They won't all ask you for money. And she said that she can't find a place in the city. She can't find a place to get out of the...
 She sleeps between two buildings at night, and her three kids are with relatives. And so I thought, the next thing I'm just going to say is that you may wonder why I do these things and why I don't just get my $30, $40 an hour as a pharmacist and be a rich guy like all my relatives are. I mean, I don't have any poor relatives. The only one that was poor died, and he's gone.
 but we we're all pretty pretty well off pretty comfortable people but these three little girls here are the reason that i do this these three girls i grew up with they're now 40 years old have eight kids i live in portland because i want to make it a better place for them to live and i want to make it so they can get around why did i do this for the property tax limitation thing a year a few years ago put it on the ballot because of my dad you know this thing here
 He was worried about his house. He was just worried he would lose his house. He was an old man. Just before he died, we finally got the thing passed.
 1990 he died at the end of 1990. MR. Jim, thank you. You're great. We appreciate you. MR. At any rate, that's all. You can look at these things. We had a big deal on Hawthorne a few years ago. Charlie remembers. MR. Yes. MR. And we're just looking at what we can do. We need to fix this so I don't get run down by the cars that are really traveling through these streets and going through a lot of red lights.
 It's very dangerous out there. Thank you. I've never seen it so bad as I did now. Of course, I've never been on a walker before either. Well, take care. Okay. All right. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's move to consent calendar. We have nothing to withdraw from it, so we'll take action on the consent calendar. As printed, please, roll call. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye.
 Stoltzman Aye Novick Aye Hayles Aye and then let's move on we have some time certain later let's let's take up item 34 that's going to be rescheduled 34 accept report from Portland Community College on the current work of Future Connect and that's to be rescheduled to February 24th at 9 45 and let's go to the regular calendar please
 item mr davis could you sit down mr davis could you sit down please thank you well just please no not here in the council chamber sir please have a seat and you're welcome to testify later if you'd like to but please have a seat item 43 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with law enforcement agencies for the sale of the police bureau training complex further questions or concerns about this second reading roll call
 I appreciate the discussion last time and your commitment, Mayor, as the Commissioner in Charge of the Bureau of Police, to look into whether some of the fees to be charged could include a portion of cost recovery for the police.
 dedication of Portland taxpayers of $18 million to build this facility so that we do more than cover the cost of opening it and keeping the lights on, but in fact, especially for premium services like the Scenario Village, that we make sure that we recapture some of the expenditure. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you very much. Okay, item 44. Okay.
 establish a tax on the demolition of certain residential structures in the city of Portland. If there's no objection, I'm going to return this to my office, and we're going to come back with revised regulations through the residential infill project. 45.
 Authorize a participation agreement with U.S. Bank National Association for fleet credit card services for fuel for a not-to-exceed amount of $4,250,000 for five years. Good morning, Christine and John. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Council. Christine Moody with Procurement Services. Today you have before you the Chief Procurement Officer's report recommending a contract award to U.S. National Bank
 for fleet credit card services for the Bureau of Internal Business Services City Fleet Division. The contract cost is based on the purchase of approximately 250,000 gallons of motor fuel for City of Portland vehicles for not to exceed $850,000 per year or $4.25 million for the five-year agreement. Thank you.
 In accordance with city code, the city is able to participate in cooperative procurements without needing further competition for establishing price agreements for the purchase of goods or services. The Western States Contracting Alliance competitively solicited and the state of Oregon issued a corresponding participating agreement to allow Oregon municipalities to utilize this agreement.
 the city publicly noticed its intent to utilize this agreement on november 24 2015 and no protests were received john hunt is here from city fleet to answer any technical questions or i will turn this back over to council okay i think there were some questions about this um
 I had some questions last time, and I very much appreciate all of your and your staff's responses. It turns out that the majority of the expenditure is from the Fire Bureau, and I have gotten a copy of where the fueling stations are. Commissioner Saltzman, it looks like there's some opportunities for significant savings, if we could figure out how to refuel the fueling stations.
 fire trucks at city facilities compared with using this contract. And I know, with your fiscal responsibility, that you can look into that. I'm also very troubled that there is no requirement that it's bureau by bureau as to what the rules are. Certainly something I'm going to do in parks, which is the third largest user, is to require that every time a driver fills up at a non-city site, they fill out a report saying why they needed to do that and just –
 And we'll have some accountability on that. So I would encourage both the second highest user is police. I would encourage us all to ask our bureaus, if ever you're using these cards, you need to document how much further was it to the fueling station, why did you not fill up when you left the car the night before, those kinds of things. Because obviously $4.5 million over five years is a lot of money. Good point. Okay, other questions for Christine or John?
 Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it's carried forward from last week. We can vote on it now. Previous agenda? The report. Oh, yeah, it's the report. That's right. So there's a motion to accept the report. Is there a second? Second. Further discussion? Roll call to accept the report. Well, it's going to be a very tight budget year, and we're going to be needing to scrub every bucket. This is, I think, an opportunity, particularly for the Fire Bureau, to achieve some significant savings. And so I know that Commissioner Salzman will look into that. Aye. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your line of questioning last week, and certainly I will make sure that we do check into our policies with respect to refueling the fire engines and fire trucks. Good points. Thank you. Aye. Novick. Aye.
 I also thank Commissioner Fritz for attention to detail, and it does seem like we should do everything we can to make sure that we're buying cheaper when we can. So I will also ask my bureaus to make sure that we justify and document any time we're not buying at city facilities. Aye. Anything else? It was Senator Proxmire who said it first, right? A million here and a million there, and eventually you've got real money. Thank you. Aye. 46. Aye.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Far North Nikolai Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E08401, for $4,090,000. Second meeting roll call. Ritz. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for the Bureau's usual diligent report on this expenditure. Aye. Fish. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Appreciate the way that you, Commissioner Fish, and the Bureau figured out how to do this project with less disruption to the industrial district that it serves and it runs through. So I thought that was creative project management on the Bureau's part, so thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Although we are copying the fact that given its failed intersection now, given its location, it will have negative impacts on the credit. Appreciate that. Aye. Thank you.
 okay item 47 and let's also do 51 a so we could read 51 a first please and then 47 and we'll have the city attorney staff present on both 51 a author I see city attorney to institute proceedings challenging the district attorney's order in the petition of mark Bartlett
 47. Authorize the City Attorney to appeal the declaratory judgment and permanent injunction in Joseph Walsh v. Bryant-Inga et al. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales, members of the Council. I'm Harry Auerbach from the City Attorney's Office. With me is Dan Simon, who was one of the lawyers who litigated the Joe Walsh matter. I'll start by speaking to the...
 Bartlett appeal. Mr. Bartlett requested certain city attorney opinions through a public records request. We denied the request on the basis of attorney-client privilege, and he appealed to the district attorney.
 The district attorney issued an order ordering us to disclose the records on the basis of an ORS 192.495, which provides that notwithstanding any of the exemptions in the act, all public records are disclosable if they're 25 years, after 25 years. We believe that this is contrary to our obligations as a district attorney.
 under the statute that maintains attorney-client privilege. We think it will make it more difficult for us to provide you with sensitive legal advice and to get sensitive information from, candid and sensitive information from you and the folks who work for you in order for us to provide you with the legal advice and representation that is our obligation to provide. So we are asking for authorization to provide.
 seek review of this through filing an action in the circuit court. MR. You want to take questions on each separately? MR. Yes, whatever pleases the council. MR. So let me – thank you for your presentation. Let me pose a concern. I'd like to get your reaction. Given the current timeline on Superfund, it is entirely likely that the Superfund process, which is the federally mandated process for addressing the cleanup of the river,
 will not be concluded within a 25-year timeframe. That's entirely plausible. In fact, given that we're now, what, 11, 12, 13, 14 years of drift and great uncertainty about what's going to happen going forward, so it's possible that Superfund and some of the most important decisions in Superfund will not be resolved within a 25-year period. In Superfund, the city is a PRP, meaning a Potentially Responsible Party,
 And there's a doctrine in the law that applies to Superfund, which is called joint and several liability. It essentially says whoever's standing at the end has to pick up the tab for people that can't pay, which for a public entity puts taxpayers at particular peril. Under the ruling of the district attorney, if we're still in the midst of determining the city's share of responsibility for Superfund and determining how to allocate that share –
 Could we be required to turn over confidential attorney-client privilege documents in which we've received legal advice from the city attorney's office about our potential liability and how we should address those issues? Yes. The current opinion doesn't address live controversies that have gone on for 25 years, but unless we were able to convince the district attorney to change his mind, that would be true. Okay.
 So I offer that as a cautionary tale because Superfund is not the only example of a federal regulatory action which goes on forever. The federal rules about reservoirs have gone on for a long time, and the city's response to them. There are other sensitive areas where, under the theory that you've presented to us, we could still be in a –
 complex, contested proceeding where someone could successfully appeal to the attristic attorney to have attorney-client privilege documents turned over, even though the matter has not been resolved. So that's a concern that I have, and it does strike me that,
 without clarification of the contours of the statute, we could be in a situation where we're forced to turn over documents that are greatly disadvantaged to council, the city, and the taxpayers. That would be true. I'm sorry I missed part of this discussion, but I just read –
 district attorney Underhill's letter this morning. And particularly on page two, he cites the statute and says it's unambiguous. So if there is a need for statutory repair, maybe we should make the case that there's a need for statutory repair. But if the district attorney says this is the law on this particular subject, I guess I'm
 I find that fairly persuasive, and I'm not sure why we would mount an appeal for 25-year-old records. So I'm a little perplexed by this one. It's unfortunate that you just missed the discussion with Commissioner Fish because he gave a really good reason. Also, this technically is your resolution, Mayor. I mean, the reason is – No, it's actually not. It came from the city attorney. Report to you. Yeah, well –
 i mean if if you had a concern about this i think as a colleague i would appreciate a heads up about that i didn't know about it until last night you didn't know about a four-fifth that we signed that we had to sign sorry i didn't know so the issue that that i have flagged for my for you and my colleagues is superfund where it's entirely possible that within the 25-year period covered by this ruling we would have to turn over
 opinion letters from the city attorney's office before we've resolved the liability and allocation process. And I think that's a real problem. And as you know, Mayor, one of our frustrations with Superfund is it's going to outlive our grandchildren at the current pace. And under this ruling, even with Superfund still pending, we would have to turn over in response to a public records request to
 at some point, legal opinions we got at the beginning of Superfund. So I was persuaded on that basis that it would be prudent to get, to file an appeal just to make sure that the statutory interpretation of the district attorney, who, by the way, I have a lot of respect for but has yet to be declared infallible, is addressed by a court of law. And I also think we should pursue potentially a statutory fix for the reasons that you've identified. I see it as a dual track.
 But if the statute, as Harry interprets it, can be read in a certain way that's different from the district attorney, I'd prefer to have a court decide that, particularly where we have documents that could be picked up by this ruling that would put us in a detrimental position on the Superfund. I have a different course of –
 and that's regarding your statement that there's another segment of Oregon statutes that addresses attorney-client privilege. Has attorney-client privilege ever been ruled on by the Supreme Court? Well, frequently. The rule is a rule of evidence. There's a rule of evidence. There are rules of professional conduct that require us to maintain the confidences and secrets of our clients. Okay.
 And the district attorney basically said that both of those gave way in this instance to that catch-all provision in the public records law that made all public records disclosable after 25 years. I am not aware of a...
 situation in which this issue has reached our the appellate courts yet otherwise we would have had a clear answer about a public body yeah but for other entities attorney clay per other other entities aren't subject to the public records law so in essence all what we're trying to do through this resolution is get a ruling that puts us puts you on equal footing with private clients whose whose communications with their attorneys are privileged forever
 Thank you. Can I just make a qualifying point? We get different kinds of legal memos from our attorneys. So for example, sometimes we ask them to give us a memo that just outlines the legal landscape. What are the laws? What's been the case law? And what are the boundaries that govern our decisions? I have less concern about those becoming a matter of public discussion because they don't
 the kinds of strategic decisions that we have to make in light of legal risk. A memo that says, in light of X, Y, and Z, the city might have this exposure, and we recommend the following actions,
 No one in a complex, litigated, administrative proceeding has those legal memos put into the public record because they compromise people's positions. And if we can't get candid legal advice about the strengths and weaknesses of our case without fear of them becoming part of the public domain, then what the net effect will be, Mayor, we won't ask for them.
 In which case, I don't think we'll be making the same kind of wise decisions based on at least the best guidance the legal team can give us about legal liability. And for that reason, in that narrow instance, I think the district attorney's decision doesn't make sense. And I would prefer to have a court try to reconcile the different provisions of the statute.
 Commissioner Novy? MR. Commissioner Novich, I have to say that I thoroughly agree with the principle that an attorney-client privilege is attorney-client privilege, and I don't think that there's a time – should generally be a time limit on it. But I'm just wondering what your thinking is as to that language, notwithstanding ORS 192.501 to 192.505 and except as otherwise provided in it, et cetera. What's our argument that 192.501 to 505 –
 does not implicitly cover attorney-client privilege. If you don't mind, we have ABLE lawyers who have been briefing us on it. Harry, what's your response to that? Well, the argument would be that the attorney-client privilege – so the public records law doesn't specify matters that are attorney-client privilege. It specifies an exemption for things that are privileged or confidential under law. And –
 The best argument I think we're going to be able to make is that notwithstanding the public records law, the attorney-client privilege itself continues to make those communications privileged. It's not a slam dunk by any means, but we're trying to preserve our ability to give you the best legal advice that we can. When I was briefed on this, Mayor, and I don't claim any expertise on it, and as you know, we are –
 all committed to responding in a timely way to public records. Our office bends over backwards to expedite production of documents that we can, and we believe strongly in the idea of transparent government. This question, though, about whether all privileged documents from the city attorney's office that go beyond just advising us as the law and provide strategic advice and give us
 best judgment about risk in cases that are still ongoing seems to me to present a significant challenge. And I was persuaded when Harry briefed me that we should do both. We should raise this as a question for the legislature to ponder, but we should also seek an appellate ruling so that we have clarity about where to go next.
 I hear you. I guess the situation in which an issue is still ongoing 25 years later is obviously rare. The Superfund, as you argue, is one of those instances. So your understanding is the law makes no distinction between legal issues that are still ongoing versus just
 history that for some reason somebody wouldn't want to disclose Harry is that right the records that we are statute doesn't make that distinction that is correct I believe the records Mr. Bartlett wants are connected with the reservoirs which I'm not sure we're entirely done with yet either Right so Mr. Walters obviously has something to add here. Yeah, so Ben Walters with the city attorney's office part of the dilemma here is that um
 A, Jennifer Johnston, who worked on the public records request response, is not in the office today. And so Harry came in to help with this matter. But I know a little bit more about it, having conferred with Jennifer. The dilemma that we face is that there is a very quick turnaround time for filing an appeal. We have to give time.
 notice to the requesting party and the district attorney of our intent to file an appeal within seven days of the order being issued. And so we had to bring this before you on an expedited basis. There was a question about is there any –
 interpretation out there that exists for a different outcome. And I would just note that Jennifer pointed out to me that the State Attorney General's office is actually not of one mind on how this provision, the waiver provision, should be interpreted. They've issued conflicting opinions, arriving at one conclusion many years ago that determined that the exemption was
 The waiver exemption applied across the board and then subsequently, more recently, within I think the last decade, issued an opinion in which they concluded the opposite, that the waiver provision was a general provision and did not control in specific circumstances, which is a different canon of statutory construction.
 So there is some disagreement out there among the folks who have been asked to interpret this. So there is an opening there for our office to seek some clarification from the judiciary and get a determination as to which one of these analyses would control. Mayor, I have a suggestion because this is obviously a complicated area.
 If we don't provide notice of intent to appeal, we can't appeal, so the door is far closed. Right, I understand. And we have, from time to time, protected our right to appeal issues so that we can later decide not to or to proceed or on what basis. So that's the first question, and that seems to be time-sensitive. The second has to do with the scope of Mr. Bartlett's document request. I think it would be entirely appropriate for us to ask,
 Jennifer Johnson to brief a council member about the scope of that request and to see whether any of those things can be resolved informally because we would all prefer to have non-privileged, non-sensitive documents produced for obvious reasons. And the third is that we could say that before, since notice of appeal is different from appealing, we could say that before city attorney files any appeal, we have a follow-up discussion
 about the utility of that versus legislative relief. So today we're just limited to getting approval to put a marker down for a notice of appeal, which we would otherwise lose. And then when Jennifer is back in the saddle, we can talk about a range of options, including potentially not appealing. Let me just clarify. Excuse me. I'm a little under the weather, so I'm sucking on a lozenge here. I apologize. The statute requires that we give notice of our intent within seven days of the district attorney's
 decision and that we file the action within seven days after that or else we're required to pay the requester's attorney's fees whether we win or lose so you're you're basically what we're trying to do is is uh save you the expense of having to pay mr bartlett if he hires an attorney if we win the case so i just want to be clear on what's at stake with the seven and seven
 Again, I propose a dual track where we make every effort to produce all the documents that don't fall within any concern we have, and we get a clarifying ruling about when does the public records law trump in any way attorney-client privileges in ongoing cases where, frankly, producing those documents –
 puts us at a disadvantage with other parties, they would like nothing more than to know our legal strategy and use it against us. Yeah, those distinctions do make a difference for me. I find that more credible than my first view of this. So that's helpful. Thank you. Further questions for staff? Thank you both. So we're approving the notice of intent to appeal, but we're also basically… You're authorizing us to go forward. That's correct. You're authorizing us to go forward. Right. Okay.
 Let's see if there's testimony on this item and then we'll take action. All right. I'll be back for okay Yeah, and actually I think I'm gonna return briefly to a time certain item after this and then come back to the second legal case But it won't take long so stand by So testimony, please on on this particular item One a I have Joe Walsh Nancy Newell and Charles Johnson. This is only on this case I
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I'm a little confused. Are you going to ask us to give testimony on both items? No, I'll call you back for the second item. No, I'm signing up for both. Okay. Which one are we doing now? We're only doing the case that we just discussed, 51A. 51A. Okay. That seems to me that an organization like yours,
 that received an F in transparency would be bending over backwards to releasing documents to people that satisfied dissatisfaction that's going on in the community. It's hysterical to me that you're arguing something that sits on the fence, and your arguments, Commissioner Fish, very good arguments, but they're not going to carry the day. It's not a slam dunk.
 You know, you're even saying it's questionable. Why in God's name would this body, with your reputation of not giving out documents, do something like this? What is it that you win if you vote on this and you win in court? What is it that you win? You aggravated a district attorney. That's what you've done. And you do that over and over and over again. You don't see, what's that term? The big picture. Yeah.
 You don't see the big picture, guys. Please. What you think about this, that's not a big deal with me, obviously. However, I don't go out of my way to aggravate a district attorney. That's what you're going to do. Because he's saying, in his opinion, this is what you should do. And you're saying, yeah. And that's your attitude a lot. Yeah. We sit here and we dictate what we want.
 And you're going to eat this one too, which is really sad. You know, you're totally dependent on your city attorney's advice, and their advice lately is not very good. Think about it. Maybe you ought to bring in a lawyer someplace that's objective and says, hey, guys, release this stuff. Don't be jerks. Just release it.
 And as far as arguing that you have the same privacy rights as I do when I go to a lawyer, that's a tough one because when I go to a lawyer and we talk, and that's privileged communication, there is no huge federal agency looking over our shoulder. It's done. What you guys are asking is not done. And two lawyers on this council should know better.
 So don't vote for this. This is really bad stuff. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Nancy Newell. I've won a federal case with the county and the county lawyers being in error. And it was a significant one because it was Enron controlling our electric grid. And it was critical because of the actual criminality that was happening at our own World Trade Center headquarters and the full approval of the state.
 the Public Utility Commission, and the city. Now, I'm here today because this is a big mistake on your part. You're spending legal money, wasting time. We have a co-op process that's a very serious community effort. Hours people are putting in. Commissioner Saltzman's representative rarely shows up, doesn't even show up at committee work sessions. She's a great person.
 We're trying to get things done. They've been declared public officials. They didn't come in knowing this. They've been restricted in what they can say, how they can say it. And you don't even know what the laws in this situation, which is critical, and the reputation of transparency and the lack of trust at the level this city is suffering is unbelievable. And people are dying on the streets.
 And people are not being fed. And three out of four Americans now live paycheck to paycheck. And they're homeless. And they're sick. And they're sicker. And they're freezing to death. What in the world is this council about? I've won the case. You know what the federal judge ruled? And this was when the ballots were sent out illegally and had an illegal ballot title. And he ruled in our favor. And they allowed them to send it out early. And you know what our recourse was? One page in the Oregonian.
 on an illegal election. So we don't have a lot of faith. And we have Warren Buffett running Pacific Corps and throwing coal trains and wasting our time and killing future generations. This is serious stuff. And people are out there being very upset because they should be.
 Because not enough attention is brought to it. And this is one of the areas where you can do some really good work. And I'd like to see Mr. Salzman get his rabbi representative to pay attention or replace him. Because we can't get things done. We've been doing this for a year, hours and hours, not to mention lawyer hours, advising us what we can or cannot do when Judge Simon just ruled against you, and he's the settlement judge for the COAB.
 So where is our direction? What do we do? Are we going to end up in jail or something? I mean, it's really that confusing. So let's waste less time, spend millions less, get much better results in cooperative relationships with council, with police, and try to have a much better atmosphere in this city. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners, Councilmembers. My name is Charles Johnson, and it's tragic that you're being grossly secretive. You're clearly demonstrating why, regardless of whether it's Fred Stewart or Chloe Udaly, Steve Novick needs to be replaced, and why no matter whether it's Ted Wheeler or Jules Bailey who wins, we'll be better off than we are with Charlie Hales and this gross secrecy.
 About this, you have a two-page PDF attached to the agenda item. The only thing that's really relevant in there is Swindler. It should say Joe Glicker.
 There's nothing in this to let the people know that this is relative to the – I know you're taking the high road and saying, just like when you did your idiotic, stupid appeal of Judge Simon's ruling, which you'd lost – oh, sorry, you negotiated a consent decree that changed some semantics. This is the same crap from you and your 40 overpaid, worthless attorneys making probably $100,000 a year, nice $400 – $4 million there. So –
 Freedom of speech, get an injunction to stop me. So what we have is a situation where you're not telling the people what's really going on. You're saying, oh, we're protecting attorney-client privilege. We're a noble high road. You're trying to hide facts about public actions regarding the reservoirs, which you're using as a tool to pump money through contractors so that you can adhere to some ridiculous, unenforceable LT2 crap about the reservoirs.
 You're hiding all that crap just so you can say, we must do this today. Otherwise, we'll have to pay attorney's fees to a guy who doesn't even have an attorney. He's just a citizen making a public records request. Do not pursue this appeal. You won't be trapped by any. This is a lowest level court decision. It's not going to constrain you by any horrid precedent. You can do whatever you want the next time the case comes around. Don't do it. Resign. Next, please. We also have Mr. Robert West speaking.
 Mr. Davis, are you going to testify? Yep. Go ahead. Well, go ahead while he's coming up. Oh, talk now? Yes, please. So you guys are... I actually wanted to talk to him, and he left. So maybe I'll let him talk. Oh, go ahead, please. He had to leave. I don't know why, but go ahead. You're on. Well, basically...
 He's saying not to insult city attorneys. That's ridiculous in itself. That's called the First Amendment. And these same city attorneys are here as the hired gun to crap on the Constitution, to shit on our Bill of Rights. If the city attorneys use toilet paper,
 that has the Constitution printed on it, I think they're worthy of our insults. And, you know, you guys presenting this appeal is ridiculous. What's all the big secrets here at City Hall? Are you guys trying to hide stuff? Because I know you definitely haven't released the surveillance footage of me being arrested when I was filming on November 25th.
 So that reeks of a cover-up. Why can't my lawyer see the real surveillance footage that shows that I did not push the G4S security goon of yours, Mike Cohen, who's a former cop from L.A.? You're the police commissioner, and you're allowing your personal bodyguard to falsify police reports against me? You don't think that's a conflict of interest? Yes.
 And why is G4S, an international mercenary firm, even policing at City Hall? These guys are being used as an extrajudicial wing of the police, and I actually think that
 That you, personally, Mr. Police Commissioner and Mayor, conspired against me to have your G4S security goon tackle me and falsify a police report against me.
 I'm actually accusing you right now of being responsible for that because you've been trying to remove me from City Hall since the first day I ever came in here when you guys altered and deleted my testimony. You blacked out the audio and you went over and blacked out
 the screen so people can't see what I'm talking about. I was talking about a child molester who's linked in with the police agencies around here, who's now doing a 25-year prison sentence. And I just can't see what the big deal is, why you guys can't allow a few voices of dissent in City Hall, and you're so determined to appeal this ruling. Thanks very much. Okay, go ahead. Okay.
 Okay, my name is Robert West, and just the secrecy just boggles my mind. First of all, the city is a public entity. The mayor's office, city council doesn't own the city. The people of the city of Portland own the city.
 You guys work for the city. The city attorney's office works for the city. If someone in the city wants some kind of documents, regardless if it's from the city attorney or not, they should be able to get those documents. I'm somewhat shocked at the way the city's been handling things lately. In my civil case, I showed a man in a fritz when I was injured, not last November but November before that.
 Hospital documentation, city attorney goes, well, the city's not responsible for what the Portland police does. When they announce everyone into the center of the street, you're all under arrest, and then they arrest protesters for standing in the street after the officers told people to get into the street. City attorney goes, well, they voluntarily were arrested. Right.
 The thing is, you're asking us to trust you guys, and you guys have constantly sat there and showed that we can't trust you. We can't trust that those documents, that what happens later on when there's a legal thing going on, and the city attorney goes, well, I'm sorry, we don't want to produce those documents. Those documents are not legal.
 people's individual documents, they're the city of Portland. They're owned by the public. They're not owned by the mayor's office. They're not owned by the city council's office. They're owned by every person in the city of Portland. The people of the city of Portland pay their taxes to make sure that
 everything's taken care of okay that should also include any documents that the city of port that people want filing filing this appeal is ridiculous what you're saying is you're saying well we we want confidentiality when there shouldn't be confidentiality you you guys are responsible to the public the city attorney's office is responsible to the public you know
 Well, how can you be responsible to the public if the public can't see what you're doing? I mean, to me, there should be no appeal. The DA's office was right, and I hate to say it, they were right. You know, the people of the city of Portland deserve better than what they're getting. They don't deserve confidentiality. They don't deserve confidential meetings. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else want to speak on this? Yes.
 So further discussion? The secrecy rules, Court. Let's take a vote, please, then, on the resolution. Fritz?
 Thank you. Thank you for bringing this. This is an important principle. There are many important principles at stake here. To me, attorney-crime privilege is somewhat sacrosanct. The United States Supreme Court, in my understanding, has ruled that it survives the death of the client, it survives the attorney leaving the firm, it survives all kinds of what-ifs later. It's forever. And that's the United States Supreme Court has said that.
 So what we're asking for is parity on attorney-client privilege. I also liken it to the patient-provider confidentiality in health care. We're not individualized. Hey, hey, hey. Let her speak. I'm no longer a health care provider, but I still do not reveal personal information about people that I worked with. And it's distracting when people yell because I lose my train of thought. Okay.
 No. One more time and you'll be excluded. She gets a right to speak just like you did. Commissioner Fish's example of Superfund is a really good one in that it's quite likely that it won't be resolved within 25 years and that privileged communications between counsel and attorneys would then be available to the public and to other parties in the conflict. So the natural outcome,
 conclusion if there's until unless we can get clarification from the legislature is that attorney-client advice to the council will become oral only there will be no documentation of it for in case that could then be used in again against the city in future cases
 And as a council member who's not likely to be on for the next 25 years, I want to be able to ask my attorney, our attorney, the council's attorney, for the advice that they gave to previous councils and to have some record of it. It's going to be really difficult for future councils if there's no record because that advice might have been so sensitive that it wasn't written down. Yeah.
 So I think it's an important clarification that needs to be asked. I believe there is a conflict between the different state statutes, and it's reasonable for us to ask for that clarification. Aye. Yes. Commissioner Fritz, that was such a succinct and thoughtful statement, I'm loathe to add to it, but I would just add one point. Someone who testified admonished us not to dictate somehow the outcome of this. Let's be clear.
 The procedure has been established by the legislature, and this is how it works. If there's a disagreement about a public record, it goes to the district attorney, who based on limited submissions from the party, makes his or her best ruling. The law says that if either party, the citizen or the government, think the district attorney, who last I checked doesn't fall within the zone of infallible, got it wrong,
 Either party has the right to go to an impartial judge. Mr. Walsh, you of all people, it seems to me, would be celebrating the fact that impartial judges decide these questions. Don't use my name unless you're going to the House. No, hey, he gets to say whatever he wants. Mr. Walsh, he's speaking. You're not. Don't use my name. He was talking to Joe Walsh. We should celebrate having independent judges decide these questions because that's the very issue we're going to take up later today about a judge's ruling.
 So what we have been asked to do by our attorneys is to ask a judge, an impartial judge, based on the information from both sides to tell us clearly whether we are required to turn over documents, sensitive documents covered by an attorney-client privilege after 25 years. It's a very narrow question. And if a court...
 disagrees with our view of this, I think we should take it up with the legislature. And for the very reason Commissioner Fritz alluded to, and that is Superfund. And I think it would be substantially prejudicial to the public interest for us to turn over confidential opinions from our attorneys about liability and strategy in Superfund, which the polluters in that case that are perfectly happy to stick us with all the liability could use against us,
 In that instance, and I regret that people don't sort of embrace the obvious logic of that, but I think it's worthy of having an independent judge tell us yay or nay, and I think it's entirely appropriate, and it's exactly what the law contemplates. So I vote aye. Saltzman? I appreciate this discussion. I have a lot of respect for our district attorney, Rod Underhill, but I do believe, given this discussion, we have a valid issue to appeal for an impartial opinion. Aye. Novick?
 I agree with all the policy arguments that my colleagues have made, and I respect the city attorney's office, and I signed on to considering this matter today. But I have to say, just looking at the statutory language, which where 495 says, notwithstanding ORS 501 to 505, and it's 502 that exempts public records or information that is closure, which is prohibited, restricted, or otherwise made confidential or privileged under Oregon law,
 I just don't see a way around this, and I think that the law should be changed to make it clear that attorney-client privilege is attorney-client privilege. But given the law as it currently reads, I vote no. Nails.
 Well, I had some reservations and still do about whether we should move forward with this, but I'm persuaded by the council's discussion, so I appreciate my colleagues' analysis of this. I think it's going to have to get resolved by the legislature. I don't think this is going to get resolved in court. But if our attorneys want to go get a judge's decision as at least one step in the process of resolving the conflict between the two statutes, then that's a reasonable step to take. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, with the council's permission, I'm going to actually change the order and take up the time certain item because we have a couple of earnest volunteers here whose time is going to be demanded a lot by the city, and they're here this morning using their time again. So we'll get back to it, but we're going to take item 35 now and return to that. Item 35, appoint Eli Spivak and Katie Larcell to the Planning and Sustainability Commission for a term to expire on January 15, 2019.
 I want to invite those two wonderful citizens to come forward because it's with great enthusiasm that we bring this action here to the council today to appoint these two folks to our Planning and Sustainability Commission. We're grappling now with how to grow and how to grow a lot and also to do it in a livable environment.
 equitable way and I can't think frankly of two people who its commitment to those ideals and practical ideas for how to make it work could come along in a better time as we know we spent a lot of time with Katie she's a member of our citywide budget advisory committee but she was also a charter member of the East Portland action plan of a
 consistent advocate for East Portland in all things, but also able to see the whole picture of the whole city. Eli Spivak serves on our residential infill projects stakeholder advisory committee. He's the owner of Orange Spot LLC, which specializes in small, sustainable development.
 thinks a lot about affordability and how to make it real in our city. So we think the combination of these two people coming onto the Planning Commission is just in time. So thank you both for being willing to serve and give you a chance to say anything you'd like and then answer any questions the council might have. I'm sorry. My colleague, my commissioner on the committee, has a laryngitis, so she can't speak. Katie is rarely silent, but this time. She pointed out in our training that she speaks very well.
 Little right now.
 I didn't know there was a time to speak, so I think I will let you guys continue on with other business. But I'm honored to be serving on the Commission and look forward to having that role a little bit on the inside. I've been on the outside for a long time, and we'll see how it goes. Mayor, can I make a couple comments? Please. So first of all, I want to applaud the Mayor for bringing this forward and for nominating both of you. Katie, after the Mayor listed all your credentials and all the work you've done, I was thinking that the only thing missing was no good deed goes unpunished.
 You've given us all this time and now we're going to double down. Each of you, I think, brings a unique voice and perspective to planning. I just want to encourage two points. Katie, you've been relentless in your focus on parts of the city that have left behind and parts of the city where a one size fits all doesn't quite work.
 And I think that's an important voice both in the comp plan discussion and in the hard work that follows the comp plan and in looking at all of our built environment, zoning, land use proceedings, asking the question, are there parts of the city where we have to be a little more flexible in the look and the design and the like, taking into account different historical patterns? And should we at least be open to considering alternatives? Yes.
 And, Eli, one of the things in the last few years that I feel we've tried to tackle but probably fallen a little short is figuring out how we promote a smaller footprint home and at the same time, in doing so, restructure the regulatory framework so that our policies don't, in effect, discourage the development of smaller footprints. So, for example, I was heartened that Commissioner Fritz, when she brought forth her proposal for parks SDCs,
 She tailored them in such a way that if you had a footprint below 700 square feet, there was an affirmative kind of incentive around that footprint. And in the past, we've been encouraged to encourage smaller footprint, less expensive, more sustainable kinds of housing, more flexible housing arrangements. But our code often worked at cross-purposes.
 I think you're uniquely positioned to help us look at things like SDCs and regulations and other things so that we're not working like this across purposes, but if we really want to have smaller footprint, more environmentally friendly, green, sustainable housing,
 and co-housing and some of the things that you've pioneered, how do we make sure our code supports it and doesn't work in cross-purposes? So I'm excited about both of your nominations, but I think each of you brings a unique perspective that will be very helpful on that commission. Thank you. Other comments or questions for our two nominees? We'll have to get Katie to write down her responses under the circumstances.
 I think there's a lot that the planning department can do to help affordable housing more than has happened so far. So I hope that there's a role for the commission on that. And also a little thank you to our partners who are with us here, because this is a lot of time commitment. So it takes other people handling other things in our lives to serve on it. Yes, it does. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you both very much for being here today. We'll see if anyone wants to speak on this report before we take action on it. So thank you both. Thanks for coming. Yes, come on up.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Again, for the record, Charles Johnson. And I do want to apologize in part to Commissioner Fritz for my previous interruptions. It's a hotly contested issue whether governments and corporations should have the same rights as individuals. I think generally she and I are on the same page, but she was elected to protect the city government's interest, and there will be contentious matters, so I apologize to her for my outbursts.
 As for the entire city's attorney's office, we'll deal with that when the other agenda item comes in. The reason I came up here, though, is because we're missing something that has happened, and city government is a bit of an octopus with many more tentacles than that. In the past few months, the people of Portland have tried to bully the developers through the volunteers on the tree commission. So the pro-developer people on the tree commission resigned, four of them,
 That relates to this agenda item because we're talking about recruiting public members to assist this council and the city in developing sensible development policies, planning and sustainability. So I hope that regardless of the new designation of COCOA members as public officials, I hope that the people that have just been appointed will not feel that they're
 free speech is constrained when they talk about the important issue of how we can protect the tree canopy and make sure that our tree commission is full of people who realize that
 For the sake of quality of life, even though density may be important, we cannot go around slaughtering trees to line the pockets of developers. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. This is Nancy Newell. I have very long experience in energy efficiency and promoted it for many years. We're now the lead in the Northwest in our energy efficiency capacity and the rate we're doing it.
 We have a very big problem with the nuclear plant on the river up in Hanford. It directly relates to this council because you're paying bills that provides that service. We do not need that plant. It's very dangerous. The risk now, because the grid has been compromised throughout the United States, and we need to –
 get to further energy efficiencies as fast as we can, and if we close that plant, we capture 1,200 megawatts. And we can do that. The report has been issued by the Northwest...
 what's it called the northwest energy coalition i believe it's called it's got 300 member organizations that are experts and after trojan led the lead and that's why this city has such a tremendous record on energy efficiency when we close trojan so it's all logical all we need is a resolution agreeing with that out of this council and if you want to keep doing the great stuff i think it would be a wonderful move thank you thank you very much thank you both okay is there a motion to adopt the report i'll move second second further discussion roll call please
 Thank you very much for your willingness to serve, and thank you to your partners also for being willing to support that. Aye. Thanks to both Eli and Katie for agreeing to serve. Thank you, Mayor. These are tremendous nominations, and I'm delighted to support this application. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I also want to thank you, Mayor. I think these are two outstanding appointments to our Planning and Sustainability Commission, Eli and Katie both. Thank you.
 very smart people. I think Eli has provided me with lots of insights on how our comp plan can support affordable housing. And I hope we will address some of those issues when we adopt the comp plan. But I do think that, you know, Katie with her longstanding roots in East Portland and Eli just is knowing both the development side of the world and well, as well as land use and socially responsible are just two outstanding appointments.
 And my respect and esteem for the Planning and Sustainability Commission has only grown as we labor through comp plan hearings on micro issues that are very hard, I think, for us to track. And I know that they tracked and dealt with all these issues. And I really respect the amount of time they devote. And I'm glad that they both brought their partners here today because it is a very demanding time experience. But we appreciate it. Hi. Novick.
 It's an honor to live in a city where people like Eli and Katie are willing to serve the public for free time and time again. I think I first talked to Katie about 10 years ago when she was one of the first school board members I called to get help in opposing a right-wing ballot measure in 2006.
 and I've had the pleasure of working with her numerous times since then. Eli Spivak presented perhaps the most fascinating chart I've seen in three years at our comp plan hearing a couple of weeks ago. I really look forward to having them in the commission. Hi. Hi.
 This is the biggest volunteer job in the city at the most important time in our history, or at least one of those most important times, because we're going to grow by 200,000 people, we're told, over the next 20 years, add 140,000 jobs, and not physically change the size of the city in order to accomplish all that. That's a big deal. And what you're willing to take on is really important work, so thank you. And again, to your partners, because there are a lot of hours involved.
 A couple of admonitions that I always try to deliver to the Planning and Sustainability Commission about how this work goes. One, I think it's important to remember that every plan is a plan for things to stay the same and a plan for things to change. And we have to sort out which are which and how we get the result we want in each case. There are some things about Portland that we love, that we want to keep, that we want to defend, that we want to preserve. How do we do that through planning and regulations?
 And then there's some things that we know we need to change in order to be the city that we want to be and to be clear about that. Secondly, the other principle that I always try to articulate to the Planning Commission is that their job is to get some of the proposals they bring forward to somewhere around the 85th percentile. This is not a rubber stamp council that expects to just have all the work done by the Planning Commission and where we simply go through an exercise of listening to people and then adopt.
 your recommendations. We expect you to get something close to what we think is the ultimate document and then shape it further in public testimony. And it happens here all the time when people show up and are surprised that they can still make their case about their property, about their neighborhood, or about the city in general and have the council say, you know, that person's right. We're going to make a change here. And that's good. That's not indicating bad work by the Planning Commission. It's indicating a healthy public process, and that's why we have two layers for the effort.
 And finally, the one most recent admonition I guess I would give to the Planning Commission is as I've worked on the Comp Plan and as we've had hearings, I think it's an excellent piece of work, but I am looking in several places to make the document even bolder because I think there are some cases where maybe not so much the Commission but the staff were trying to be cautious.
 in some of the aspects of this plan, given the challenges that we're facing, we have to be pretty bold because we won't get the future we want if we're not under the pressures that we're facing.
 So I would also say just don't hold back. You know, get us your best shot at what you think the future should be and let us figure out the politics rather than try to give us a place of safety. If we wanted safety, we wouldn't have volunteered for these jobs just like you wouldn't have volunteered for that one. Thank you very much, and we're looking forward to your service. Aye. Aye.
 Okay. Let's now return, please, to Item 47. I want to give Commissioner Salsman a chance to make some opening comments. Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to speak about why I support bringing this resolution and why I'm urging my colleagues to pursue an appeal in Joseph Walsh v. Bryant Eng. First off, this is not directly about Mr. Walsh. And let me be clear, while we may disagree on much of the business situation,
 that we conduct here. I absolutely support his and other citizens' rights to testify and express disagreement in these chambers. Secondly, this is not about decorum or hurt feelings. We all know democracy is messy. My staff take in hateful speech of all stripes every week and have a thick skin, but they also have the right to come to work in an environment free of discrimination, harassment, or retaliation of any kind.
 This is about the precedent of this ruling severely limiting the council's ability to exclude persons for violent, threatening, or intimidating behavior. This ruling should be chilling to everyone, including Mr. Walsh, who should be able to come here and redress their government safely. This appeal is not about limiting free speech. It's about encouraging it. We've had many violent and disruptive things happen in this building and in these chambers.
 In recent months, an unknown man with a knife menaced city employees near the back steps of this building. There have been telephonic death threats to multiple offices in this building that have gone unprosecuted. I have other examples, but most distressing to me was what happened on November 25th, about six weeks ago, in these very chambers. City business was disrupted with shouts and aggressive behavior, furniture being knocked over, and amidst all the screaming and distraction...
 Someone planted a backpack with a beeping smoke detector in it. I don't know if this was a hoax, but I have no doubt the intention was to invoke fear. I support this resolution to square with the reality of our present-day environment. Here and across the country, in our own state, this very moment, dismay with government, has reached new levels. And this is the environment that we live in. And while I signed up for it, the employees in the building did not.
 and neither did the public or members of the press that come here with a reasonable expectation of safety. Recently, a city employee in an email said, it's very difficult for those of us who have open offices and open doors to feel secure in our building. For this reason, we must absolutely reserve the right to prospectively exclude people from city buildings for valid reasons. Now, I'm not a constitutional scholar, but I served many years with somebody who is.
 commissioner randy leonard used to sit on the very seat that commissioner novick serves in now and while randy and i disagreed on a lot of issues i certainly respect his knowledge of the constitution and his history and one thing i learned from him was justice oliver wendell holmes in a ruling said free speech has limits you don't have the right to cry fire in a theater and i think that's true for us today as we consider this appeal we must act to protect
 and have the ability to control violent, aggressive behavior directed towards us or people who work in this building or our public who comes to these meetings. So I thank you for your consideration. Harry Auerbach and Dan Simon are here, obviously, to provide any perspectives they wish, and I would urge approval. Thank you, Mayor. Please, Council. I don't think I can add much to what Commissioner Salsman said, so I'm happy to answer any questions you have.
 Is the ruling about city council meetings or about exclusions from city buildings? It's fairly broad, actually. And I'll let Dan speak about that a little. But basically, the ordinance you have, the city code provision, authorizes the mayor or his designee to exclude persons from city property. And that ordinance has been enjoined in its entirety to prohibit prospective exclusions.
 That's correct, Commissioner Fritz, members of the council. What the decision of the judge in that case was, was that the code provision as written is unenforceable. So at this point, there is an injunction granted against the entire enforcement of that provision.
 So it seems to me those are two different things, that people expressing their views however loudly and potentially obnoxiously in city council is different from threats of violence either in council chambers or in city offices. And I'm wondering if the appeal could be, either the appeal could be narrowed or could we quite quickly change city code to distinguish between those two things? Excuse me. Yeah.
 Sort of, yeah. I think the answer to your question is yes, both parts. We are – I think, first of all, I don't think anybody, certainly the judge didn't suggest that you can't exclude people from your meetings when they disrupt your meeting. The only issue is can you – if somebody disrupts your meeting today, can you –
 Do you have to let them come back and disrupt your next meeting before you exclude them again? That's not my question. My question is for somebody who threatens violence. And we will certainly make that argument. We will make that argument. Does the ruling encompass both scenarios? Yes, the ruling simply prohibits you from enforcing that ordinance at all. My contention would be that somebody losing their temper today doesn't necessarily indicate they're going to lose it again next week. But whereas somebody who says, I'm going to kill you no matter how long it takes—
 should indeed have some time where they're not coming in on a daily basis to tell me that they're going to kill me. Right, and I understand that, and we will certainly make that argument. The thing I would say is that it is true that one person might simply have a bad day today and, if excluded on day one, may get the hint and conform his or her behavior differently.
 the next time around. Some people, frankly, don't do that, and you wind up having to serially exclude people who come and disrupt your proceedings
 frequently. Well, we do, but that's disruption and that's disrespectful to other citizens who might be waiting to testify, but it's not a threat of danger. So does our code currently allow us to exclude people prospectively who are dangerous? Yes, it does, except it allows you to exclude people who violate the rules of conduct established for city buildings, and those include disruptive, threatening, violent...
 behavior, among other things. Could the council establish a policy that we uphold free speech and although we are concerned about disruption of council meetings because of that impact on other citizens that...
 That will be subject to exclusion for the day, whereas for people who have threatened bodily harm to source city employees, we may continue to exclude for certain periods of time. We are happy to review the code and propose amendments that will accomplish that for you. We will do that. We would prefer to have to…
 well we think it's in your interest let me say this this is your your decision they're your meetings it's your ordinance so what you do about it is up to you it's not up to me but our advice is that you should do that on a parallel track with with an appeal of this decision because we think the consequences for you are significant
 As well as the previous one, is there a particular timeline by which we have to appeal? Yes. The appeal must be filed by the end of the month. It's 30 days from the date of the judgment. So it's not as immediate as the previous one where we had seven days. No, it's not as immediate as the public records one.
 Thank you. So let me make sure I understand the judge's ruling. That is, under the judge's ruling, our ability to both exclude people for disruptive behavior in council chambers and to exclude people for threatening behavior are both encompassed by this decision? The judge made no distinction between those two scenarios? Yes.
 Let's ask the lawyer who argued the case. No, he did not, Mayor Ailes. Okay. Did we make that distinction? We attempted to, Commissioner Fisher. Let me ask you a question. If someone engages in disruptive behavior in a courtroom, what's the judge's recourse? Well, as...
 Dan pointed out in the briefing in this case, the judge can exclude a person from the courthouse. We cited to Judge Simon a case from his own court in which another judge had upheld the exclusion of a person from the Washington County Courthouse who persistently disrupted proceedings in the courthouse. And that was upheld.
 That's for disruptive behavior. But to Commissioner Fritz's point, when it goes beyond just disruptive speech to conduct which is threatening, and doesn't that violate other law? And we're talking about this tool of using exclusion. But if someone threatens bodily harm, don't we have laws around assault and battery and attempted harm and things? And can't they also be prosecuted? They can't.
 And in fact, I believe there is such a prosecution arising against at least one individual out of the events that Commissioner Salzman was referring to from November. That whether that is. Yes, they can. Harry, does this ruling I'm just a little unclear about the scope of this ruling. Does this ruling prevent the city from issuing?
 exclusions to people in other settings, like parks and other purposes? This ruling does not. The ruling is directed only against the...
 Provision in Title III, the ruling does not affect the park exclusion code, which is in Title 20. And the consequence of this ruling is that if Citizen X comes in and is disruptive and ignores the mayor's admonition and is warned, Citizen X can be excluded from the meeting but can come back next week. That is correct. Or next day. Or the next day.
 We may have some disagreement about that, but yes. Depends on how you define meeting. So let's talk about the case law for a second. I asked you this question when we met yesterday. Has any court squarely addressed this question? In the sense of public meetings –
 Prospective exclusions have not specifically been addressed that I could find. That's correct. The Supreme Court of the United States has held that you can prospectively exclude people from public forums, streets and parks, for violating rules of conduct, for violating law, for non-speech related purposes.
 So our belief is that that rule should hold in this public forum as it did in the Virginia v. Hicks case from the Supreme Court. If the council chose to change its code to build in, let's say, an escalator clause so that there's a difference between the first disruption and chronic disruption and its cumulative –
 Do you believe, based on the judge's ruling, that that could have an impact on at least how Judge Simon views this case? Well, if we were to pursue that course, we would then probably go back and ask Judge Simon to lift the injunction. I do not pretend to be able to read Judge Simon's mind, and I don't know whether he would
 he would then believe that we had sufficient protections, whether that would then pass constitutional muster or not. But I do think it would enhance its defensibility if we had to go further to the Ninth Circuit. And what's your general view on the following question? Under our constitution, the state constitution, we have a very broadly written First Amendment.
 It's quite unique actually compared to a lot of other states. Did the federal courts accord more protection for what's purely speech or for speech that crosses the line into something that's unlawful and therefore constitutional criminal protections attached? I'm not quite sure I follow the question.
 So speech that is not protected speech because it involves threats of violence and other things is looked at one way by the courts. That's correct. Pure speech is looked at another way. Which is entitled to greater protection? Well, pure speech. I mean, so there's the First Amendment. The courts have interpreted the First Amendment to protect most speech, but there is nothing
 some speech that historically has been held to be unprotected, actual threats primarily, clear and present dangers that the test the courts used. Both the federal courts and the Oregon courts recognize that the government can impose some limits on free speech. They just analyze them somewhat differently, although they're
 I think, less differently than they used to. They analyze them somewhat differently, but basically recognize that the government has legitimate interests that sometimes require it to impose limitations of one kind or another on the time, manner, and place in which people speak. But we don't regulate the subject matter of people's speech. We try to avoid all kinds of content-based restrictions primarily.
 There doesn't seem to be a claim in this case that any action taken by the city was a pretext for punishing speech, the content of speech. Is that correct? Right. Mr. Walsh can speak to that himself, but no. The judge issued a ruling. But no, there was no contention. The judge found that your ordinance is, in fact, content neutral. All right. Thank you. So are we currently continuing to exclude people who have been threatening to anybody? No.
 I do not know what people are actually doing. I think our advice is not to until we get this clarified, at least under the Title III code. Does the ruling apply to the city council or to us?
 delegates as well because my understanding is for example that the office of neighborhood involvement being righted by the entrance of City Hall and occasionally helps folks who are having some significant difficulties no it applies to the city as a municipal corporation all of us thank you so Harry just to be clear about the options before us today we can support this resolution we can oppose the resolution
 We have until January 29th actually to decide the question so we could continue this discussion if the council wanted to see whether there's a broader consensus around one approach or another. And then there's a related question about whether linked to this appeal or independently, we want to take a look at revising our code to address some of the concerns that the council has and the court has. Is that correct? Yes. If we were to appeal it, would that stay the judge's order? I...
 I believe we would have to move for his stay, and we could certainly do that. I don't know if he would grant one or if the Ninth Circuit would grant one if he denied it. But it would not – I'll go back and double-check, but my belief is it would not automatically stay the ruling. So I could support some version of this that is amended to talk about clear and present danger, as opposed to what's stated in it right now, which is –
 which addresses almost entirely speech within the council chamber. I wasn't aware that this decision also applied to the safety of our employees.
 So at the very least, I'd like to carry it over so that we could work on amending the language so that when we appeal to the judge, it's clear that, and I think we need to have some more conversation about and hear from the public in terms of what their view is as to how to keep city employees safe versus their right to make our lives as unpleasant verbally as they would like to do.
 i'm interested in that as well there are two as this discussion is illustrated and dan's remarks highlighted there are two really separate questions here one is how do i or any other presiding officer in this chamber deal with obnoxious behavior in the chamber in which somebody monopolizes the room for their own speech making or otherwise doesn't follow the rules that's one issue
 and there needs to be a process by which people are excluded who are not letting other people speak. That can be episodic, or that can have some duration. That's one question. The other question is if there are people who need to be excluded because they're dangerous or potentially dangerous, that's a completely separate matter to me. We need to address both. We don't need to necessarily address both with the same ordinance language.
 So it seems to me that ordinance repair is in order regardless of what we do with this appeal, but that we need to fix our ordinance so that we lay down more clearly, and we'll go defend that once we've debated it, heard from the public, and adopted. Whatever process we need to operate under in this chamber so that people can be heard and that people aren't,
 rude, obnoxious, or dilatory in taking over the room for their own agenda versus letting us conduct the public business and hear from people in some kind of order. That needs to be resolved. The judge has said the way we do that now is not acceptable. Fine. Let's fix that.
 And I don't know whether we have to fix that by going to court or by working on our ordinance. Secondly, if the judge's ruling is so sweeping that it invades the common sense matter of making sure that people that are issuing violent threats aren't routinely allowed into a building that doesn't otherwise have perimeter security like most government buildings have, then that's a serious problem.
 And other government agencies respond to that potential threat by having metal detectors and such at their doors. And we in this city, at least for now, have not. So we've got to address that question. And Commissioner Salzman is right to highlight it, and it's important. But those are very different matters. And I guess those are my feelings about the issue. I'm interested in...
 Having this discussion today and having further discussion at the council level and then deciding on the resolution. But I'm also interested in getting some work started and some discussion started about our ordinance. We'll do that. We might need a better ordinance to defend in court than the one we apparently are operating on. I appreciate your comments, and I appreciate Commissioner Fritz's comments. I had a chance to meet with council yesterday afternoon and then got some follow-up.
 information. And the thing that I've struggled with is a lack of clarity about what we're approaching and in the context of a very important set of questions governed ultimately by the First Amendment. So just to give you an analogy, if this was not fully baked but was a routine policy question that came before council, we would all vote just the way we felt about it. And if there's a split vote, so be it.
 This is a little different. This goes to how we do our business as a body, in which case our general rule is we seek consensus. We seek to find the broadest possible support. Second, ultimately, it's governed under a very high bar, a standard set under the Constitution that Judge Simon addressed. And one of the concerns that I've had is, absent that broader discussion and understanding all the options,
 And with the First Amendment being the touchstone, my inclination would be to vote no if I couldn't be persuaded. So the additional time to find out if we can narrow this or come up with a strategy that gets at the real problem is helpful for me because...
 because my default would be to go the other way, and I am very appreciative of Commissioner Saltzman's comments about safety, public safety, and that's different than pure speech. Right, exactly. Okay, other questions, comments, concerns, raise with staff, and let's take testimony. I just want to thank Commissioner Novick for his defense of city employees. I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who's signed up to speak, please?
 We've got six people signed up. The first three please come on up are Joe Walsh, Matt Dos Santos, and Craig Rogers. Go ahead, Joe. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice, and I am the plaintiff in this case. I am amazed that it was obvious that many of you did not read this decision because you don't know what the judge said. It's very simple.
 It's 28 pages long, but it's simple. A politician cannot sit in his office and make a decision to exclude somebody that he doesn't like. That's it. Because if you look at the timeline, when I was thrown out, a week later I was served with the papers. So it's kind of like getting me twice. You throw me out.
 You threaten me with arrest, and then you exclude me for 60 days. That was arrogant. That was obnoxious. That had nothing to do with people fearing for their safety, Commissioner. There is nothing in the record. And I really resent you saying that. Point to the record. Outside of one person giving testimony to the G4S people...
 And that was the business alliance representative who really disliked me because I disliked them. And they know it. And they said, I was really terrified. So I had a security guard take me to the front door. And where was Mr. Walsh? He was on the street. So how could she be so terrified? I wasn't even in the building, and she had to pass me in the street.
 There is nothing in the record. I am a very nonviolent person, mouthy, obnoxious, pushy. I'll take those because that's what activists do. We don't look for making friends. I once told that to Commissioner Fritz. I don't want to be your friend. I want you to put your head down when I walk into this council and say, oh, damn, that's what I want. That's what a good activist does.
 I'm not an advocate. I'm not a diplomat. I throw rocks. And, Mayor, you do not have dictatorial powers. Sorry, not only Joe Wall says that, but Judge Simon says that. And if you want to appeal this case, Commissioner Salzman, you're going to get egg all over your face because there is not a court in the land that would appeal or give you the decision that you want
 In the First Amendment. And you all, the lawyers have it wrong. It's not free speech. That's part of the First Amendment. It's the last part. That I have a right to come here and yell at you. It's called petitioning for grievances. I have a right to do that. The Constitution says I have a right to do it. It's not some backroom deal that you can do, Mayor.
 And I sent you a request in the beginning of this whole process for settlement. And you know what I asked for? A public apology and all exclusions from the city hall building stopped. That's what I asked for. What did the judge say? Permanent injunction stopped. Will you give me an apology? No, because you don't have the ability to do it. Thank you. Next. Good morning, Commissioners, Council. Good morning.
 My name is Craig Rogers, and before the street fee, I'd rarely appear down here at City Council, but I've been getting a little bit more dialed in. And after a while, I began to understand that coming events cast their shadows before them, and I felt that, regrettably, some members of council, under certain circumstances, were not all advocates of the right to vote or freedom of speech.
 So here we are now with a First Amendment issue. And I feel that in the case of Mr. Walsh, it's somewhat making a mountain out of a molehill. And this is going down a road that I don't think we should continue. And what it reminds me of is when Tip O'Neill, Speaker of the House, said this of Nixon. He's a lousy president, but he'd make a hell of a king.
 thank you good morning commissioners my name is matt dos santos and i'm the legal director of the aclu of oregon thank you for allowing me to speak here this morning
 It will likely come as no surprise that we're here today to urge you not to vote for Resolution 47. We think that U.S. District Court Judge Michael Simon got it right when he held it unconstitutional under the First Amendment to exclude members of the public from future city council meetings. Thank you.
 The City of Portland has long sought to have its democratic process open and accessible to all members of the Portland community. And we think that this kind of exclusion hurts the City of Portland by creating barriers of access and transparency. We acknowledge that for the government to work, it may be appropriate to remove a disruptive person temporarily from City Council proceedings.
 The ACLU doesn't believe that free speech should trump the City Council being able to do its work safely. But there are options other than long-term prospective exclusions. In fact, Judge Simon covered this very point in his opinion when he said, like judges in their courtrooms, Mayor Hales has the continuing ability to maintain decorum in council meetings by ordering a disruptive individual immediately to leave the City Council chambers.
 Maintaining decorum does not, however, require prolonged and prospective exclusions from a forum intended for a public discourse and debate. I would also add that we are not aware of any appellate decision favoring the city's case, so the city will have a long uphill battle, especially at the Ninth Circuit. For these reasons, we hope that you will not pass this resolution to appeal the U.S. District Court decision today.
 And although we haven't been involved in this case at the trial level, it would be fair to assume that the ACLU of Oregon has a strong interest in any future legal proceedings. Thank you. Mr. Nocentis, I totally agree with what you just said. And I respect everybody's right to come in and be as disruptive as they want for three minutes and as often as they want.
 Could you address the second part of the concern about safety and people who are actively threatening to hurt us or city employees and whether a prospective restriction on their visiting city offices in that case might actually be better for them than prosecuting them for those threats? Yes.
 So I appreciate your sentiment there, and I certainly don't want to add to the criminalization of anyone in the city of Portland. I think that a simple fix to the ordinance would create exactly what you're trying to do, which is to identify, as I think Mayor Hales stated, a
 A distinction between something like city council meetings where people are disruptive and stuff that creates an actual threat, that is not protected by the First Amendment, has never been. And I think it was Commissioner Saltzman who made reference to the screaming fire in a theater. That kind of thing is not protected by the First Amendment.
 So here, while the judge's order may strike down that ordinance, the ordinance is too broad. And I think there's a quick fix and a way to resolve that without undoing Judge Simon's order. I really appreciate what you just said because I was looking at some notes that Harry gave me about –
 a Supreme Court case that seems to apply. So what we're essentially saying is that if – what I think you're saying is that if we come up with a tailored rule which focuses on non-expressive conduct, we're out from under the First Amendment, and now it's just a question about how reasonable we are in implementing. Is that fair? I think that's a fair statement. And the case that I guess is in the opinion is the Virginia v. Hicks case where the Supreme Court upheld –
 a, I guess, a permanent bar from someone from coming into a court and made a distinction between non-expressive conduct, conduct that was threatening and disruptive,
 and speech, and then also identified alternative ways that someone could still participate, either electronically or through surrogates. So I appreciate the advice you've given us to take a look at narrowing our statute, our code, so that it captures the non-expressive conduct clearly not covered by the First Amendment. Thank you.
 where we might want to use an exclude we might want to consider using exclusion in lieu of the heavy hand of a criminal prosecution to someone who's engaging in not just annoying speech but
 legally unprotected speech. Yeah, I think that's right. And I think that there's an important distinction between a courtroom and a city council chamber, which I think you'll run up against if you litigate this case further. So, I mean, take that for what you will, because obviously, I can't also read the tea leaves of what the Ninth Circuit will say, but courts have historically treated...
 courtrooms differently than they've treated city meetings. Article 3 judges just have a sense that their lives are worth a little bit more than the random legislature? There you go. So, Mr. DeSantos, appreciate your testimony. So, going back to the real situation we experienced on November 25th, a backpack with a smoke detector in it left in the chambers. What should be the consequence for that behavior? Yeah.
 See you tomorrow? I mean, you're gone for the rest of the day, but we'll see you tomorrow? So I think that the judge addresses this when he talks about things that are, you know, well, let me backpedal a little bit. There are a couple of tiers here that we're talking about. We're talking about...
 actual disruptions at a meeting, something like someone screaming out and preventing people from talking. And we think those should be regulatable. Yeah, those are regulatable in the moment. Say, completely hypothetical situation, someone laying on the floor of the council chambers mooing loudly, prohibiting other people from speaking, you would regard that as behavior that it would be reasonable for us to regulate? Yeah, I think you could. And perhaps exclude someone for doing that. Yeah.
 I think you could. For that day. For the day. OK. For that day. Something like creating a bomb threat, I don't think you'd find a court that would protect that as speech.
 There may be an instance where there is some kind of, I mean, look, I can get into hypothetical situations with you, where there may be some instance where someone is creating some kind of artistic installation or something along those lines. But what you just described sounds pretty threatening. And I think that you could have a cogent argument that that is not protected speech. Yeah.
 And so that actually wouldn't come under the auspice of this order. That would be a completely separate thing that you could handle regardless of what Judge Simon said. I mean, that's a little different from what our attorneys told us, but I appreciate your opinion. I would like to make a final comment since I am the person involved in this. Your example, Commissioner Salzman, has nothing to do with me.
 Please keep it to me because that's what this case is about. We can't do that because we have to change the ordinance, so it won't justify it. No, you don't have to do anything right now. You may have to change your ordinance between now and next week. But I'm saying if you say to me, well, Mr. Walsh, you're very disruptive, and we just had an explosion in Iraq and killed three people, and we have to do something. That's the connection you're making. I had nothing to do with that.
 And as Judge Simon said in his decision, there is nothing in the entire record that your city attorney submitted, which was mounds, that shows, number one, that I was threatening. Number two, that the worst possible thing that I said in foul language was I was pissed off. That's it.
 Mr. Walsh, the case is about you. The ruling is about all city exclusions, including for safety. You brought that on yourself. When I went to federal court, you brought that on yourself. And if you vote on this to take it to the Ninth Circuit, and you can ask the ACLU this, it'll affect nine states. You'll make me a folk hero in nine states, and I'm too old for that. You're already a folk hero.
 Is that a nine states? Do you realize if you lost this case, how many lawyers would have to read it and say, what does that mean? Thank you. Okay. Next three are David Keefe Davis, Nancy Newell, and Robert West. Okay. Come on up. Go ahead, Mr. Davis. Thank you.
 Why does he leave every time I start to speak? I don't know what's up with that. Go ahead and speak. You know? So, Dan Saltzman, you were arguing like City Hall is a safe space or something that you can just exclude people for any type of speech that you don't like or you have anything to say about that? You're acting like...
 Someone saying some naughty words is a bomb threat. Like, what is this? Can you give us some more information on this person who supposedly left a backpack with this beeping sound?
 Mr. Davis, you need to testify, not cross-examine council members. I'm allowed to do whatever I want, actually. We're allowed to not answer, so go ahead. Yeah, I already know you guys are slimy and corrupt. That's what this whole thing is about. And it's all about limiting free speech at City Hall. It's not about your personal safety. Because some guy had a knife outside of City Hall a month ago or something? Is it?
 Sorry, that's not even in the building, okay? You can talk about, yeah, there was a gunshot. Wasn't there someone stabbed outside of City Hall a while ago? Yeah, too. Well, you know, you didn't bring up that either. You talk about, oh, someone left a backpack with a smoke detector. Well, let's hear more about this. I want to hear you guys actually. Let's see the surveillance footage, you know? I mean, let's see the altered surveillance footage of you guys
 When I got arrested with Barry Joe Stull on November 25th, you're talking about this November 25th issue. Well, what happened was there was a man in mental crisis mode, Barry Joe Stull, who's actually the guy who gave Joe Walsh
 the idea to appeal this thing to a federal judge. Okay? So I don't know if you guys know that or not, but I think Barry Joe Stull...
 was targeted by you guys and taken out of the council chambers. Amanda Fritz, you're a registered psychiatric nurse. You have plenty of experience dealing with mentally ill people. And you know Barry Jo Stull. And what did you do? You did not call the behavioral health unit. You did not call any...
 ambulance, what you did do is you ordered G4S security goons to clear the chambers, and then Todd Engstrom, a known instigator cop, showed up and proceeded to throw haymakers on Barry Jo Stull. So that, you guys need to release Barry Jo Stull out of prison. Go to the YouTube video, Portland's Abysmal Treatment.
 of journalists and the mentally ill. This is about excluding activists and voices of dissent at City Hall. This is not about your personal safety, and you know it. You don't want the lies and corruption and all this other stuff exposed that's actually going on here, and you don't want to be ridiculed by the general public. Okay, thank you. We're going to let the rest of the public speak now. Ms. Newell, you're next.
 Mr. Davis, you've used your time. We've got a citizen next to you who gets to speak now. Mr. Davis, you're done. Thank you. Ms. Newell, go ahead. Are we starting over? Go ahead, yes. I'm Nancy Newell. I want that on record. It's interesting that you quote the Supreme Court as a decision, and I would be very curious what we suffered during the Reagan as well as the Bush administration and the changes in our Supreme Court.
 So many of the rulings are really oppressive to public discourse, characterizing people as terrorists rather than citizens trying to protect rights that were established at the founding of our country. So I understand your feelings about safety.
 We ride buses, we ride trains, we de-escalate. You would be so proud of citizens doing de-escalation and trying to get to work and trying to get home, or women at night being subjected, and I have been subjected to police action just because I'm a woman on the streets and I'm in question. So these are very critical rights for people to function in their daily lives. And you're the protection of that, and you're the protection, I understand, of your own safety.
 But there's a limit to how much you should be acting on and still protecting the very basis of what this country is founded on. So I think Judge Simon has been very helpful in this latest decision, protecting First Amendment rights. There are a lot of things that the public can disagree on because if you're taking three-quarters of Americans are now paycheck to paycheck, three-quarters of Americans close to homelessness.
 I understand the pressures that you're under. I understand the limitations of funds that you have. But we really have to work better on de-escalation
 rather than removing people's civil rights. That doesn't work, and it'll just come back at you with more violence. And we're a violent society. We create way too many instruments of attacking people in our own streets, just regular citizens. So I would like to see remedies and some positive actions from this council to get better results in those protections. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next.
 I just put your name back in the record. Okay. My name is Robert West. I am like totally against appealing this. Uh, number one, everyone's talking safety and stuff like that. The backpack and stuff. That's what the police are for. Okay. If someone's in here threatening someone with a gun, you call the police. You don't exclude them for 30 days. If someone comes in here with a bomb, you call the police. You don't exclude them ever. The,
 Once the case goes to court, the judge can decide how long or if the person can never come back or something like that. As far as threatening people that work inside the building, that can be handled through anti-stalking or restraining orders or stuff like that.
 If someone feels that they're in danger, they've been threatened a few times, they can go get an anti-stalking order. A judge sits there and says, well, you can't go around this person. You can't go around where they work.
 Okay, there's there's other I mean you're throwing all these all these things. Well, yeah, there's a Smoke detector in a backpack. Okay, fine. That's illegal Okay, I see all these cameras all over the place well, you know the courts have ruled several times that you know video evidence can be used in court that can persuade a jury
 If I threw a backpack right here and said there was a bomb in it, right, and I took it to a jury trial, there's a camera there, there's a camera there, and there's probably a camera there and there, then there's probably a few cameras that I haven't even seen. I have G4S security on both sides, right? That would be convincing to a jury if they sat there and seen that on videotape. Right.
 If someone threw something at someone in here, I would expect the police to be called. So my issue with you guys arguing security, you're just looking for reasons to appeal what Judge Simon says. Okay? Keith Davis right here, sitting over here videotaping, is not grounds for exclusion for 60 days. Okay?
 Just because someone doesn't like what someone said or they go over their time, that's not worthy of a 30-day exclusion. You're punishing people for doing stuff that they have a constitutional right to do. And that's what the judge sat there and said. Excluding someone for 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, permanent, that is punishment. That is not...
 cool down period. A cool down period is a you're out, you know, if you come back and you do it again, then you're out that day. Thank you. Thanks very much. The last person who signed up is Charles Johnson. I'll wait for my mic. Thank you. Good morning city council members. My name is Charles Johnson and contrary to what Commissioner Schultzman is saying,
 The Reichstag fire did not happen on November 29th right here. What happened is that a political prisoner was created. I'm telling you again, the five of you created political prisoner. His prisoner number is 135-7219. He's in jail right now, Barry Jo Stull, a man who was obviously engaged in a mental health crisis before.
 And now the county has been paying correctional costs for him because this city cannot live up to its duties under the United States of America versus the city of Portland, the consent decree you're in. So this smokescreen of safety, I think, is something that every one of you has seen through, and you will choose to not pursue this appeal. This council has serious problems today.
 that are germane to this case. One week ago, right here, on agenda item number seven, you violated your own printed policy on the agenda and suppressed public input on the City Club's report. It says on your own paperwork that public comment is taken on all items except communications and second readings. So...
 Part of me wants you to appeal this to the Ninth Circuit so that the 40 attorneys I previously mentioned, who collectively are responsible for about $4 million or more in salary, can be crapped on again by the Ninth Circuit telling them that they're not doing it right. So the other thing that's happening that should be is an insult to everybody who voted for you or against you.
 is that instead of fixing the real problem, your crappy public comment and protection exclusion policies, you're rushing off to the Ninth Circuit saying, save us court, save us court. Do some hard work. Earn your money. Fix the city ordinance. Voila! That is the problem here, is that in the entire three years that I've been coming to these Portland City Councils, we keep telling you,
 Your public comment policy is crappy and ineffective compared to what the county has. You need to partner that with fixing this ordinance. You need to let people come every week. If they present a threat to public safety, there's huge books of Oregon statutes that pertain to public safety. Even Mr. West pointed out there are stalking laws. There are laws that can protect you. But do not rush into a flawed, doomed-to-fail appeal. Thank you.
 based on the fact that on the 25th, you brought G4S goons in and police to rough up a mentally ill person, and then when those people are in jail, surprise, surprise, their backpacks remain in the building. This was not a wise form to raise the issue of possibly a smoke detector beeping in a backpack as a possible hoax bomb threat on a day when y'all were...
 cleared the chambers because Mr. Barry Joe Stahl, who's now a political prisoner, was having a mental health episode that, as of today, is still not being properly treated. Get Judge Nan Waller to release him on Friday when they have court. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I'd like to ask for this to be a continuance on this at least until January 29th. I think there definitely needs to be more discussions on this issue.
 Another problem I'm having, again, is on understanding on what your definition is going to be for being disruptive, what your definition is going to be for being considered a public safety issue. I want to have a clear understanding exactly what you mean when you make those statements. What your definition is of a backpack with a fire alarm in inside of it, what that means to you opposed to me, it's just a backpack with a fire alarm. But you...
 Consider that a public safety issue again I want to have a clear understanding on your definitions when you're making those statements another thing that I Believe I stand for and want to want to make a stand for is of course I want to have people have the right to come in and speak come in and do their speeches Come in and try to relay their ideas their concerns and not feel as though They don't have a right to do that in the council chambers. This is the place to do that and
 this is the place to look at people and say i disagree with you this is my idea this is my opinion i'm going to sit here and say it and i don't need to be removed out of the council chambers
 I don't need to feel like I don't have the right to come in here. Don't feel like I have the right not to be in here and be welcomed into here. Because someone else is going talking to you in a soft manner and maybe going to special committee meetings and various things like that. I come in here to do my speeches in front of the council members because I feel I have a right to do that.
 And if you feel you have a right not to allow me to do that, I think that's being challenged right now. And I think really that's what Joe Walsh is standing up for, the right to be able to do that.
 And realistically, he's never been threatening. Realistically, people can claim he's threatening, but, you know, they still need to prove that they haven't proved anything. They are escorted out by security means nothing, means absolutely nothing. And again, I feel that he has had his freedom of speech and what he wants to stay saying here limited.
 And restrict it. And who has that right to do that? If this isn't the place to stand up and stress what we want to say, where is it?
 Where is the place to do that? And it comes under open meetings law. It comes under exactly what we're challenging right now, Federal Judge Simon. And this is going to get very complicated, and there's going to be a lot of issues pertaining to this. This is a very complicated issue. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Mayor, I have a proposal. Okay. I should address myself to the sponsor of the resolution. Dan, I have a proposal.
 I asked Harry Auerbach what's the deadline for filing an appeal, and he said it's January 29th, and that is a ministerial function. It's a notice of appeal. It doesn't require the appeal. That means we have up to two weeks to consider whether the appeal is the right route or whether a change in the code along the lines that the ACLU suggested is.
 is a more tailored approach. And I would just urge Mayor and Dan, we set this over for two weeks. We confer with city attorney, maybe even invite the ACLU to help us, and then decide whether we want to pursue the appeal and or whether there's an amendment to our code which more strategically gets at the concern of the council. And since we have the two weeks and we have Martin Luther King's birthday on Monday, I would urge us to take the full two weeks to get it right. Well, I'm...
 i'm certainly amenable to that i guess my my preference would be to and we can deal with this in two weeks but is as harry auerbach suggested we pursue a parallel track of the appeal and appropriate code changes so i think we'll have some time to consider that and mull that over in those in the two weeks that's what i would like to do as well i won't be here next week i will be here on the 27th so i'm going to continue this are we all here carla on the 27th as far as yes i show everyone in yeah i actually might not be all right
 And I should say that I'm inclined to vote against the appeal because I think that
 i mean the safety issue is a different issue and it sounds like maybe we need to make some targeted uh changes to the code perhaps to focus on that but i think that we should accept judge simon's ruling as to our current ordinance and i don't think this would be a good case to address on which to address the safety issue because mr walsh as he points out is not a safety threat he's not he's not dangerous he's simply boring and the first amendment does protect the board
 So, go ahead, Commissioner Fritz. I concur with that. I was also going to vote against the resolution because it wasn't clear from the resolution that the other issue of safety was also concerned. And I believe we can more expeditiously get to where we need to be. I think the right response for disruptive behavior is to be excluded for the rest of the council session that week. Okay.
 rather than for a prospective 30 days or 60 days. I would also note as a former community activist that one often does better by being calm and measured in one's testimony rather than yelling, and that's completely up to the choice of the activist.
 I also respect the right of other citizens who come to talk about either on the same issue or others to have their turn to talk before the council gives up in exhaustion. So I just want to put that on the record and still absolutely uphold people's right to say and do things however they wish for the three minutes as long as it doesn't involve a safety fire.
 so i want to concur with that comment as someone who was raised in the south by a woman who never raised her voice in my entire life i've always been persuaded by thoughtfulness and never by rudeness though some people in the public arena never seem to notice that in at least my case that the best way to my heart and to my head is thoughtful argument not yelling but
 Yelling is protected, at least within time limits, so we'll certainly always give people the opportunity that feel like they want to yell a chance to do so. But we need to proceed on this set of questions. I want to set this over for two weeks and convene a working group, as Commissioner Fish has suggested, of the city attorney staff, council staff, and I do want to invite the ACLU to participate. Thank you.
 and see what our options are with respect to ordinance changes, then we can return to the question of whether an appeal still makes sense as a parallel track or not. But I don't know whether we need to appeal or not, but I do know we need to change our code. That much I've learned already in this discussion. So I want to set this over until the 27th, convene that working group, and give both council offices, the city attorney staff, and others who are interested in the question of what should be reasonable rules of conduct here,
 and what should be reasonable grounds for excluding people who are a threat. I do believe that, and as Commissioner Saltzman has articulated this, there is a level of threat in a public building that maybe doesn't rise to a criminal act but nevertheless needs to be regulated.
 Again, other public buildings, including Judge Simon's chambers, are protected by things like metal detectors, which we don't currently operate at the Portland building or here. So I think there's a reason for – there's reasonable grounds for regulation of conduct, including threatening conduct like the one that you described. So I think there's work to be done here, and there's a place where most reasonable people agree, and I think we can get there in two weeks. And I look forward to returning to this discussion then.
 Okay, let's move on. He's so scared of cameras. Please, let us move on. We've been here all morning, and we've still got a little work to do. What do we got left? Sorry, where did we leave off? I still show item 36, the time certain, the 1030 time certain. That's been rescheduled. Thank you. Not read yet. Yes. Would you read item 36? Yes.
 amend Bond Avenue roadway reassignments in the South Waterfront District Street Plan criteria and standards document. Okay, and that is rescheduled to January 28th at 3 p.m. And now the remaining parts of the regular agenda. 48th, thank you. Item 48. 48th.
 Authorize application to the Department of Homeland Security through its Federal Emergency Management Agency for a grant in the amount of $331,210 for operations-level structural collapse training. Commissioner Salzman. I'll turn it over to Deputy Chief Knorr, who's been very patient and waiting. Thank you.
 to describe this yeah thank you commissioner mayor and council uh thank you for having me here today uh the fire bureau would like to apply for a grant uh through the federal emergency management agency uh and department homeland security uh for 331 000 uh we have a 10 matching uh uh
 portion, so $33,000 will come out of our training budget for that. This will allow operations-level training for the 10 ladder truck companies in the city. There are four on the west side, six on the east side. The ladder trucks carry a lot of different tools that could be used in a structural collapse incident.
 As you know and have taken great interest in, one of our greatest threats here in Portland is a Cascadia subduction zone earthquake. And with over 1,800 unreinforced masonry buildings in Portland that are going to suffer the brunt of that earthquake, we would like to distribute the training out to the community.
 apparatus that already have the equipment and make them more useful uh in that so that is a approximately a 40-hour training course the funds would be used to support the training as well as as backfill to ensure that people are still in the station staffing the stations at the time that the crews are at the training center receiving the training questions thank you very much anyone else want to speak on this item if not it's an emergency ordinance roll call please
 Prince? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I really hope the application is granted because this training is really important. Thank you. Aye. Hales? That's important work. Thank you. Aye. Okay, 49. Amend subrecipient contract with rebuilding together for $50,000 for home repair services. Mr. Saltzman? Thank you, Mayor. This amends the contract with rebuilding together.
 to provide critical home repairs for low-income homeowners in north and northeast Portland. Last year, the City Council allocated $850,000 in general funds to augment the north and northeast strategy to provide home repairs for low-income households who are not covered or who do not live within the interstate urban renewal area boundaries. This contract will utilize $50,000 of those funds. Okay. Questions? Anyone want to speak? Roll call, please. Yes.
 Fritz Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 50. Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for the mixed use apartment project located at Southeast 9th Avenue and Southeast Belmont Street.
 Mr. Saltzman again. Thank you, Mayor. And I'm sorry, our Housing Bureau Director, Kurt Krieger, had to leave, but he's testifying in Salem today on inclusionary housing proposals. Good. But he really landed this multi-application here, which is to grant the limited tax exemption to Killian Pacific, who is going to provide 20 of their 100 units to be affordable to moderate income households close in on Eastside Portland.
 This project is located on 9th and Southeast Belmont in a neighborhood that is quickly expanding to include more residential uses, since it offers transportation, direct access to jobs and amenities, and top-notch schools. The developer, Killian Pacific, has committed to both engaging a consultant to provide more minority women and emerging small business contracting opportunities,
 working with the Housing Bureau to connect those most in need of housing to available units through relationships with community partners. And the project will also make at least 5% of the units adaptable ready in order to be fully accessible to meet the needs of people with disabilities and seniors. Dori Van Bockel has also been waiting very patiently all day, and she's here to answer questions or provide any questions.
 additional comment, but we do want to thank Killian Pacific for working with the city, and as I said, it was really Kurt Krieger and his relationship that
 through his previous jobs with Killian that helped bring this proposal forward. Dory, did you have anything you wanted to add? No, that's it. Other than to say that, yes, with Killian Pacific participating and applying to the program, they've also been supportive of having other developers who maybe haven't been familiar with the program or thought about it or considered it to actually explore if it might work for them too. Thank you.
 I just want to note, first of all, congratulations to the Bureau for landing this. We still are facing stark statistics, over 22,000 new private sector apartments the last three years and less than 3% affordable. And even though this is a win for what I will call workforce housing,
 We're talking in the studio here about a 470-square-foot studio that will rent for a little over $1,000. So we are not actually addressing the documented area of need in our housing crisis, which is why I hope the legislature gives us the flexibility to address inclusionary housing. And I hope we don't take our eye off of...
 providing housing for people that we have clear evidence they're being priced out of the marketplace, and that is certainly well below 80% MFI. Thank you. Any other questions, Dory? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Mr. Johnson. Okay, come on up.
 Good morning, council members. My name, for the record, is Charles Johnson. And I do want to preface my remarks by saying, when we have three minutes, we don't get to include any of the good stuff that we might think about you. We have limited time, so our comments are usually, if we feel an issue is bad, we have to focus on the negative and hope that you'll fix that. In this case, it's all good, except that not enough. And, of course, that's not the fault of this particular developer. It's great to see a project where it looks like we're looking at, like, 20% of...
 the capacity is going to be adjusted below market rate. And I hope recently Alyssa Kenny-Geyer went out to ERCO, had a big community forum on housing and rental issues. So I hope that citizens can rally with the sentiments of all of you, especially the remarks Commissioner Fish just made, that we need help, transparency,
 Ideally, all preemptions from the state go away, but at least inclusionary zoning and $15 an hour minimum wage. When you look at these policies and when you're talking about the legislative agenda, please also remember to keep in mind the overall portfolio of any landlord, large-scale landlord. So on one project, it looks beautiful, 20% adjusted for below market rate,
 But some of our large property managers, they can do that at one property and still have very, very little. So I hope the state, with your guidance on legislative agenda, will be able to make sure that the best tax credits go to those landlord property management companies that have the largest percentage of their portfolio available to low-income tenants. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Anyone else? Then let's, this is an emergency ordinance. Roll call, please. Ritz? Aye. Fish? Thank you, Dan, for really being a bulldog around getting the multi-program to work. And that includes the amendments you brought to council to respond to some concerns we had from the development community.
 this is one of our most important tools and frankly it's not just an affordability tool it's a fair housing tool to ensure that we put affordable housing in high opportunity areas so thank you for your work on this hi saltzman hi hi hails great outcome thank you hi okay item 51
 Grant revocable permit to Track Town Events LLC for street and lane closures needed for activities related to the 2016 World Indoor Track and Field Championships and USA Indoor Track and Field Championships. Second reading roll call. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And we are recessed until 4 p.m. this afternoon. Thank you.
 no no i'm supposed to see nick right now we got time and one is item 27 that adopts new and amended supporting documents and the other is item 28 which is the comprehensive plan itself which is i think where most people signed up to speak in the item that we will take first regarding those who signed up at the previous hearing last week at sei
 we've reserved testimony for you in the order in which you were signed up before so hopefully most of you were able to make it back if time allows we'll hear testimony from others who signed up today who weren't there last week want to acknowledge that we've received additional written testimony that's going into the council record that each of us will have access to
 Any additional electronic testimony received by the end of today's hearing will also be added, and we'll see if we don't add some time for people to be able to get further documentation in to us. As we did the other night, we're going to limit testimony to two minutes per person, just to make sure, again, we try to hear from everyone. Obviously, it's helpful to be succinct. It's also helpful to be...
 very specific and talk about a specific recommended policy, or if you're talking about a specific site, let us know what that address is so that we've got that clarity in our record and for our follow-up. Obviously, it's also helpful if you don't repeat what other people have said. This is not a numbers game in the sense that we're trying to get all the issues and all the questions right.
 about should we zone this property this way or that way before the council. So it's most important that you be specific and tell us why we should do something rather than that you have 50 people with you on the topic. This is the last of the five initial hearings dedicated to the comprehensive plan. In the next steps of the process, the council's scheduled three work sessions to discuss with each other and with staff.
 the testimony we've heard, and to craft amendments. Those sessions will be here on January 26th, February 2nd, and February 23rd. They're public meetings, and you're certainly welcome to attend and listen or watch them.
 via cable or web, but we won't take testimony of those hearings. They're council work sessions. We ask our staff questions. We debate potential amendments. We don't take action at those work sessions, but we do vet what changes we might make to the draft in front of us. I've asked my colleagues, and I'll hold myself to this, to identify the amendments that they're interested in at the first of those work sessions so that, again, there's plenty of time for council deliberation.
 Although today is the last of the initial hearings on the recommended plan, we will schedule a hearing in April, reopen the evidentiary record at that time to allow the public to comment on the Council's amendments as well as, obviously, on the plan as amended.
 So it's my hope that at that point we can make decisions on the amendments and take a final vote by the end of April. So that's the plan and schedule. Again, welcome and thank you for your patience in that some of you signed up and were there for a long hearing last week, so we definitely look forward to hearing from you this afternoon and we'll take up the list where we left off on Item 28. I guess you need to read that item. And there are Item 51-1 and 51-2. Okay. Okay.
 You want just the second item? No, why don't you read the second one for now, sure. Okay, 51-2, adopt a new comprehensive plan for the city of Portland, Oregon. Okay, and then let's just return to the sign-up sheet, please. Okay, the first person I show is Christy White, and we're doing three. Martha Steven and Jesse Gayle-Molly. Sorry if I mispronounced that. That's number 30, number 51, and 52. Okay.
 Martha Steven, Jesse, Leon, Kamali. Those who are here, come on up and join Ms. White at the table, and we'll let her kick off this afternoon's testimony. They'll be followed by Ken Diebner, from East Denver, Ron Lyle, and Barbara Hamilton. Okay. Christine Yoon first. All right, Christy, you're on first. Thank you. Christy White, representing ESCO. We submitted our written testimony earlier and have submitted another copy here today, so if you have two, you can recycle one.
 We recognize that this phase of the process is just the comprehensive plan map phase as it relates to ESCO, and we are requesting the mixed employment designation for the ESCO property. It's currently split designated. We have a split designation of mixed employment and industrial. The reason for the request is multifold. First,
 We have a corporate headquarters there on the property, and corporate headquarters is allowed on the property because there's currently a manufacturing and production use, the foundry. As I think you've heard, the foundry will be closing down over the next year, which makes the corporate headquarters a nonconforming use, making it an at-risk development for a 100-year-old business, and they're very much interested in staying in Portland, growing their headquarters, potentially growing their research and development and office there,
 and the mixed employment designation allows them to do all of that on all of their property in a comprehensive way. What's important about that is that the mixed employment designation is recognized in the code as an industrial and industrial-related designation and continues to allow all of the industrial uses that ESCO or others might engage in.
 It also does allow some office uses. But what's important about the ESCO proposal is ESCO is in the Giles Lake Industrial Sanctuary Plan District, and we're not asking to get removed from that plan district. So all of the protections that come with that industrial sanctuary plan district
 would stay on the ESCO site. We would advocate for an expansion of Subdistrict B, which limits office uses in that area to a one-to-one, a very low FAR. And any additional FAR, you have to pay into a Transportation Management Fund. So to the extent... 17 seconds. So to the extent any of this has traffic impacts, those will be studied if we get part of the map. And then,
 There's a second step to get the zone change, which would then be another traffic study. And if this property was ever sold, there'd be yet another traffic study because of a land division. So with all of those protections, we ask to be included on the map. Thank you. Thank you. That's helpful. I hadn't realized about the FAR limitation before now. So thank you very much. You're welcome. Okay. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Marty Stive, and I'm here on behalf of Richard Passantini.
 of Belmar Properties. Belmar Properties manages the properties that are controlled by the John Passantini family, of which 30 are impacted by the comp plan map update. Most of those sites are retail businesses.
 We're supporting the city's effort in updating the plan, but we have a concern about the mixed-use dispersed plan designation. Six of our properties have that plan designation proposed for them. On three of those properties, we think it's an inappropriate plan designation. Two of those three sites are adjacent to one another. They're at the corner of Southeast 60th and Southeast Belmont, northeast of that intersection. They're identified on the plan map as change number 254.
 The mixed-use disperse plan designation is the lowest density of the mixed-use plan designations, and it's proposed to be implemented by only two zones, CM1 and CE, neither of which allow the uses and the density that we think to be appropriate for the location.
 On the opposite corner of that site is a five-story medical rehab facility. It's well served by transit and other services, and we'd like to see a higher density zone. But unfortunately, that mixed-use dispersed plan designation only implements two zones, and it's very limited, and we think that the mixed-use dispersed zone should allow the CM2 zoning. If not, another solution would be to rezone it to mixed-use neighborhood. The other site with the same situation is up on southwest Gibbs.
 It's a retail site now, but we believe it's appropriate to have a higher density on it as well. It's zoned commercial storefront. The two zones that are proposed to implement the mixed-use dispersed zoning don't allow either the FAR or the height that is allowed in the existing zoning today. So if the plan is to be implemented, it's going to be a higher density.
 the plan designation is mixed use dispersed, the only zones that implement it would not allow the level of development that is allowed today. And we think that's a problem.
 The solution that we are proposing would be to redesignate both of those sites to mixed-use neighborhood, which would allow us to put a higher-density zone on it, or to allow the CM2 zoning to be implemented in the mixed-use dispersed zone. So these sites are occupied by retail businesses now? The 60th and Belmont site is vacant, two lots that are vacant. Okay.
 And you've given the bill that list? Yes. We've submitted written testimony on all of the properties into your record. Okay. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. I'm Jesse Guy-Mully. I'm the spokesperson for the DeVue and Lee family. They own and lease a property located at 6724 Southeast 82nd Avenue in Portland, Oregon.
 And together with the two vacant lots, which is five and six located to the south of the said reference address. Historically, the parcels to the north and south, the vacant lots, were grandfathered when the zoning changed to residential, since it was currently being used in a commercial zoning classification. The two lots were then zoned residential, since it was vacant and not being used in a commercial zoned capacity.
 So we hereby request that the zoning be changed for the vacant lots 5 and 6 to the same zoning as the two commercial parcels, that is, to the north and south of the vacant lots that are currently in automotive repair and sales. And I have legal descriptions and plot maps if you guys would like to see it. Please just make sure you leave those for us. Those will go into the record, and we'll all get them. All right. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 The next three are Ken Diener, I believe it is, Christine Yoon, and Barbara Hamilton. And they will be followed by Frank Milan, Nancy Chapin, and Andrew Pagott. I'll get those. Yes, please. Thank you. Okay. I can't remember who's first, but go ahead. Go ahead. Okay. So, I'm going to start with the first one.
 All right. Well, thank you for the continuation. My name is Ken Diener. I'm a resident within this plan change area just south of Stark called Plan Change 348 between 16th and 19th. The one thing that's working against us in this continuation is that the mood was set very strongly and very clearly at the hearing last week that
 about the themes of gentrification and the destruction of neighborhoods, what is being lost along the way. Commissioner Novick spoke passionately about his thirst for density, but I'd like to suggest that that thirst is maybe drinking the wrong Kool-Aid, actually. If you look at the 63 lots that have been proposed by the planners recently,
 These 63 lots are not on a commercial corridor. They're not on a transit. For some reason, the planners decided that this was a spot zone that they wanted to try to rezone. Every one of these 63 lots has been developed. We've been living in this neighborhood the least of the people speaking here 15 years. I've been there for 18. We have residents that have been there for 40 years.
 And the only reason for doing a change of zone in a place that's not broken is to encourage tearing down these houses. If you look at the second page that I'm presenting to you, we have 15 lots of the 63 that are single-family historic homes that could be torn down for six units, three lots, two units, two units per lot.
 We have 110 units in this area already. The only reason to bring these further into density is to tear down 110 units, which are already multifamily. Obviously, new units will be much less affordable. I have statistics here from California.
 preservation and green council that says renovation creates only 15 tons versus a new home 50 tons of CO2 each time you tear down something and build new or in other words single family existing only creates is 12% of the CO2 green impacts compared
 compared to new construction. Got it. So what do you think the designation should be? I understand you don't support what's been mapped. We're zoned R5 right now. So you want to leave it at R5? Leave it alone. There is no reason to do 348 or 928. 928 literally is that little blue area, and that literally tears down two very historic homes. If you look at the picture there,
 tear them down and build townhouse courtyards. There's 10 low-income housing units on the north end of that little blue block
 What planner was misguided to think that he's creating anything of benefit by tearing those existing low-income housing down, if not being encouraged in a worse-than-innocent way? But the non-conforming use status of some of that multifamily is not really a problem from your standpoint? They have been non-conforming for the last 50 years, and they've all been rehabbed. Yeah.
 Every one of these buildings has been redone in the last 10 years. They've been condominiumized. They've been rebuilt. They've been reinvested. My house is circled by apartments that have all been reinvested in. They're all grandfathered. It's all density. We have 110 units here that are at risk of being torn down just to build new buildings.
 it makes absolutely no sense there i believe this is in the area that your planner showed me the map it's just a mosaic of different kinds of development and makes a beautiful mix and the kind of thing that was being called for in other areas where there's more blanket development so at the last hearing i mentioned i thought maybe we should consider freezing that zoning in this area and doing a planned district where we could actually make things so that it would be easier to do improvements and harder to make
 tear things down. Yeah, because that was my concern on the flip side. Obviously, every plan, and I was talking about this earlier today, every plan is a plan for change and a plan for preservation, right? And you've got to figure out where you want each one. And in some cases, we're talking about preserving a pattern that doesn't fit the
 the palette of zoning designations, either in the old plan or the new one. This doesn't have a pattern. It's just a mishmash, and it's a beautiful mishmash. Yeah, it's exactly the issue that it doesn't fit the Planning Bureau. When you're looking at it down there on 4th Street from 50 miles above, and you're looking at trying to have some kind of neat thing on paper,
 This is an existing neighborhood that's one of the standpoints, you know, the highlights of Portland. This is why Portland is Portland. We've been here. Thousands of volunteer hours have gone into this neighborhood.
 to make it what it is, and you're trying to move us out, and I'm here to lose money. We're not trying to move anybody out, but the issue is this has got to be something that's administratable for everybody. You've made this point very well and appreciate this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ken. Appreciate it. Welcome. I just want to make sure you have the handouts before I start talking. You bet. They're relevant. All right. Thank you.
 And I will be addressing, I'll be following up Ken's point. Thank you very much. Okay, I think we're set. All right. I'm Christine Yoon, and I'm requesting a council amendment to eliminate proposed changes 348 and 928. Okay.
 I believe that good design, historic preservation, and minimizing CO2 emissions are not mutually exclusive. I am addressing historic preservation issues in Buckman as part of the Portland Coalition for Historic Resources and as a resident.
 I was part of a volunteer team that tried to nominate a national registered district in Buckman. You can see the district's boundary in red on page one of the handout. And there are other maps of the district on page two that show contributing properties. Contributing structures are the foundation of a historic district and have historic worth.
 This nomination was enthusiastically supported by the State Advisory Committee on Historic Preservation, SHPO, and the National Park Service. And the neighbors voted against the nomination because they feared regulation and gentrification, oddly enough. We asked for a determination of eligibility from the Park Service, which means that the application can be resubmitted in the future as long as there are no drastic changes to the district and no opposition from residents."
 49 out of the 63 properties in this area proposed to be upzoned are contributing. Six could become contributing with minor renovations, and eight are non-contributing. Of the eight that are non-contributing, five are larger apartment buildings with 11 or more units. So by incorporation,
 Encouraging this upzoning and the demolition, you're actually destroying density. You're losing affordable housing, and you're also losing this wonderful mix of historic structures that span a period from 1880s to about 1939 to have a monoculture of our 2.5 single-family houses, $700,000, 3,000 square feet plus.
 So the new zoning will encourage demolitions and is at odds with a determination of eligibility and a potential viable historic district, and with Goal 5 of the Oregon Statewide Planning Goals, which asks to conserve historic areas. So that's why I'm asking for this council amendment. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Do you have my handout? Good afternoon. I think we might have your handout. You have it? Wendy, yes. Yes.
 A little map. Wonderful. My name is Barb Hamilton. I live at 1405 Northeast 53rd Avenue. And I am here to oppose the rezoning of a single R5 lot at the corner of Northeast 53rd and Halsey Street to the too broad CM1 or commercial multi-use 1 designation. This is the map that I've provided you. Proposed change 347. Mm-hmm.
 I've provided you this snip of the recommended comprehensive map with this single R5 lot located, the pink island surrounded by blocks and blocks of residential, mostly small-scale single-family homes.
 Also included is the Rose City Park Neighborhood Association's previously submitted testimony on our behalf. They also ask that this CM1 rezoning be denied. This stack of signed opposition statements, one of which is attached, which is representative of just the couple hours of my time that I had to devote to this statement,
 Over 40 of my neighbors, a 100% hit rate. Once this was explained to them, they all agreed that this is, CM1 scale is incongruous to our neighborhood.
 Northeast 53rd is already a very busy street. It's a jogged street at Halsey. There's a light and a cafe on this residential site. It's heavily trans, it's a bike pathway. There's a lot of residents and pedestrians already.
 The CM1 would typically, generally, on average, allow a 35-foot or taller building with no parking required. So very few of these people are against change or think that Halsey Street won't eventually evolve. Our concerns are that this broad designation applied to this one single R5 lot at this point in time will not fit with the small scale of our neighborhood and would –
 pressure in already burdened parking and unsafe traffic situation. Some years in the future, most likely when the next comprehensive plan is discussed, this development would make more sense, as you can see by the map, when commercial development has filled in from Northeast 43rd heading east and from Northeast 60th heading west.
 So my neighbors and I, as well as the Rose City Park Neighborhood Association, are asking you to please remove this small pink square from the comprehensive plan and its C1M rezoning designation due to the improper scale and lack of parking concerns and, honestly, the lack of a smaller scale or more limited option within the multi-use designation. I thank you. Thank you. Yeah, no, the planning staff mentioned this site to me earlier today when we were getting ready for the hearing.
 dumb question that I failed to ask them, which is how did the cafe get developed on this site in the first place? Was it
 It's been a longtime historical retail site. It's an R5 zone, but it's been a retail site for years. It used to, way back in the 40s, and I was told it was a barbershop. It was a little market. You know, it's been a multitude. Predated the zoning ordinance, or at least the modern version of it. Well, I think there may have been a house with the barbershop in it, you know, at a time, at some point. Yeah, no, we've got a bunch of those around the city, yeah.
 And I think in plan view, you know, or you look at a list and it's already a cafe, it might make sense. But if you go to that corner and you see what other homes and how small the scale of everything is right there, it makes no sense to wind up with a 35- or 40-foot facade on that site. Okay. Thank you very much. You bet. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's take the next three, please. 61, Frank Milan. 62, Nancy Chapin. And we'll do 66, Andrew Paget. And they will be followed by 64, Kristen Green. 68, Dana Denny. And 69, Margaret Davis. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hello. Please. Mayor and Council, my name is Frank Milan. I live in northwest Portland.
 First, I want to thank Councillor Fritz for voting against the West End Quadrant Plan and asking that it be reconsidered this year. In my opinion, the most critical issue in Portland is that development is out of control. This is what is creating a lack of affordable housing and adding to homelessness.
 While development can be good for the city and create employment, uncontrolled development is not. From my viewpoint, the Portland Comprehensive Plan appears to be rigged in favor of developers. The permitting process of the Bureau of Development Services appears to be rigged as well.
 Out-of-scale monstrosity projects are being permitted by the BDS that are seriously impacting our city. Just about any building is being torn down if a developer requests it. This is being promoted as inevitable to accommodate a rush of people moving here. However, in my opinion, this is not inevitable. This is development out of control.
 Portland has been a city with a history of public policy that has protected our future for the common good and for generations to come. In my opinion, the Portland Comprehensive Plan, as it sits now, is subverting this process in favor of serving development's special interests. Perhaps, Mayor Hales, you can tell us how the Comprehensive Plan and the BDS have been allegedly rigged in favor of developers since this has all happened, since you took office in 2013. But it is also my understanding that the Attorney General's Office has been approached with this question.
 Under what circumstances will the Attorney General's Office open an investigation into the relationship between Portland Mayor Charlie Hales and the developers who are active in this city? The media may be very interested in the response to this question.
 Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Well, good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Nancy Chapin. You all know about the five-story building that is being proposed at 3423 Southeast Hawthorne between two one-story retail buildings. It's, as you can see, definitely a sore thumb, and it is being asked to be approved.
 I believe it's not only your right, according to the criteria of context, but your responsibility as guardians of Portland's livability and history to not allow that development to go through. As an alternative, rather than approving a sore thumb in the middle of an historic district, I suggest that the Gateway Town Center be developed as it was intended to be,
 I've driven on 122nd. I've driven in that area. There's all kinds of property that could be developed now. There's some money coming through for affordable housing. If you have to do an incentive to get some builders out there in that far reach of Portland, do it. If we don't get affordable housing, we're going to end up with a –
 an exodus from Portland that will mean we don't need those 300,000 rent units for people to live in because it's becoming unlivable, as you know, if you attended the concern about housing and lack of it.
 Think that apartments can be built and occupied within as few as four months on Southeast 50th, 52nd, Division, Powell. And now that those funds are available, please use them to develop affordable housing in an area that is waiting for it and ready for it, the Gateway District. And please leave our historic districts unhoused.
 so that they maintain their beauty and their history. Five stories in the midst of two one-story retail buildings with no retail and no parking is an abomination. So that's 3423, did you say? Yeah. So Nancy, you've been around land use for a while, and you know how it works, which is the city council doesn't make site-specific programs
 permitting decisions. I know. We adopt a zoning ordinance, and then people have entitled rights, which they can build to and get a permit for. And it's not a political decision. It's a ministerial decision. So what's the zoning on this site now? Tell me about it.
 Storefront commercial? Yes. And no retail is planned, no parking is planned. So it's storefront commercial, and that allows either multifamily or commercial, right, under the current code? The current code. But five stories, that's allowed by right, or is that by bonus? It appears to be some bonus in the fact that it's on a little hill, so somehow they figured out that that gives them another right to have another story on it. And you think this should be zoned what?
 Well, I think it should be zoned so that it matches the area at least no more than three stories, which you have across the street. It would be the new mixed-use one designation, right? Right. And the other thing is if you were to do that two-year moratorium until the plan is approved, which I understand is a way you can do a moratorium –
 I think that that would be a really wise decision right now until this plan is done. It's 10 years later than it was supposed to be. I worked on the one that was approved in the 80s, and it was supposed to be done 10 years ago, and we wouldn't be going through this if it had been done in a timely manner. So, just a more important... Okay, thank you. We're going to try to speed it up. Thank you. Go ahead. Mr. Mayor, councillors, good afternoon. Thanks for the opportunity to testify. My name is Andrew Padgett. I represent PepsiCo.
 and our adjoining properties at 2627 Northeast Sandy Boulevard and 2505 Northeast Pacific Street, our home for over 60 years and home to close to 300 Pepsi employees, local residents. While we enthusiastically support the comp plan,
 We recognize that the mixed-use urban center that's proposed for this area will impinge on our operations. It's our understanding that the general employment zones, EG1 and EG2, will allow commercial truck parking with some limitations, but that would require a change.
 in designation from mixed-use urban center to mixed employment in order to allow those EG1 or EG2 zones to be implemented. PepsiCo is therefore formally requesting that the City Council consider implementing such a change. Thank you. So you plan to keep operating for the foreseeable future? Yes, sir. The redevelopment is not in your plans? No, sir. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, next three. Kristen Green, Dana Denny, and Margaret Davis. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. My name is Kirsten Green. By training in trade, I'm a comprehensive planner and managing principal at Kogan Owens Green here in Portland. I'm a manager of the Kogan Owens Green
 Our business is advancing best practices and community planning. We also convene a cross-generational, multicultural community of practice dedicated to diversifying the thought and practitioners of community planning. Building on our 40 years of practice at Koganoans, this year we've been studying just the issue before you, how to avoid the mistakes of past planning and investment strategies as we plan for a better future.
 A proud affiliate member of the Anti-Displacement Coalition, our community urges you to adopt the planning and sustainability recommended anti-displacement measures in their entirety, and to do so with both a historical justice and an equity lens citywide and without exception. Thank you.
 We believe we owe it to current and future generations to create inclusive communities that create economic diversity and opportunity while advancing our shared obligation to affirmatively further fair housing, while complying with local, regional, and state goals for a range of housing choice in opportunity areas throughout our great city. By adopting the anti-displacement policies, you will usher in a new era where we're utilizing best practices, including the equity lens tool Bureau staff have been advancing to
 What we need now with your leadership is supporting, indeed firmly requiring, all communities to be inclusive, to take up their share of needed housing, and to overcome nimbyism and fear of change. One thing good cities do well, as you know, is evolve, and we can evolve beautifully as well as equitably. You have the best planners in the state to support you in this regard.
 By adopting these recommendations and implementing them in partnership with historic and impacted communities, you'll achieve what you seek to achieve a racially equitable and just city. Please say yes to adopt the recommendations in their entirety for past, current, and future generations. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hi. I'm Dana Denny. I think this is my worth time in front of you.
 I have some information I'm providing you with you today to document how well I'm here to address tiny homes Fresno, California just recently Allowed tiny homes into their city and this is how they did it So I thought I would share that information with you. You can look at it so I'm I
 Reviewed the housing section of the proposed comprehensive plan and have my findings here. There's goal 5A, housing diversity. Goal 5D, affordable housing. And 5E, high performance housing. Our little homes are very efficient and have a very minimal carbon footprint.
 In the policies, 5.3, potential. We can serve low- and middle-income needs, 5.4. Types. Our houses are new and innovative and very small.
 Housing access, 5.12, provides stability. 5.15, curtails involuntary displacement. 5.16, land banking, providing land for our little affordable units to be on. And my favorite, 5.18, aging in place with dignity.
 In the housing location section, 5.20, please provide access to opportunities, housing affordability, 5.29, housing cost burden, 5.3, housing prosperity, various types, 5.35, impact of regulations on affordability, 5.42, variety of home ownership opportunities, 5.44, regional balance. Yes.
 And health and safety, 5.49. High-performance houses. Our houses are very energy efficient, and they have great quality. So as you can see, our tiny homes do fit in the comprehensive plan. They are free to the city of Portland at no cost.
 So I encourage you to please include these small homes in this proposed comprehensive plan and let me age with dignity in my little house. Thank you. You may have heard the council earlier today approve the appointment of Eli Spivak to the Planning Commission. He knows a little bit about that. I'll start working with him as well. Thank you very much. Mm-hmm.
 Good afternoon. Great news about Eli. I'm Margaret Davis. I'm here for Beaumont-Wilshire Neighborhood Association. My comment is on public comment. Along with many people here, I've already made specific comment on the map app and in other forms, but I worry that those comments are being erased instead of informing the decisions as they're intended and I believe as required by the comp plan. Here's why. I had the recent discussion draft issued by the Mixed Use Zones Project by the Bureau of Planning.
 Beaumont Wilshire neighborhood has had a representative closely following this project. Jack Book Walter has a background in architecture and is a retired city planner with the Sonoma, California. Lives in Beaumont now and we are lucky to have him as our land use chair. In other words, he really knows his land use. Under his direction, we worked hard as a board to comment on the project, which contemplates many of the same issues under discussion today. Thank you.
 We submitted a letter detailing our concerns and ideas for Northeast Fremont Street. I am providing that letter to you. The planners for that project gathered the public comment into one document, which I have here and which I have also provided to you in pertinent part. We see that our comment has been significantly altered. Some examples include, Our stated strong opposition to CM2 zoning for Northeast Fremont is gone.
 Our description of the meeting with TriMet where we were told that frequent service would never be in the offing for Fremont is gone. Our gotcha where we found the planners had changed the wording of CM2 criteria from well-served by frequent transit to just well-served by transit is gone.
 The unsuitability of the infrastructure on Fremont to support high-density development, such as narrowness of the street and other factors, is gone. In fact, every criticism in our letter is gone, and the only things left are the praise that we had for the planners. We are stunned that a thoughtful, well-researched contribution to city planning would be so changed and demand transparency in the public comment process. All the comments that people have made on the map app and elsewhere, will the decision-makers see them? No.
 Or are they already deleted by staff who don't want others to learn what Portlanders on the ground believe and know? If this city wants to maintain and build public trust, this is not the way to do it. We have time and again worked within the city's prescribed processes to make our voices heard. But when our efforts are deleted, it makes us wonder what forces are at work.
 This is evidence that you and other decision makers are not receiving the truth from the voices at the ground level before approving any plans. We urge an audit of the public comment received so far. We also urge you to bring integrity and value to the public comment process. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. The next three are 70, 72, and 73, John Washington, Alam Jibrahiwat, and Michael Robinson.
 And they'll be followed by 74, 75, and 78, Debra O'Neill, Soren Impey, and Tamara DeRitter. I'm sorry, 76, Joseph Wesley, I believe. Good afternoon. I think Mr. Washington's first. No, I'm going to pass to Mr. Gabriela. Okay. Welcome. Hello, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. I'm here to testify on North Fremont. We are asking to...
 change the zoning from residential to a mixed use. I have been in the neighborhood for the last 30 years. Fremont and what? North Fremont, from Mississippi to Vancouver Avenue. Okay. I have been in this neighborhood for the last 30 years and I have seen a lot of changes going through, which at the time that we have seen in a great time that there is quite a lot of development coming.
 And in the last 30 years or so, we have seen quite a lot of gentrification that has been done, and still there is quite a lot of disparity of housing and businesses. As there is quite a lot of improvement in the streets around us, Mississippi and commercial, I think there is a lot of improvement that can be done on Fremont, on North Fremont from Mississippi and Vancouver areas.
 I am asking you to change this zone from residential into a mixed zone. It is about 10 blocks, and it has pretty much in each block two houses, which is about 1,000 square feet. Changing this street into mixed use, it would bring a lot of the community that has been moved out to come back home. It could be built large buildings in the street.
 And the reason for that is this street is so close to the downtown or to anywhere, and practically, actually, it should be a commercial or mixed-use street. And this doesn't really destroy any historic impact into this street or to this housing because the houses don't have any historic significance but human history.
 And bringing back this community that has been moved away too far away, like last week, people have been talking, I think this would be a good solution to change that street into a mixed zone and giving the opportunity that has been there for many years that have left, you know, people that have left, are being left there, that are the only remaining unjustified people could benefit out of it by changing this zone. Yes, of course, you know, there is a lot of
 real estate issues that is going on. But, you know, this will be a good solution. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon, Commissioners. We appreciate you guys allowing us to come and sit and testify before us. I'm here on behalf of the North Northeast Business Association.
 And one of the things that is primary that I was sent down here in March notice to do is to make sure that I continue to inform you that the issue of the plan of economic development just doesn't talk about –
 And the fact in the Northeast is that the retail space for the demographic that has been pushed out is basically dwindling. And one of the things that the Northeast Business Association is in support of is the request for the Fremont change, and that is for mixed use. And also trying to maintain some affordable retail space in the district for some of those businesses to return that.
 was forced out of the environment. We're also wanting to let you know that the issue around neighborhood associations and business associations and the conversation around the fair involvement of both of those organizations in land use matters.
 We would like to see more business associations involved in land use matters as the plan progresses on, and that's one of the things that we have a real serious concern about. So thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hills, members of council. My name is Mike Robinson. I'm here on behalf of Providence Health and Services Oregon. I submitted a letter to you dated January 7th of this year, so I'll limit my testimony to just a few things.
 First, I want to offer a compliment to your professional staff and to the public. This comprehensive plan, in my opinion, continues your tradition of having the best written and best edited planning documents in the state. It's easy to understand. We may not all agree with everything that's in it, but it's professionally drafted, and it's a good document that's easy to use, so I think it will serve the public well. There are two substantive things I'd like to tell you today. In our letter, Providence has suggested two additional plan policies in the campus institutional plan policy section.
 The first is new policy 6.61. That's a policy that would require the implementing land use regulations to provide for the continuation and extension of existing conditional use master plan for institutions. We appreciate the city recognizing the importance of institutions to the region's economy, and we appreciate the primary or the allowed use that the base zone would provide. But the reality is we have a real investment in our conditional use master plan. We've worked hard with our neighbors to see that it works and that it's neighborhood-friendly
 The proposed land use regulations, unfortunately, terminate existing and approved CUNPs early and don't provide for extension. We think it's important that there be a plan policy recognizing the investment that the neighbors and the institutions have made in the CUNPs early.
 Secondly is new plan policy 6.62. Part of our plan, CUNP, has a very effective transportation demand management plan. Providence, for instance, has resulted in a reduction of single occupancy vehicle travel each year since its implementation. We'd like this plan policy to be considered by the council so that the land use regulations and administrative rules to be adopted would provide for the continuation of successful and effective TDMs. And we thank you for your time today.
 Help me out with this, just to understand how this would work. I need to go back and look at the campus institutional portion of the plan and what the policies would be. But the purpose of that was to enshrine and legalize the use of
 the uses like campus institutional uses that are there under these conditional use master plans. So in theory, I get it that we would adopt this in plan and in code, and you wouldn't need a conditional use master plan anymore. So what's the substantive difference of continuing and extending existing master plans versus having it
 down in chapter and verse in the code. I just need to understand how that would work in practice differently. Well, Mayor Providence has two principal concerns, and of course this relates to Portland Providence Medical Center. We're fine with the concept of the CI2 zoning district that, as you say, enshrines the use. The issue is the CUMP terminates, and under administrative rules we haven't seen yet that are going to be promulgated by PBOT, we're going to have to do a new TDM. We don't know what's required in that. We don't know how extempid it's going to be.
 extensive it's going to be so we want to keep the cump in place we have a good tdm that works now it's working for the public it's working for us and we'd like to keep it in place through its vested period which i think in this case is 2023 and be able to extend it we appreciate we're not saying don't adopt the plan map designation don't adopt
 the zones, but we're happy with how we've been able to work with the CUNP, with the neighbors, and implement a successful TDM plan. Without the ability to keep that in place, we're going to be forced at some point to do a different TDM. We'd be less concerned if we knew what that was going to be, but those rules haven't been adopted. By the time they get adopted, CUNP is going to be on its way out, and we're concerned about that.
 And I will tell you, I think your staff has been responsive to us on this. They've convened a meeting tomorrow with PBOT. We're going to go to that and listen, and we may have some additional comments. But that may or is, I'm not trying to make a simple issue complex, but it's intertwined with the TDM recs. Yeah, no, that helps. Thank you. You're welcome. That's a good explanation.
 Other questions? Yeah, I know that neighbors have different but similar concerns the other way, particularly where there's going to be a new institutional residential zoning, and yet there isn't a master plan. And so in that instance –
 what guides the rules. So I think we've heard a lot about not adopting the mixed-use zones until we know what the implementing rules are and what's going to be allowed. I hear a similar concern from many different sides on the institutional zoning. That's correct. And may I offer one other quick thing? Please. We testify, and again, the PSC is a very interesting organization to testify in front of. They actually listen and engage you in discussion, which I think is what we all try and achieve.
 No one at that hearing on the 14th said they wanted the CUNPs to go away. All of the institutions that testified expressed support for them. And I think people would tell you they were tough to get done, but one of the values that I think Providence and I see, and I don't speak for myself, I speak for my client, it's actually forced us to engage our neighbors and do a better job of working with them. And I think...
 There were a lot of early skirmishes, but I'm comfortable in saying that the relationship is much better. And if we hadn't had the instrument of the CUNP to help us do that, I'm not sure we would have gotten there. Yeah. No, I've been through that process a time or two. It's fun, isn't it? And I've seen that effect. Yeah, you're right. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Okay.
 Next three are 74, 75, and 76, Deborah O'Neill, Soren Impey, and Joseph Weston. And they'll be followed by 78, Tamara DeRitter, 81, Vivian Satterfield-Opel, and 83, Rose Colaski. Tamara, you're in the next wave, so good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and members of the Portland City Council. Good afternoon.
 My name is Deborah O'Neill and I am speaking today on behalf of the Architectural Heritage Center and the Bosco Milligan Foundation. Other individuals have and will testify on behalf of the Architectural Heritage Center and the Foundation.
 The purpose of my testimony will be to highlight elements of the proposed comprehensive plan that are strongly supported by the Center and the Bosco Milligan Foundation. First, the Architectural Heritage Center and the Foundation support the proposed comprehensive plan's recommendation to downzone the Elliott Conservation District.
 This was specifically requested by the neighborhood, which looked to match zoning with conservation district guidelines. Second, we also support the elimination of the no net loss housing policy, which has limited flexibility when neighborhood and or area plans are updated.
 Given that existing zoning already supports substantially more residential capacity than is required by 2035, we believe that there should be flexibility in protecting our historic districts and in as yet undesignated historic areas.
 Finally, the Architectural Heritage Center and the Foundation also support the efforts of the Infill Design Task Force and emphasize the importance of its work, especially as it relates to lot confirmation issues.
 I thank you for your time and for this opportunity. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Soren Impey, and I have rented in the Buckman neighborhood for 16 years. In fact, 80% of my neighbors rent here
 Nevertheless, Buckman and much of Portland is experiencing a housing crisis with record low vacancy rates and an epidemic of displacement of long-term residents. As a renter threatened by displacement myself, I strongly support upzoning of plots adjacent to centers and quarters in the Buckman area,
 and the inner southeast as a whole. I also ask that you support changes that allow for greater low-rise density in exclusionary residential zoned areas. As the recent stabilization of Rents in Central Seattle illustrates, inclusionary upzoning is critical for increasing housing equity in this city.
 And I want to talk about a recent comprehensive study of 95 large metropolitan areas, which found that density restrictions increase economic segregation by promoting concentration of affluence. In fact, the authors conclude that density restrictions are a culprit in the social fragmentation of metropolitan areas and should be relaxed wherever possible. I urge the council to give more weight to housing equity and less weight to...
 to what I believe are often euphemisms for economic self-interest, such as charm, historic, and character. I am also, and now I'm going to change hats, I'm also here as a board member of Bike Lab PDX and a founder of Livable Streets Action.
 to active transport advocacy organizations. And I'd like to thank the commissioners and mayor for approving the Vision Zero plan, the neighborhood greenway report, and recently approving and starting to implement bike share. Nevertheless, Portland is falling well behind its bike plan goal of 25% mode share by 2030.
 Multiple projects in the Comprehensive Plan that we believe are essential to reaching these mode-share goals have been pushed back. We urge you to push forward
 projects such as the Inner Sandy Boulevard, Hollywood Town Center, Belmont Morrison Bikeway, Inner Holgate Bikeway into the first decade. And we also urge you to prioritize the Inner Burnside Ped Bike improvements and the Inner Barber Quarter improvements. And many of these points have been made in a letter that I believe has been sent to the council and the mayor. Thanks. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Joseph Weston, and we do all consider them on our property in Portland, but I'm going to limit my comments to three areas that I'm very concerned about. The first area is up at Sylvan. If you look at the packet that I gave you, there's a map here. When we developed these properties back in the 60s, they were referred to as woody walk-ups, and a woody walk-up is one that does not have an elevator and you have to walk up the stairs.
 The site is an ideal site for a Class A office complex. It's close to the city. It's right on light rail. It's an area that should be zoned, in my estimation, EG2. And I ask you to give that some consideration. We get calls all the time on that property. I will not redevelop. It will be done after I'm long gone. But it should be redeveloped to its highest and best use. And its highest and best use would be a zone of EG2.
 The second area is the close-in central east side. We've acquired over the years the real estate owned by Jansen Knitting Mills, Nationwide Insurance, Portland Bottling, the Salvation Army, what they own on the north side of Sandy, the remainder of Lyman Slack Motors, and Oregon Plaza Building.
 We have 175,000 square feet of land there. It was my intent when I assembled that to perhaps do another Hoyt Street property development known as the Pearl, but at my age and I don't have the patience, I have to admit that now to you, that I probably will not be developing that. But it should be developed to its highest and best use.
 We're working with Washington Capital. They own some property in there, and we ask that that be brought into the city under central city. It should be central city zoning. It's the largest piece of property under private ownership in the central city. It's close in, right in the Lloyd Center area. Please give it some consideration. And the third property is a property at the east end of the Broadway Bridge.
 You had a city commissioner, Eric, he approached me. He said, we would like to develop the east end of the Broadway Bridge. That's when they were doing one of many, many, many, many, many, many studies of the Memorial Coliseum.
 So I said, well, you go ahead and rezone it, and we'll build something. There's a drawing in there, a rendering of a building we're going to build. I get a call from Eric. All of a sudden, he says, well, Sam Adams changed his mind. They want to do the Burnside Bridge at the east end of the Burnside Bridge. They're going to put in a Burnside-Couch couplet. So don't waste any more time on your project there, because we're not interested anymore. But that's now in Central City. I want to leave it in Central City. So your cooperation and motivation
 amending it to get these zones on these three undeveloped or not developed to its highest and best use would be appreciative. We own property in almost all these areas other people have talked about. I'm not worrying about it. It's fully developed. Maybe it'll be a nonconforming use, but we'll be grandfathered in. And when I'm gone, somebody else can order it. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you very much. We hope you're not gone anytime soon. We appreciate you. Thank you very much. Well, I'm going to go pick up my lottery. Thank you.
 Thank you, Joe. The next three are 78, Tamara DeRitter, 81, Vivian Satterfield-Opel, and 83, Rose Kowalski. And they'll be followed by 85 representatives from MISO, 86, Nikki Johnston, and 88, Wendy Chung. Thank you.
 Okay. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Tamara DeRitter. I'm the chairman for Rose City Park Neighborhood Association, which I am representing today. There are three concerns. First, passenger vehicles may change to electric over the next 20 years, but they will not go away. And right now, the comprehensive plan predicts that –
 30% of all households in the city will reduce to one or no vehicles at all. So I don't think that's real. Also, number two, the public parking needs to be planned for and implemented in centers and civic corridors, or you will lose your small businesses. Thank you.
 This issue is not addressed at all. Number three, request the support of provisional map amendment for Euclid Heights subdivision and for Northeast 60th Avenue station area. So on behalf of our, number one, on behalf of our Neighborhood Association and Central Northeast neighbors, please remove or level the transportation use hierarchy contained in Section 9.6.
 Right now, 9.6 identifies bicycles as second only to pedestrians and handicapped uses for all the uses on public roads. Bicycles are prioritized over transit, over freight, over carpools, over electric cars, and last but not least, passenger vehicles. This policy is cast the same for all the roads in Portland, not just downtown. Instead, create a best practices transportation as they do with science.
 And slide one, this is a new car, and it's an electric car, and they're making these or looking to make these for the average citizen. So this is Frohmeier's son actually invented this. So already the language that you have in this plan is antiquated. Number two.
 Go ahead quickly because I have a question for you. Okay, number two, public off-street parking needs to be planned and implemented for the centers and the civic corridors. I represent both our neighborhood and central northeast neighbors on this as well.
 I represent the neighborhood, both of these groups, in the Centers and Quarters Parking Task Force. None of the staff in that committee or in the draft of the comprehensive plan have addressed a critical issue that mixed-use commercial will contain high-density residential units that require 72 parking spaces for each 100 units. Got it. And what's your third one? And the third one is the provisional map amendment that –
 We have. So do you have a new proposed map for us for that area? Yes, I do. Okay, good. You don't have to put it up on the screen as long as you've got it in the record. I know you're working. I have it in the record. It's in the handout that you've got in front of you. Okay, I bet it is. As long as we've got that in the record, because I know you were working on this with the staff. Right. So I'm very interested to see what you came up with. Basically creating a red carpet of concrete.
 commercial along 60th from Halsey down to the Mack Station. Okay, good. Thank you. And that has the support of the neighborhood? It does. Okay. And that's one of the things we're good for is neighborhood associations. Oh, here it is. I've got it. Hold this together. Yeah. Thank you very much for working more on that because I know that that was one I was particularly interested in seeing some additional thought, and you have done it. So thank you. Yeah. Public involvement. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello, good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Vivian Satterfield representing Opal Environmental Justice Oregon, and this council is familiar with my organization and the scope of our work. And so just a slight reminder that, you know, leadership and accountability for reducing risks and enhancing meaningful public engagement are needed at every level of government to develop solutions to environmental justice problems.
 Environmental and land use planning agencies at every level must integrate achieving environmental justice into their missions and make implementation a part of their core program activities. It's also important to remember that...
 Government at every level has not always been proactive in addressing environmental justice concerns, and citizen protest has been the catalyst that has prompted government action. And, you know, in short, land use, access, housing, and transportation are all environmental justice issues and are reasons why OPAL is a member of the Anti-Displacement PDX Coalition. There are policies in the current comp plan which do speak to environmental justice concerns, 2.4, 2.4a, and 2.4b.
 I do want to highlight, though, one particular site, 1639 SE Holgate. And my understanding is there's a current proposal of a change from designation from AG1 to CM2. My understanding, even though I'm not a planner, is that this is considered an up zone and that up designations should deliver some public community benefits.
 Public agencies in particular have a responsibility to mitigate potential displacement. And, for example, with the yellow line, I regret that Commissioner Fish is not here. I understand that he's presumably brought up publicly that we should be getting more from the orange line since it's a huge public.
 investment. So this TriMet site, which is over there, again, 1639 southeast Holgate, is near the Orange Line. And coincidentally, it's actually in a neighborhood that I was displaced from in 2011 as a renter due to increased rental rates that I really attribute to the Orange Line
 And so, you know, as I'm working with community members on Powell Division, this is something that we're looking and thinking about critically in terms of land banking and what sort of community benefits we can be looking at as we're planning for large-scale public investments on transit. This is the site that's actually owned by TriMet, right? That's correct. Yeah, and my understanding is that it's been given an up-zoning, which essentially allows TriMet to do more with that land.
 well yeah and i guess the issue there in that carter and it's it's a little bit it's a it is a question in my mind about whether we try to preserve that area primarily for employment or whether we do allow housing
 to sort of come down the hill from Milwaukee Avenue closer to 17th. And, you know, there's a couple of schools of thought on that, one of which is we've got to preserve all the employment land that we possibly can, and the other is we need more housing. Absolutely need more housing. But you say it would be better to be left at EG1.
 than to change it to CM2? I don't know if I have a particular line of thought about how the designation should be. It's just an overall, you know, when we're looking at sites like that and when we're looking at sites in which another agency such as TriMet, you know, is receiving some sort of additional benefit and upzoning, you know, to really look critically at those specific sites at the intersection of housing and, you know, transportation especially. Okay. Yeah. It's a public benefit question. Absolutely. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Rose Kowalski. I live at 627 Northwest 20th Avenue, and I'm speaking on behalf of the Bosco Milligan Foundation's Architectural Heritage Center. We appreciate the opportunity to bring our concerns to you this afternoon.
 We support the proposed downzoning in the Elliott neighborhood as a positive and important step since such detailed review greatly increases the consistency of both zoning and development guidelines. We encourage you to continue this work in other conservation and historic districts. Specifically, we request additional downzoning of high-density areas in three existing historic districts, the Alphabet District, Irvington, and Kings Hill.
 We feel the very high FAR allowances in the RH zones do not support the heritage conservation goals of these adopted historic districts, and we request that Council include a refinement plan work element as part of the implementation phase of the comprehensive plan. Sadly, we need to note that Portland's historic resource inventory was completed more than 32 years ago and has never been updated.
 Portland's planning process is therefore unprepared to assess the historic importance of its very large stock of post-war and mid-century modern historic properties. By very large stock, I mean the hundreds of buildings constructed between 1934 and 1966, which became eligible after the completion of the 1984 inventory.
 We encourage council to arrange for an update of this important resource. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. The next three are 85, Miso representative, 86, Nick Johnston, and 88, Wendy Chung. And they will be followed by 79, Mary Ann Schwab, 91, Karen Carlson, and 92, Rick Michelson.
 Who would like to share? Okay, just pull up another chair if you can find a loose one there, and we'll let these folks start while you get organized. Please go ahead. Okay. I'm Nikki Johnston with the Irvington Community Association. Irvington is outlined by the central lines of Northeast Broadway to Fremont and Northeast 7th to 27th.
 City plan staters admit that there is enough density in the present zoning for the next 50 years. So why the need to upzone areas in the Irvington Historic District? Also, because of the overzoning, it is entirely consistent with the comp plan to reduce the zoning in certain limited areas in the Irvington Historic District.
 the rh zoning in the irvington historic district with its floor area ratio of 4.0 is incompatible with the fabric of the district and they and that rh zoning were currently found in everything should be restricted to a floor area ratio of 2.0 or if north of schuyler the rh zoning should be reduced to r1
 The maximum height of 75 feet along Broadway in the north side between 7th and 16th is not justified either by market needs nor by consistency with the compatibility with the historic development pattern and should be adjusted downward in that stretch to match the 45-foot height currently established along the north side of Broadway between 16th and 27th.
 The CX zoning along the north side of Broadway between 7th and 16th is also not compatible with an historic district and should be changed to CM2, but without the benefit of bonuses. The bonuses are too much for an historic district. The changes affecting the historic district on the comp plan map are 24th and Fremont commercial node changed from CM2 to CM1. This is acceptable.
 7th and not, commercial no change from CN1 to CM1. This is acceptable. Half block east of 7th between Schuyler and Tillamook and the full block between 7th and 8th, Schuyler to Hancock, change from EX to CM2. This is not acceptable, and the CM3 should be changed to CM1. Half block north of Broadway between 16th and 27th,
 CS to CM2. This is acceptable if bonuses are not allowed. I'm going to stop you not because I want to stop you, but because I want to make sure we've got this in writing because it's so detailed. One, I'm not going to be able to remember it all. That's okay. As long as we've got copies of it because there are at least...
 There are a number of members of this council who will walk out and will sit down with a map and look at it in detail with your testimony. So if you could make sure we've got a written copy of that in the record, that would be extremely helpful. I will. Thank you very much. Thank you. The last point is there's a commercial node on 15th Brazil.
 which is nonconforming, and it's been there for years, and everybody has known about it. We don't want it changed at all, and just leave it as it is, and it is surrounded by residences. It's R5 now? Yes. Okay. Yeah, make sure we've got a copy of that, please, because that's very helpful that you're that specific for us. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Hales? Yes. Mayor Hales, here.
 Unfortunately, we've lost a caller. Oh, no, we haven't. No, we haven't. Sorry. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Who'd like to be next? Go ahead, please. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. Thank you for having us. My name is Tisanga Davis. I'm representing Microenterprise Services of Oregon. What we are requesting that the city include address 4008 Northeast Martin Luther King,
 4009 Northeast Grand and 4003 Northeast Grand and the comprehensive plan to change the zoning to EXD zone, central employment zoning. We would like these properties, their history of these properties have been commercial use and they've been always used for commercial, but their zone residential use. Okay, got it. Thank you. Please.
 Thank you again for the extended opportunity. My name is Felicia, and I'm also representing MISO. I wanted to just say the building in which we are leasing has always been commercial space. Since moving, we moved there in 2011, and it's in a parking lot now.
 But we're becoming a staple in the community since we've been there. And we are serving many, many, many more people than we did when we were on Alberta and 28th. We served at least over 40% African Americans. And we just would like for you to really consider rezoning as a commercial space.
 That's $4,008 MLK and $4,003 and $4,009 grand? Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Wendy Chung, and I live in the Alphabet Historic District in northwest Portland. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. You will note that you're receiving a packet today.
 that will supplement the testimony of the NWDA as well as some testimony that I provided in writing last week. I also want to respond to the comment made by an earlier testifier about the use of the word historic
 to oppose density. And I just want to point out, I live in the most dense neighborhood in all of Portland, and we are most certainly not opposed to density. So I'd just like to point out that the comments here are indeed intended to support the preservation of historic districts, much along the lines of folks from Irvington, Elliott,
 Basco Mulligan Foundation, the Architectural Heritage Foundation have testified previously, so I'll try not to repeat anything that's been said previously. In your packet, you'll see I've made specific comments to the comp plan language, but today I want to draw your attention to two specific suggestions for changes to zoning
 that will support Goal 5 of Oregon's statewide planning goals and guidelines, which requires local government to adopt programs that conserve historic and open space resources for present and future generations. First, as others have commented, the FAR needs to be changed in RH properties within the Alphabet Historic District, as well as other historic districts from 4 to 1 to 2 to 1.
 And I'd like to encourage the transfer of air rights from historic properties to non-historic properties, but outside of the historic district. So in other words, in some instances, there's been, especially in our neighborhood where we have a lot of development, an attempt to transfer bonus rights onto properties within the historic district. So I would ask that you consider the possibility of prohibiting that kind of transfer. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are 79, Mary Ann Schwab, 91, Karen Carlson, and 92, Rick Michelson, and they'll be followed by 98, Ike Harris, 100, Rod Merrick, and 106, Bill Fahling. Mary Ann's coming up, so we've got all three of you, so...
 Okay. Karen, why don't you go ahead? Oh, okay. My name is Karen Carlson. I'm here representing the NWDA, Northwest District Association. A letter is about to be given to you that has testimony, detailed testimony from our planning committee and our transportation committees. But I'd like to just point out a few items that are in there.
 First is that the Northwest is called out in the comp plan as both an inner ring neighborhood and a town center. And after reading the descriptions of both, it's pretty clear that the town center most clearly defines our neighborhood, both its traditions and aspirations. Inner ring. Shoot. Thank you.
 So we're asking to have the town center designation removed from Northwest. The other is something you heard a little bit earlier about campus institutional zoning designation. In Northwest, the Good Sam facility is actually very unique in nature, the way it's integrated and functions within a neighborhood.
 Both NWDA and Legacy agree that this designation should not be placed on the Good Sam facility.
 The conditional use master plan serves the community and the institution well. And, in fact, the new institutional zoning would actually down zone the campus. Right now it's a 3.89 to 1 under the conditional use master plan. Institutional zoning would move it to 3.3 to 1 FAR.
 The last is outside the central city, all EX property, which is an employment zone designation, is being changed to a commercial mixed use. Okay.
 This does not actually recognize the reasons that some EX zoning has been placed in certain areas. Many inner ring neighborhoods, and particularly in the northwest, have this designation to preserve this low-scale industrial and service uses that we have and coexist with the residential and commercial uses.
 These areas are already being eroded even through the EX zoning. And I've included a map, which I think is really enlightening. All of that is in green as employment. This is what we call our eastern edge. The properties identified in red are new, mixed use, high density mixed use. The intent is that all of the area that you're seeing would be rezoned to CM3.
 We think this is not a good idea. It will cost jobs, and it will take away from our neighborhood what we think is a really wonderful patchwork of mixed-use commercial housing and employment. Thank you. Quick question. It's always dangerous for policymakers to think out loud in public hearings, but we've heard a couple of criticisms of the new institutional zone. Mm-hmm.
 If we were to create a mechanism by which existing conditional use master plans lived on,
 Would that ameliorate your concern? I mean, granted, at some point the new rules would kick in at the expiration of that original conditional use master plan, but they've all got expiration dates. So what do you think of that notion? Well, I think in Northwest we have more issues than the conditional use master plan. One of the things about the institutional designation is that it locks in the boundaries of what that institution is.
 The Good Sam one is a little convoluted, and it was dis...
 designed basically in the 1980s to protect as much housing as possible, but it's also created some little pockets that are going to be hard to really redevelop for the hospital. And it may be viable for us to say, do some swapping of land too. But if it's in the comp plan, then it has to be a comp plan amendment. I don't think that's really beneficial. One of the things we've been thinking about in Northwest is actually adding a sub district to our plan district. That would be the good Samaritan campus area.
 And in doing that, we'd be able to kind of combine some of the things that institutional zoning is trying to accomplish, but also some of the things that have been long negotiated under our conditional use master plan that we're all happy with, we're all satisfied with. So that may be our solution then to try to continue a conditional use master plan. That's helpful. Thank you. Mary Ann, if you don't mind, we're just going to stay in Northwest for a little while and then come back to it. Thanks.
 Actually not. Oh, maybe not. Rick Michelson, I'm actually here probably for the first time to talk about a particular piece of property I own. I own property on North Williams between Ivy and Fremont. Not Northwest. ComPlan is proposing to rezone from RXD to RH. I oppose that rezone.
 I've met with the Neighborhood Association and the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods, both of whom would prefer to see that site remained RX rather than transfer it to RH, and for a variety of reasons. One is RH does not allow any ground floor retail in that space. That would be the last piece of that block without ground floor retail. The Elliott Neighborhood Plan has long called for that to have retail. Secondly, the height limit in the RH zone is 75 feet.
 Under the present RX zone and the agreement that was reached with you for the rezoning, portions of the site are limited to 65 feet and others are listed to 40 feet, which are the height limits we want to do rather than having the 75-foot height limit. And thirdly, under the present situation, projects would have to go through design review. If this project were changed to RH, design review would not be required for the project, which we all think is a step in the wrong direction.
 I think we're caught in one of those transition areas where I know the city staff has tried to move the RF zone into only the central city. But I think there are a few locations where maybe that's a mistake, and it would be better to keep what's been agreed to today for the betterment of the neighborhood and the city. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Mary Ann, please. Good evening. Two guesses whose computer crashed this afternoon, so I will give you my documentations. I'll read.
 at the end of this I have them all over here I'm here to go through some oops is with the goal number one when you have a coalition office so we have seven of them and they write City Council regarding something that's really beneficial to those communities and we wait seven months to get a response that's not nice
 And one I'll address is the street fees. We asked for information. We filed a public request, waited 53 days, and then we as citizens were asked to pay a $2,500 fine to get the information. This is happening any time there's a blooper with a conditional use. Now, she just mentioned the institutional zones. Once you get them in there,
 I've read your document here, 148 pages. There's loopholes in here that's not written very clear. And I'm really happy to see that I've read the 15 hospitals and colleges. I support that. But I also respect her right to say, wait a minute, this is my neighborhood. And you really need to hear the people that live in those areas first.
 Sunnyside has been asking and lobbying for a recreational center now for almost 35, if not 40 years. The school closed in 1980.
 Sarah King came in and said, oh, I didn't know I had to go to Buckman and address this. She submitted a letter at 4 o'clock Friday, March 13th, asking to rezone that 1.31 acres zoned RH open space to CM3. And to the credit of your staff working in the planning, they said absolutely no spot industrial zoning. But why is it we have to wait so long to get our pool?
 And I'm at the jumping off point, and I'm not so sure I'm going to be able to jump in it. I really supported the bond to fix our parks.
 and I support what Amanda is trying to do, but every time she moves two inches, she gets back to back, and I feel I've been backhanded on some of this stuff too. The letter from Southeast Uplift has asked that you consider buying this land. You had that surplus money, and I want to throw one more thing out here for your bureaus not talking to each other. I just found out about a design committee that came into St. Francis Apartments, 106 units of the 106, only 11 are deeply subsidized.
 And why is it when Dan Salzman says we need 600 to 800 low-income housing, 100 of them are plopped in our neighborhood? And how is it the design committee could make them upgrade the skin on that building, make smaller windows? Again, one brave person said no, did not vote on that. And now we've lost 32 to 34 on-site parking spaces.
 Where do we as citizens challenge this without having to pay these fallacious fees? I'm angry. The comp plan, all the work that Aviva did, reads well on paper, but there's no enforcement. And I found it a little testy.
 I want to jump in that pool. All right. Well, make sure you leave us your information, and I think we might also keep the record open a little bit longer if people need it. That was my last statement. Please keep this open so that other people that are just now figuring out what happened. I was here for the Portland plan with seven citizens, missing in that document with –
 was the school property and the public involvement piece. I can name those seven people, and here I am today, seven years later, we haven't moved an inch. Thank you. Thank you. Next three are 98, Ike Harris, 100, Rod Merrick, and 106, Bill Failing. And they'll be followed by 107, Tom Karwacki, 113, Nick Rossi, and 114, Rudy Kadlob. Good afternoon.
 Welcome. I think you're on first, Mr. Harris. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and City Council. My name is Ike Harris, 39-year resident of Northeast Portland, a member of the Concordia Neighborhood Association Board. I'm here today to present gentrification from a pastoral point of view. Let's view gentrification from a cultural, political, historical, economical context. First, historical. Historical.
 What makes Oregon unique, negatively, is that the black population is only 2%. When Oregon was granted to statehood in 1859, it was the only state in the Union admitted with a constitution that forbade black people from living, working, or owning property here. Wallace Cafe, the post-Kaiser shipyard era, Vanport, black laws, exclusionary laws,
 and York, a slave that worked with Lewis and Clark, an Afro-American. After the expedition was over, he received six mules and a wagon, and everyone else got 325 acres of land. The parallel with Oregon past and Oregon present are draconian, to say the least. After Socrates read Draco's laws, he stated that this came from a sick person.
 Gentrification is economic Darwinism because it produces the survival of the fittest, which robs Afro-Americans from leaving the most copies of itself in successive generations. Gentrification is also the Geek-Schultons enforced by Adolf Hitler, which produce the enforcement and standardization and elimination of all opposition.
 within the political, economical, cultural, and historical Afro-American influence from the state, and Northeast Portland in particular. Institute new bold policies from the legislative body in Salem and the Oregon Supreme Court that favor strengthening Afro-Americans in the economic and housing sectors so that the testimony from the state of Oregon will fulfill the U.S. Constitution of Self-Determination
 Dr. King's dream of equality and the words of Almighty God who said, who made, brother, of one nation, of one blood, God made all nations of men to dwell on all the face of the earth and has determined the times before appointed and the boundaries of their habitation. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Rod Merrick. He's more than Landia's co-chair. And I have two slides.
 Okay. We're queuing up. It takes a village to operate our AV system. I didn't give her enough warning, but we have two slides. And I wanted to highlight, I mean, we've given extensive testimony, but I wanted to highlight a couple of issues of things that I think need to be addressed in this plan before it's finalized. And in many ways there are a lot of wonderful things in it. But there are a couple of areas that really do need attention. Okay.
 Yes, that's good. So they're in front of you on your screens, I'm presuming. The first area is in Chapter 3, pattern areas. And that is we need to clarify the five portlands. The five portlands are a notion that undermines and is completely inadequate to address the context-specific themes that are advocated in the plan.
 And I've heard this over and over again from many people, and I'm going to assume that you guys have as well. We need to come up with a better definition of what contextual design is about. The second item is Chapter 10, the land use designations. The paragraph referring to alternative development options should be removed from the plan because it locks in many of the worst aspects of the residential code as policy requirements.
 Others have testified that these specific code sections not be included in the plan, but I don't think I have a problem with that, but I do have some problems with talking specifically about particular areas of the zoning code which, in fact, are under consideration for reform. The third item is a recommitting to complete neighborhoods based on
 planning that involves the integral role of the neighborhood associations and business associations in the process, because community engagement processes are not being respected, as you've heard from the coalition leaders, and the neighborhood associations are all but ignored in the plan as integral to that planning process. Thank you.
 And finally, I'd just like to say something about preservation. The missing theme of preserving what we love and improving what is neglected and unloved needs to be given more emphasis. The second... Let's see if I can get this to go to the second...
 What do I do to make it go to the second slide? The second slide is very specific to our neighborhood's repeated request to be zoned R7. And I just want to give you kind of a quick picture of what R7 means and where the numbers fall out in our neighborhood. All right. Hang on. We'll find the map. It's about to come up, page 2. There we go. Nope. Nope, nope.
 It's page two of that slide. So it's in the same PDF there? It's in the same PDF. You just have to go to the next, I guess, whatever. Try sliding it down. There we go. There you go. Okay. So just to remind everybody, R7 allows lot sizes from a minimum of 4,200 to 12,000 to a maximum of 12,000 square feet.
 The chart here shows what different quadrants of our neighborhood average lot sizes are. And as you can see, they're all well over 4,200 square feet. And they are very much in this range. And this is the appropriate, R7 is the appropriate designation for this neighborhood.
 And the fact that the lot sizes have varied significantly from the basic density standards is the trigger that has caused a lot of problems and needs to be addressed. And we're asking that our area B be given the R7 designation.
 Thank you. I know you've submitted written testimony, but Carla, would you make sure that we get copies of those slides since they're in the record as well? Because that's handy reference for us based on your testimony. And I'll provide some additional supplemental testimony. We have given many pages of testimony previously and we'll...
 Provide this and I mentioned this to miss Schwab earlier But it's my intention to leave the written record open until for close of business on Friday Okay, so people can get additional information into the record if they haven't gotten it in today So thanks to her computer problem and just logistics in general. We want to make sure that everything gets in so thank you very much Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon Mary Hales fellow commissioners. I'm bill failing and
 I'm here to address the potential property change, number 1128, formerly number 644, a threat to the status of Strohecker's store property, and to provide an overview of this immediate area as one who's been familiar with this combination of grocery and adjoining park joined at the hip, and I've experienced this for about 70 years.
 betraying my age. The neighborhood interaction in this park and the store has been a cultural definition of the area. Generations learned tennis, basketball, baseball, all kinds of organized sports, me included. Right.
 for almost, well for generations. And after that would, the sports would happen, we'd all go over to Struycker's, and we would, which has been a business since 1904, and have a soda pop, later transitionalized to a beer,
 But it was a social hub, and now it's got coffee, and it's got people collecting there as kind of a social crossroads, a meeting place.
 There's more about this than just being a grocery store, which, by the way, is going out of business January 31st. It's part of a neighborhood culture and character that has not been erupted in my lifetime, nor in my family's preceding me.
 I'm asking the council today to not allow a change of this property's zoning, which has protected this property by comprehensive plan ordinance since 1984. Another grocery operator will surely fill this about-to-be-empty space just as it has in the past. I worry about how the new property owner who lives in Southern California and who can only be interested in the property's ROI –
 can possibly understand the importance of neighborhood that exists in this area. And neighborhood, I'll say it again for emphasis. Wrap up, Bill. I think we got the point about Strohackers. All right, good. Anyway, I've got 250 names of people who have signed this, names and addresses, who have asked that this be represented, and I'm here to make sure it's done. Mr. Foley, what's it proposed to be rezoned to?
 So it's preserving. The zoning right now, Commissioner, is that the present zoning is still supposed to protect and keep anything else beyond a grocery from occurring, but it can be changed very easily. It's got a conditional use now, is that right? Well, this goes back to 1984, Mayor. Okay, we'll look into it. Thank you very much. We get it. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next three are 107, Tom Karwacki, 113, and 114, Nick Rossi, and Rudy Cadlub. And they will be followed by 67, Emily Geis, 118, Stephen Keller, and 119, Alan Redwick. Go ahead, Tom. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Tom Karwacki, Vice Chair of the University Park Neighborhood Association, and we have several other members of the Board here. So we came and we request that you consider the following things. First of all, we really agree with all of the comments dealing with neighborhood associations and suggest you add a policy number 6.8 dealing with neighborhood associations with respect to the planning and the comp plan, just like business districts.
 Our main issues are, number one, we don't like the institutional campus zone, which is our number four in my written statement. We weakly support the idea of it being coming on SE2 for the Baxter-McCormick property, but in general, we're opposed to the campus institutional zone, prefer the comp property.
 process and it was a very important process for us. We had over 700 people within our neighborhood get involved in that process, far more than you have, Ed, actually, in this. So it's quite a bit. Water Bureau is the main property that is concerned. We tried to make comments using the map app and they didn't accept them. So dealing with the idea of open space for what was in the Water Bureau land on the Cary Boulevard.
 And this mid-peninsula trail, we would ask that the main classification of R5, which is the current one, be maintained rather than going to R2. And suggest that you consider a policy 8.93 dealing with recreational trails.
 to have a 50-foot setback on new trails. And we're willing to pay $1,000 to help the city and create a stakeholder master plan for the Water Bureau land where everybody can live with whatever is decided. So we'd like to start working with the city on that.
 You heard about the issues we've had with south of Willamette Boulevard before, and our main issues besides that would be that we would consider affordable housing impact statements as a policy, perhaps 5.45%.
 Dan, this is a very useful thing. New Orleans, Atlanta, San Diego are all using these impact statements as a way of mechanism of implementing affordable housing and the policies that are in this document. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Joe Rossi. I'm representing LACA.
 three families that are farm families in the Park Rose area. It's the Giusto family, the Gary family, and the Rossi family. We're a multi-generational, four- and five-generation family farm in northeast Portland. We have a unique 22-continuous acre site within this comp plan that has some zoning on it that I want to address,
 i talked to the plan to the families and i really studied the 2035 plan and i want to say that we're all very enthusiastic supporters of their goals mostly because of the number one goal of creating complete communities we're in the bullseye center of park rose if you look on the map we have park rose high school in the left corner u.s post office
 We swing around to Beach Park and Shaver School. I just want to say thank you. Our community is very excited about our new park, and they touch our properties. We have R7 and 3, and we swing around to Park Rose Middle School. It's an exciting site because it has the potential for a complete walking and biking community. We have...
 K-12 schools. We have what we're missing, though, is some very key pieces to make it a complete community. We're obviously missing neighborhood grocery, neighborhood supporting businesses, and appropriate densities to support all that. It's also exciting that we have north-south, east-west transit, and we're one of the entryways to the corridor. Okay.
 We engaged Rudy Cadlib here of Coastal Pacific to help us to meet the goals of the comp plan and specifically creating a complete community for our park roads. Thank you. Welcome. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, I'm Rudy Cadlib of Coastal Pacific Communities.
 Over the last couple of decades we've been involved with master planning, developing two major master planning communities, Renko Station in Hillsboro and currently Villebois in Wilsonville.
 We're just delighted to be able to team up with the Rossi family on this site and apply what we've learned over the years in creating complete communities. This is a classic potential infill site here. We have thousands of jobs to the north, north of Airport Way, which is void of housing now.
 By increasing the density in the housing in this area, we ostensibly reduce vehicle miles traveled in the region. Many of those people who travel many miles to get to the airport way could live close by. I'm a little concerned about, if you look at the three maps, if you would go to the airport,
 The third map, which is the latest proposed zoning, you'll see that there is R3 to the east and then a mixed-use civic corridor along 122nd. And in between is an EG zone, an employment zone. We feel that that is strategically out of place in this area. It would require it.
 would become a dead zone in the community if it was just an office park or industrial. It's inappropriate being as close as the schools. And the return on investment we can get by increasing the number of housing units in the area, housing that is more affordable than what R5 or R7 would be, and would provide enough rooftops, hopefully, to support a grocery on the west side of 122nd
 122nd on the west is the going home side for all those airport way people be the best spot to do a local grocery and so to that end we are requesting that we um we
 not have the EG zone, that we expand the R3 and the mixed-use civic corridor zone on the east and expand the mixed-use civic corridor zone to the west. That zone will allow us to get a palette, if you will, that will allow us to do a creative, integrated, diverse neighborhood of
 mixed-use retail, a variety of residential types, and service retail as well. A couple of questions.
 In fact, I was meeting earlier today with both the planning and the transportation staff about future street plans for large areas where redevelopment would occur. I assume that you're still at the notional stages of how this might get redeveloped or developed because it's been agricultural land in much of this area for a long time.
 there would be some requirement for if it was mixed-use density for some kind of grid of streets to marry into the neighborhood grid around it. I assume your plans incorporate that sort of planning 101 notion. Well, you're familiar with the projects we've done in the past. They're all grids, not necessarily east-west grids because they follow the topography, but no dead-end streets. Most of the products are alley-loaded, rear-loaded products.
 And then the site that's shown in light yellow between the middle school and your property, that's not in your ownership or in these families' ownerships, right? Yeah, I think that's a mistake on the map. That's actually Park Rose Middle School property. So that's, okay, that's school district property. Correct. Part of the middle school campus. That's correct, yeah. So there's no other property owner between your property and the school district's property.
 That's correct, yeah, we border the school district property. And back to your question, it says, yes, connecting walking paths and biking paths on the whole site, not creating rectangles of disjointed development. Okay. Okay.
 Questions? Thank you all. Thanks very much. I have a question. I'm wondering about having all of it zoned R3 rather than some of it R7, like some of the surrounding areas for more of a mixed-income neighborhood. Did you consider that? I would like to address that, and maybe you want to say something. We have a big ocean of R7 in all directions around us. There's really no R3 except for on the north side. There's some R3 touching us.
 So to get the appropriate mix of housing, I really think we need some higher density, which means some people don't want to mow their yards. Anyways, to get the diversity of product, I think we need R3 because we have so much R7 in all directions now. And did you think about other zones such as R2.5?
 I think having the mixed-use commercial corridor gives us the flexibility of some denser housing, so I'm assuming that we can incorporate some density in that. We're open to that, of course. We just don't want to ask for too much because presently a lot of that R3 is R3, and I think it gives us the flexibility, but…
 If we really do some studies, that might be a more appropriate density. You're right. It's obviously going to be a lovely development. And I think you may be one of the few people who has been at every single one of these comp plan hearings. So I really appreciate your diligence in following the process. I think it's going to be a lovely development.
 i think it would be very fun to be a planner looking at that property and figuring out how to make a nice mixed development with a mix of home ownership opportunities as well as rentals and yards on your beautiful agricultural land it makes me a little sad to think of so much of the land being uh covered with housing considering how fertile it's been over the last century and more so that was to my more to my uh the thrust of my question is is there some opportunity to uh
 leave some open space and some space for gardening well we we do have a lot of open space adjacent to parks and the schools surrounding it so but you can't plant stuff on my park
 Or on city parks. We'll figure out a way to do a community garden area there. I think that would be appropriate. The Rossis are committed to doing a legacy project there and I suspect that it will have some type of farm theme throughout. So we're excited about it. We've done some initial studies that Argue area is one of the lowest median family income and housing price is in the whole city.
 And, frankly, the cost of, as some would want, R5 or R7, the cost of developing 5,000 and 7,000 foot lots and the housing that would go on it.
 the median family income in that area simply wouldn't support that. Yeah, I was thinking something more like Fairview Village, where there's so much, there's some dense townhouses, there's a mixture of all kinds of different stuff. Right, exactly. I'm not all that familiar with the R3 zone as to how flexible that is, but I want to make sure that you have a designation that allows you to do something innovative and really fun.
 Right. We think that after meeting with the planning staff, we think that the mixed civic corridor will give us the flexibility to do a variety of housing types. Thank you. That's a great opportunity. Thank you. Not very many sites this size in the city. Thank you very much. Okay. Next three are 67, Emily Geis, 118, Stephen Keller, and 119, Alan Redwick. Okay.
 They'll be followed by 120 mark bellow and 121 Brian post wits and then the new list number one Brad Perkins Good afternoon
 Good afternoon. My name is Emily Geist, and I'm one of the co-chairs of BikeLoud PDX. In that capacity, I wanted to say that we support the comp plan overall, but of course, we would still like to see a bit more bicycle infrastructure projects included so that it's closer to what's in the 2030 bike plan.
 We have emailed a letter with more detail about what we would specifically like to see. And then just as a personal citizen, I just wanted to say I'm a huge fan of smart infill development, especially the kind that allows for green space preservation like duplexes, tri, fourplexes, and ADUs.
 And I currently live in a seven-plex myself, and I'd love to see more smaller apartment like that in more residential neighborhoods with multifamily zoning in more what is now currently single family. I think this will help our city grow more responsibly without sacrificing walkability and bikeability.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hi, I'm Alan Rudwick, the Land Use Chair for the Elliott Neighborhood Association. I want to talk about a big void in the middle of our neighborhood that's currently a bunch of land that's owned by Legacy Manual Hospital, which by the way is a great hospital and I've
 nothing against the hospital. But they also have several blocks of structured parking, some surface parking, and some just completely empty land, even enough to put a big community garden on. Their land, hopefully you're familiar with the site, but all the hospital is west of Vancouver Avenue. And there's one half block east of Vancouver that has been developed.
 Although, according to their new campus manager, that is essentially a teardown. So we would like to get the lots to the east of Vancouver between Vancouver and Williams developed into a high-density mixed-use zone. We think that's appropriate given that the Williams corridor has been expanded.
 growing quickly. This is kind of a missing link. South of Russell Street, there's pretty big development and a couple more developments being proposed. And north of the hospital's property, there are a number of large developments, current and under construction, being proposed as well. The intersection of Russell and Williams was formerly the heart of this community, although I was not here at that time. But
 It's kind of the logical center to have on two main corridors to have a big space that's away from single-family homes. It's a good space in the neighborhood to increase density, which I know you guys, that was one of the goals of this plan. So we'd like to not only see the zoning change on this property, but also we'd like to see the city actively try to get this property developed, whether through a community development corporation or some other mechanism. Okay.
 it's basically a land bank for the hospital and it's been 40 years the city helped them get this land by the way thank you thanks very much next three are 120 mark bellow 121 brian postwitz and then from the new list for today number one brad perkins and they'll be followed by two three and four blythe olsen adam horse kirsten and roger jones okay how many do you have on the new list
 Okay, great. Mark, please. Good afternoon. Let me personally say this is quite poetic, being about the last to testify. As in 1980, I was one of your first employees to actually introduce the 1980 comp plan. I'm here representing the Urban Forestry Commission.
 And we thank you very much for allowing our commission to come to you in support of several crucial policies. We are very supportive of policies that are in three chapters that I think testify to the positive impact of trees and the importance of our urban canopy. They are in chapters three, urban form, chapter seven, environment and watershed health, and eight, public facilities.
 You should have a copy of the revised sheet. Yes, we will. And this is to make it very simple. I'll keep it very short, that the urban forest policies were very supportive. We've suggested some language changes to strengthen them to make them more directive. Chapter 3, since trees do play a significant role in making Portland's future growth positive for residents, we also suggest that...
 We talk about large-form trees rather than the more vague current proposed language, such as extensive tree plantings or prominent trees. This is a very exciting time for forestry. The management plan is kicking in. Title XI is off to a successful start, and we've been able to do some research on
 One of the key things that we've learned, David Diaz on the Urban Forestry Commission has been able to determine that Douglas firs, which are large form, have, for example, almost a five-fold positive benefit to the city. The trees are worth $4.9 billion if you were to replant them, if you could order them up. And actually, in terms of what they do for stormwater control,
 carbon sequestration and air pollution removal, that's $40 million per year. So if you want more bang for your buck, plant larger trees. Finally, we'd like to urge that you not change, that you support policy 8.41, which is trees and rights of way. The logic behind that is that we are going to lose land to private development. We will retain our rights of way and the widths of our rights of way. And through creative design, we can actually
 support canopy goals, and support transportation functions. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Brian Pazowitz. Thank you for the chance to testify. I live in the Selwood neighborhood in particular. I live about four blocks south of the New Seasons Market that's on Tacoma Street there. I've owned a house in Selwood since 1996. In the time I've been there, I've seen a lot of change. I've seen a lot of things torn down. I've seen houses torn down. I've seen industrial buildings torn down. And I've seen those things replaced by a lot of different things.
 by apartments, by townhouses, by skinny houses, and by things people would call monster houses. I've seen the changes result in more density and in taller buildings, and some of this has happened very, very close to me.
 All of this has significantly changed the character of my neighborhood, and there's a lot of pros and cons with all of these changes. But in general, I have to say that all of these changes have made my neighborhood a nicer neighborhood to be in. So I wanted to just come down here and support what I understand to be a couple of general principles of the comprehensive plan, the recommended draft plan.
 One is the principle of a compact urban form, both through more height and more density, and the other is the principle of concentrating development around centers and corridors. I support these general concepts both for environmental reasons, because I think it results in less driving and less sprawl, and also just for aesthetic reasons, because I think they produce more interesting and vibrant neighborhoods. Okay.
 So I support these changes, and I think in exchange for these benefits that we should be willing to accept some changes to the existing character of neighborhoods. In fact, I think it's a little unreasonable to think in a growing urban area that your neighborhood is not going to change over time. I think it has to.
 And I've got 10 seconds just to get down in the weeds with you a little bit. I'm generally pretty happy with the changes proposed for my neighborhood. The two exceptions, I think the down zoning in northwest Moreland is a little too aggressive.
 And on 13th Avenue south of Tacoma, I think the mixed-use zone should go to the end of the street and not stop at Sherritt. Traditionally, it's been a mixed-use area in that part of town. End of the street meaning city limits? 13th goes – well, I meant – I think 13th basically ends on the southern end at Garthwick. Okay.
 Yeah, and all the way down at that southern end, there's been industrial buildings, there's been retail shops, and for some reason the mixed use stops at Sherritt, and it's residential only after that. And I actually live very close to there. Yeah, I know what you mean. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. And the Springwater corridor is about to be continuous right there. Exactly. So there will be more pedestrian and bicycle activity soon. Exactly. Thank you, Park Bureau and PBOT. Thank you. Okay. Brad, welcome. Hi. Thank you.
 Thank you for hearing us today. The North Northeast Business Association. Put your name on the record, Brad. I'm sorry. I'll just jump there. I'm Brad Perkins. I'm Land Use Chair of the North Northeast Business Association. The North Northeast Business Association believes it is long overdue for Emanuel Hospital to follow through with its signed promise it made in March 1971 with the City of Portland and community, which was called the Replacement Housing Agreement.
 NEBA encourages the Portland City Council to begin the process by rezoning Emanuel's three vacant blocks on North Vancouver from IR to M3 zone. Our goal is to heal past wrongs by reviving the once thriving African American district by creating a center for a diverse population and uses such as retail housing and a medical vocational school.
 On February 28, 1967, Emanuel Hospital announced its four-phase plan for removal and development of 22 blocks of nearby properties. On May 30, 1970, PDC announced receiving $5 million from the federal government to acquire 209 households for Emanuel. The threat of this eminent domain powers were illegally used for private benefit.
 to force some unwilling landowners to sell. This process of displacing families, eliminating jobs, and demolishing historic properties tore the heart out of the once prominent black community.
 A decade of planning by Emanuel Hospital and PDC occurred before the first public hearing was held on July 29, 1970. Emanuel Displacement Persons Association, EDPA, formed soon after, but it was too late to stop Emanuel and PDC's plans. The hospital project moved forward after EDPA, Emanuel Hospital, HAP, and PDC signed an agreement of the replacement housing agreement in March 1971.
 The IR zone classification of these three blocks has caused a greater blight to North Portland community than it was before demolition of the popular historic district. No jobs, property taxes, or housing has occurred in these three blocks for 42 years. Emanuel Hospital has no interest in developing housing or hospital-related uses in the near future on these blocks. In closing, the Portland City Council, besides rezoning these three blocks,
 should also help create development cooperation involving the community, legacy, and PDC to plan and develop the 300 housing units and other community-based uses. Thank you. Thank you for your time. You're going to put that letter in the record, too, please? Yes. Thank you. I do have a record. Good. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Blythe Olson, Adam Herstein, and Roger Jones.
 And they'll be followed by number 6, 7, and 8, Veronica Bernier, Janet Freeman, and Andrew Paddock. Go ahead. My name is Blythe Olson, and I have lived in southwest Portland near... Oops, don't take that personally. I'll try not to. Near Strohecker's Market for almost 25 years. I don't want to repeat what Bill Failing already said, and I'll make this very short, but I want to...
 perhaps clarify the neighbors' concerns, the neighborhoods' concerns. We have over 200, I think, 240 people who have signed on to the comments that I wrote and have submitted in writing before, but more people kept adding their names. So I'll submit the entire list tonight.
 to clarify the change in the comp plan for that property is just a name change, I think from Neighborhood Commercial to CM1, I believe it is. And we've been told by the Planning Commission that those will be considered comparable
 in terms of the 1984 ordinance that restricts use of that property. The City Attorney's Office has reviewed that and said those would be considered comparable, that the ordinance will remain in force. This is what we want and what we need in order to have a voice, in order for the neighbors who live all around that area to have a voice in what happens to that property,
 and what the new owner, the developer from California who bought it, may try to do with the property. The only way we feel we'll have a voice is if that ordinance remains intact, and we've been told maybe a few words will be tweaked in months to come to make sure that those zones are comparable so that that will be the case. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Ms. Olson, I just wanted to thank you for not sending us 240 e-mails, but rather collecting your petitions and sending it in one go. That's really helpful. Thank you. Well, you're quite welcome. Some people did also send in individuals. Not 240. No. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, others that are still on the list? Veronica Bernier, Janet Freeman, Andrew Paddock. Come on up. Yes, please. Anyone else? Douglas Young. Alan Kessler. He's here.
 Why don't you go ahead. Thank you. Thanks for having me at short notice. My name is Janet Freeman, and I'm happy to own a beautiful house on Northeast 28th Avenue between Everett and Davis in the Kearns neighborhood. That house is not zoned mixed use. There is a little pocket between Everett and Davis on Northeast 28th,
 that is zoned R1, and we're sandwiched in with mixed use. We have the Coca-Cola syrup plant right kitty corner across the street, and Staccato Gelato, Bishop's Barbershop, Tavla Restaurant, and that whole little pocket is...
 zoned residential and on I have submitted testimony via email to this fact I've been wording working with Marty Stockton she's helped me and that Kern's neighborhood Association has written a letter on their properties behalf that that little pocket be rezoned as mixed use
 Because it's becoming engulfed in development, which I think is as it should be, because it's such a great area. So I'm here just to point out that oversight. I looked at the comprehensive plan map, and it's still all showing R1. And so there are a lot of nonconforming businesses there.
 So I just thought I'd come down and say, hey, it's a great area, and if we could have mixed-use people, could make the best use of the properties. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Welcome. Go ahead. Who would like to be next? Sure. My name is Alan Kessler.
 Three quick points. The first one is thank you for the policy that seems to be adding density throughout the city. In the corridors, the fact that you're adding density, all the benefits that have been talked about before, walkability, affordability, the environmental impact, for all those reasons, we should be embracing the growth and putting it there. I live in the Richmond neighborhood. I happen to be a member of the Richmond Neighborhood Association Board, although I'm not speaking for them tonight.
 And I have seen the pushback that you can get on this, and I appreciate Commissioner Novick's comments, and I'd like you to stand firm on doing the right thing in those regards.
 You may have seen some letters come in supporting a little personal campaign of mine to try to remove civic corridor designation and replace that with mixed-use urban center, at least on Powell, but probably throughout the city. Department of Transportation has not adopted Vision Zero. They engineer their roads to burn human lives in exchange for mobility. It's just a sign that
 decided as an engineering problem that some death is okay. We don't want freeways in our cities. I think by switching to mixed-use urban center where we're putting civic quarter, we send a strong message to ODOT that PBOT plans to take these over, and we want to build them out like neighborhoods, not like freeways.
 The last issue, not to pick too much on the mayor, but you can take it, I think, is your neighborhood of Eastmoreland. Just as an example, 1.5% African-American population. If you look at what you're proposing to do in Eastmoreland, it's just as beige as your neighbors. There are almost no changes. There was a great article, a great publication from the...
 Journal of the American Planning Association in this issue that emphasizes that low-density zoning leads to segmentation of wealth, especially creating pockets of wealth like your neighborhood is. And I don't think that's okay. I think that in order to add some diversity in your neighborhood, we need to add some color to the map. And not doing that there and in Richmond and all the other neighborhoods is unacceptable. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Andrew Paddock. I live in Buckman. It is often said that a beast can be brought down by a thousand small cuts, and I'd like to propose a similar thing with regards to transportation. Namely, I'd like to advocate increased spread of sidewalks throughout the city and pedestrian connections. Lots of little projects, and in many cases it's a lot of very small ones that I think would make a very big difference in terms of mobility throughout the city.
 and maybe more intelligent allocation of where those are built. In my neighborhood, we've had several of the curbs rebuilt, and they've been very nice, but they've also been unnecessary, while other parts of the city have gone without sidewalks completely. So that is one point I would like to make, is a more intelligent relocation of resources. And secondly, with regards to planning for future transportation, I would like to advocate
 a bit of caution in remembering that new technologies that are being proposed, everything from driverless cars, small pods, things like that, are future unproven technologies that are not adopted, especially the driverless car, anywhere in the world, in actual commercial practice. And perhaps we shouldn't put our eggs in a basket that has not yet been proven. What the future holds, we'll see then, but I would advise against planning for it in the present.
 And it, of course, does nothing to counteract automobile reliance, especially for households who either cannot drive for economic reasons, health reasons, or for people like myself who are temperamentally unsuited for driving. And there's one final thing I'd like to point out, and this is the one big dream I would like to see, and this is in regards in particular to the MAX system throughout the city. I would like to see...
 Future investment going towards improving what we have presently, not to put down future expansion, but I would like to see things like prioritization in downtown of the lights so it can move through more quickly. Things like double tracking parts of the red line and maybe rebuilding gateway station on the lines that the Rose Quarter is, how the Yale line splits off. That would allow a two-track connection and a much faster progression.
 It is a system that is notoriously unreliable and slow, and so I would like to see that rectified before we make any future expansions. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. You know, there are some people who are temperamentally unsuited to driving who nevertheless still drive, so I appreciate your point very much. Thank you all very much. Thanks. I think we have one more person to testify. Ms. Bernier. Veronica. Oh, I'm at the lab. You may be. Anyone else who plans to speak?
 before we close the hearing you make it you make it the last word that's all right I love I love having less what hi good evening there it's good to see you Mary Hill it's always good to see you all looking well Commissioner Amanda Fritz you're looking well and Commissioner Steve Novick you're all looking well must have been well rested after Christmas vacation I see that Dan Saltzman has skipped out for just a minute I'm sure he's attending to city business
 And I don't see Nick Fish here right now, but I do welcome his input. I knew him from Sacramento, the State Board of Engineers. He's a man with a plan for all seasons. I was hoping to see him today.
 Speaking of plans for all seasons, I just wanted to bring up one thing, that if it's Murphy's Law, if something can go wrong, it will. And we had ourselves a great little snowstorm that was fun, dusting of fluffy white powder snow about six to eight inches. And it fell really lightly, and it was a big surprise on Sunday. And we all awoke to it, and it was kind of like a delayed Christmas.
 What happened after the snowstorm was pretty predictable, and that's why I want to bring this up. During the snowstorm, 211 kicked in. This is a 211 card they do give you, and various people did call 211 for weather-related information, but also places to stay. People on the freeway were able to call 211 and get some help during the snowstorm. It's a good, viable system, and it helps even homeless and wayward, not wayward travelers, but people along the freeway.
 During the snowstorm, other things happen too, and therein lies the plot. I'm a nurse, a former CVICU nurse. I've been in open-heart surgery. I've been in MICUs and orthopedic units all over hospitals. Amanda knows. She's a nurse herself. And as nurses, we feel committed to preserving and protecting life along the freeways and highways and byways, and I know that you all share the same values too.
 Sometimes in a snowstorm, we can get kind of a deadlock in the freeway, and the traffic patterns break down, and people get locked in. And locked in is what I wanted to bring to mention. Make it quick. You've got to wrap up. Half a minute. When people get snowed in, like the 455-pound man up on Mount Tabor, they get real desperate. And he did catch a triumet bus.
 But the bus crashed into a telephone pole, and it was real unfortunate. And those are the kind of nitty-gritty issues we have to work for during a snowstorm. And I hope we can come up with a better plan. And I hope it doesn't snow again, but it may re-hit. You just never know. So it's a challenge for the Commissioner of Transportation and for you, yourself, Mayor Hills. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for your help. Okay. Thank you. So if there's no one else who's here to testify, I'm going to close the –
 hearing for purposes of verbal testimony and leave the record open until Friday at 5 p.m. for those that would like to submit anything further in written form. Catherine, other advice, please, from our city attorney? Well, we have read one of only two items on the agenda. Right. I'm sorry. We've got to go back to that one. But for purposes of the comp plan itself, we're going to leave the record open until Friday at 5 p.m. Until Friday at 5 p.m. We might do that on the other document as well. I guess we could do both. Okay.
 so let's open that hearing and see if there's anyone here who's here to testify on what was item 28 but now has a different number help me again carla 51-1 is adopt new and amended supporting documents for an update of portland's comprehensive plan accept report of the citizen involvement committee this is just about the supporting documents was there anyone here to testify on the supporting documents okay so seeing none then i'll close that hearing as well right
 One very important thing. We need to continue the hearing on both items to a new date and time, which I believe we have settled on as April 14th at 6 p.m. Okay. So I'm closing testimony, continuing the hearing until that date. And as I mentioned earlier, there will be council work sessions in between in which we will consider the testimony and take up the question of amendments from each member of the council. Okay.
 I'd just like to thank the planning staff for your diligence, both at and between the meetings, and particularly the logistics of helping people get in and out. It was extremely efficient and well done. Also, whoever schlepped the records to every single hearing, I'm really impressed. It's following the letter of the law, and there it is, sitting right there. So thank you very much for doing that.
 i want to add my thanks as well there's a lot of work underway this is the most important document the city ever writes so that's something i care a lot about i know the whole council does and we've just gotten a tremendous amount of excellent testimony from the community over the course of these hearings appreciate that about portland very much so thank you all and uh if there's nothing further that we need to address on these items then we are adjourned for this week
 No, we're not. I mean, tomorrow. Oh, tomorrow, tomorrow. It felt like a Thursday. It does. It really does. I was just thinking that a few minutes ago.