advantage of that moment good afternoon everyone and welcome to the January 14th meeting of the Portland City Council would you please call the roll here fish your saltzman Novick yeah hails here welcome everyone we have a single item on the council calendar I'll have our clerk read that in a moment welcome and for many of you probably testified here before but the procedure is fairly simple simply let our council clerk know if you'd like to testify on the item after there's a presentation on it
 and we typically allow three minutes for testimony. We'll see if we might not have to reduce that, given the number of people here, in order to make sure that everyone is heard. Sometimes we reduce it to two minutes, so we'll figure that out in a moment. Also, on the subject of being heard, we always maintain decorum in this chamber, so if you agree with someone's point of view and want to show support, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand.
 Likewise, if you disagree with someone's point of view, a polite hand gesture to the negative is okay, but we ask that we not make vocal or applause demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view in this room so that everyone can be heard. Simple as that. So with that, I'll ask Carla to read the item, please. Thank you.
 Item 52, accept the 2015 management plan for Riverview Natural Area as a guide for future protection and use of the natural area. Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to ask Commissioner Fish to open this since he started the project. Okay. Oh, okay. My note said I followed you, but I'm happy to. Well, put it in order, Brad. Okay. So thank you, Mayor and colleagues. Okay.
 My history with this natural area dates back to 2011, when I had the honor of being commissioner in charge of Portland Parks and Recreation. Parks teamed up with BES, then led by Commissioner Dan Salzman. Metro, which was represented by former Governor Barbara Roberts, and the Trust for Public Land to acquire 146 acres of the Riverview Cemetery, one of the largest natural area acquisitions for the city,
 in over a decade. I decided to pull up the editorial issued by the Oregonian in 2011 because I think it was, frankly, one of the most positive editorials I've read since. And I'm going to just selectively quote from the editorial. The city has long had its eye on that land. Portland Parks and Recreation coveted the forested acreage for its potential trails, wildlife connectivity, and stellar habitat.
 on a par with Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge across the river. The Bureau of Environmental Services had targeted the area as a top priority to purchase for watershed protection. Seven streams run via culverts under Highway 43 to Powers Marine Park and the Willamette. It goes on with some other commentary, and then it closes with the following. No matter how long the city commissioner's careers may be,
 few will make decisions with any longer-lasting reverberations than this one. That was a proud moment for all of us when we were able to capture this vitally important natural area. And as I mentioned, the land, from the point of view of BES, was specifically acquired to protect water quality, habitat, and wildlife in the Willamette River watershed.
 In fact, acquisition and restoration of this property were the two top priorities identified in BES's Riverview Sub-Watershed Improvement Strategies Report. And in addition, the site was identified in PARC's Natural Area Acquisition Strategy and as a target in Metro's 1995 and 2006 Natural Area Bond Measures. In the four years since acquisition, the City, along with Riverview's many stakeholders,
 has conducted large-scale restoration activities to address erosion and invasive species. This includes the installation of over 75,000 native trees and shrubs. Today, we take another important step forward, receiving a proposal two years in the making that will guide our management of the natural area to ensure that this important resource is protected. I'd like to begin by thanking the members of my team, Commissioner Fritz, from the Bureau of Environmental Services,
 who devoted so many hours over the last two years to deliver this plan. And they are as follows. Melissa Brown, environmental specialist. Paul Bushman, Willamette Watershed. Mary Bushman, ecologist. And Shana Anderson, land conservation. And finally, before I turn it over to my friend and colleague, Commissioner Fritz, the Bureau of Environmental Services has a great tradition of working collaboratively with Portland Parks and Rec.
 and i say that as someone who has had the honor of both leading the parks bureau and now bes and i believe this plan represents the best tradition of that collaboration i urge the council to adopt the plan today so that we can continue to make progress in preserving this jewel of a natural area thank you
 Thank you, Commissioner. So my association with this property dates back a long time. I was the co-founder of the Triune Creek Watershed Council, and this has long been the jewel of natural areas in deep southwest Portland, and working collaboratively with the Collinsview Neighborhood Association, an area that we've long cherished and wanted to
 bring into public ownership. So I'm particularly proud to have carried on the good work from Commissioner Fish as the Parks Commissioner to now leading the effort over the last two years under the great guidance of our director, Michael Batte, and our project leader, Emily Roth. So along with Michael Jordan, they're here to present the plan.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the City Council, thank you. My name is Mike Jordan. I'm the Director of the Bureau of Environmental Services. There's not much I can add that Commissioner Fish hasn't already said, except one particular that folks may or may not be aware of. This is a question that I've been asked a lot.
 This is probably the most intact sub-watershed in the entire city with only 9% of its cover impervious surface, as we know now. And to preserve it and acquire it is an amazing feat for the city, as was noted by the Oregonian.
 I was not here for most of this process, and yet it is one of the things I've heard the most about since I have been here for seven months. This process and the incredible resource that it represents
 and the potential there for helping us meet some of our requirements regarding salmonid species in the Willamette. As many people will remember, last summer was a rough year for salmonids in the Willamette, predominantly because of temperature issues.
 There are seven streams, as the Commissioner noted, that enter the Willamette from this parcel. It will go a long way towards helping us maintain temperatures in the Willamette that will be conducive to species that we're here to protect. The last thing I'd like to say is I want to
 Having not been here but having heard a lot, I want to compliment not only the staffs but all of the citizens that were involved in this process. Regardless of how they feel about things in this, and I know there are a myriad of opinions that are heartfelt.
 To get to this place through a very open process is something that everyone who is involved really should compliment themselves and each other for. It isn't easy to do. This is hard work. And to get to this place on something this important, everybody should be happy about having worked on it together. And so I want to compliment everybody having not been here and hand it over to Mr. Abate.
 Thanks, Mike. And Mayor, City Council, Mike Abate, Parks and Recreation Director. And I certainly want to start by just acknowledging that this has been a long process, but it's been a long and thorough process. And I want to thank everyone for staying involved in this process over the past couple years.
 Particularly want to thank Emily Roth, who's been our project manager and a senior planner with the Bureau, Maya Spencer, who has coordinated the public involvement process, Rachel Felice, who's in the audience, our Natural Area West supervisor, Jeff Huff, our trail coordinator, and Kendra Peterson-Morgan, our staff ecologist. Those have all been critical people involved in this process.
 And I think we all should be proud of the Riverview Natural Area Management Plan. The plan meets the goals and guidelines developed at the beginning of the project, including protecting 87 acres for a habitat preserve in the center of the site for water quality and wildlife habitat, the streams that Mike Jordan just mentioned.
 It provides appropriate recreational access that provides a variety of experiences, including a completely accessible loop trail at the upper part of the site, and innovative best management practices for trail development, for the construction and the management of trails to make sure that those natural resource values are protected.
 Riverview Natural Area is a key property for Portland Parks and Recreation in our natural area portfolio. It's connected to Powers Marine Park, located along the Willamette River. These seven streams are incredibly important to the health of the Willamette River. They're not just seven streams on the site, but they provide cooling water to the Willamette River.
 And the management of both the riverine landscape at Powers Marine and the upland at Riverview are important and integral to each other. This plan will serve as a guiding document for the management of the site and allow Portland Parks and Recreation to seek funding for implementation.
 And I also would just say, for those of you who saw the site when we acquired it and have seen it recently, the transformation in restoration on that site has been absolutely unbelievable. It has been so successful that within our bureau, we see a vision of replicating that throughout Forest Park to take what we've learned at Riverview and expand that so that Forest Park is as healthy as it can be.
 So with that, I'd like to introduce Emily Roth, our senior planner, who will give a presentation overview of the Natural Area Management Plan. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and city commissioners. As you have heard, Portland Parks and Rec and the Bureau of Environmental Services partnered on both the purchase of Riverview Natural Area, the stabilization work, and the development of the Natural Area Management Plan.
 Riverview Natural Area has been touched by many hands since it was acquired. City staff, contractors, and the public. The property was acquired for watershed health, habitat preservation, and to provide public access compatible with natural resource protection. This 146-acre site is part of the West Side Wildlife Corridor and runs through the West Hills from Forest Park to Tryon Creek State Natural Area.
 It also connects to Powers Marine Park on the west side of the Willamette River and through it across to Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge on the east side. As you've heard, it contains seven streams, multiple wetlands, and it provides clean, cool water to the Willamette River for endangered fish. The interior forest provides habitat for greater than 45 species of birds. And just as Director Abate said, from purchase to present,
 We purchased the property in 2011 in partnership with Metro and the Trust for Public Lands. At the time of acquisition, the site was in poor ecological health. Invasive ivy and other weedy species covered the forest floor and smothered the trees. Elaborate tree forts, party spots, and campsites were interspersed throughout the forest. A spider web of informal trails crisscrossed the streams and steep hillsides.
 Today, when you visit the site, it is transformed. The tree ivy is dead. Native ferns, grasses, and other flowering plants are starting to cover the forest floor. Over 75,000 native trees and shrubs were planted and are growing. And many of the trails impacting water resources have been closed. And through our outreach to our neighbors at Riverview Cemetery and Lewis and Clark College, they are also removing invasive species on their adjacent properties.
 Unfortunately, there are still management issues. We have illegal camping, we have dogs off-leash dumping, and mountain biking, which is currently a restricted use. So we all embarked on the Riverview Natural Area Management Plan in September 2013. The city hired ESA Vigil Agrimis to provide consulting and public involvement services.
 A technical advisory committee was made up of staff from our partnering bureaus, Metro, and the Bureau of Land Management. And we worked closely with the consultant team on input on the plan and for reviewing documents. PPNR and BES reached out to neighbors, users groups, and environmental organizations, in addition to posting information on our website to recruit nominations for the project advisory committee. Fourteen people were selected.
 The PAC met six times, including a site visit. They reviewed document components and we had some very heated arguments. Not arguments. We had some heated discussions. At their final meeting, the majority of members recommended moving the plan forward to approval. Two members representing the mountain biking community and an adjacent neighbor submitted a minority report, not recommending the plan because mountain biking was removed from the process.
 The project team also held two open houses. The first was to review the site analysis information, and the second to recommend to look at the access concept. There was also a two-week online survey for the public to submit comments after each open house. We established five goals for the management plan. The first, to protect aquatic and terrestrial wildlife and their habitats.
 Next, to protect water quality and hydrology in Riverview Natural Area streams and the adjacent Willamette River confluence area. To improve forest health and structural diversity. Provide recreation access that is compatible with the protection of natural resources. Foster community engagement, environmental education, and research.
 In front of you is the access concept, and I would just like to quickly walk through it as it's kind of hard to read on the screen. I'll use the pointer here for everybody in the audience. At the left-hand side is Southwest Palatine Road, which is the entrance – I lost the pointer –
 It's the entrance to the wild, which would be the entrance to the natural area. To the north is Riverview Cemetery, which is who we purchased the property from. As we've talked about, down here is Powers Marine Park and the Willamette River. And then here on the east side is our neighbor, Lewis and Clark. So again, we will enter the site from up here.
 The access concept for the plan shows a habitat preserve of 87 acres within the middle of the site. This is for the protection of wildlife and aquatic function and stewardship, education, and research opportunities. There are two loop trails and an accessible out-and-back trail to the larger headwater wetland. The loop trail at the top of the site provides the users with a lower gradient experience.
 The larger trail is very challenging because of the steep terrain. We are presently working with Lewis and Clark College to complete the loop on their property. We also provide two viewing areas, which are the purple dots, where you can actually step off the trail and enjoy viewing in and looking at the wildlife.
 The trail placement meets the design criteria developed for the plan, and when built, we will use the trail construction best management practices developed through this process. Our intent is that the trail system shown in this concept will be sustainably built for whichever uses are allowed at Riverview Natural Area, and that any additional trails would impact the natural resource function of this site.
 And for once... Just to clarify on that one, the trail, when it's done, the trail doesn't exist right now, right? That is correct. And when we do construct it, it will be constructed so it will be suitable for several different... Whatever uses are decided or appropriate. Right. And potentially so that mountain bikes could use it as well as hikers. Right. What we are saying is that this is the trail plan for whatever uses will be allowed, and we are not...
 put this trail plan together thoughtfully with the protection of natural resources and that we are not intending to put additional trails into the natural area. Thank you for the clarification. We are actually proposing parking at Riverview Natural Area. We are proposing a half street improvement in front of the site on Southwest Palatine Hill Road that will provide parking, stormwater treatment, and a sidewalk. Southwest Palatine Hill Road is shown in the
 Portland Bureau of Transportation bicycle plan as a shared bicycle automobile roadway. Both the trail and parking concepts will be refined when there is funding for design and construction. The construction estimate, not including soft costs such as design, permitting, and staff time, but including continued ecological enhancement and the access concept, is just over $5 million.
 Really, Riverview is all about the management plan. It's all about the stewardship. How we as a city, our citizens, and everyone else can protect this area. The component of the plan meets all the goals through the ecological prescriptions, the detail that actions needed to protect and enhance the ecological health of the site.
 Trail best management practices to ensure sustainable, safe trails are constructed and maintained. Water quality best management practices that protect the cool, clean water entering the Willamette River. The access concept that provides for public enjoyment of nature. Environmental interpretation and education about the functions of the site that inform and welcome users.
 and our continued work with partners and volunteer stewards to achieve long-term success. As I started out and said, there have been many hands that have touched Riverview Natural Area and many people.
 I would like to thank the Project Advisory Committee, the Technical Advisory Committee, and the consultant team for their valuable input, staying with the process, and their insights that have created the Riverview Natural Area Management Plan, the city's guide to future ecological protection and enhancement, recreation, and stewardship of this valuable natural area. There are a few individuals that I would specifically like to give a shout-out to.
 First, Team ESA Vigil Agrimis. Paul Agrimis, Steve Roloff, who is in the audience with us today, Susie McKee-Robinson, and Doug Zen. And though Mike has already done the shout-out, I have to repeat it.
 To Maya Spencer, who gracefully handled all the public involvement for this whole process from start to finish. I could not have done it without her. And Kendra Peterson Morgan, our site ecologist, who detailed every ecological prescription to make sure we had it correct.
 In the Bureau of Environmental Services, I would especially like to shout out to Shana Anderson, who was instrumental in purchasing the property and assisting with the plan, and Mary Bushman, the ecologist who, again, has detailed and made sure that this is going to be a valuable natural area for all of us to enjoy. Thank you.
 Are there any questions, comments? If not, I would like to introduce three members of the PAC who are going to come up today and talk to you about the process and the plan. Okay. Questions? One clarifying question. At the level of $5 million estimated for the entire implementation, how much would the trail cost? We estimate the trail at about $1.5 million. The half-street improvement is very expensive. Any other questions? If not, I'd like to invite members of the PAC. Okay.
 So I would like to invite three of our PATH members to come up to address council. Fran Laird, who's a Collinsview, represented the Collinsview Neighborhood Association. Chris Sautter, who is a South Burlingame neighbor. And Tony Limbo, who is with the Tryon Creek Watershed Council. Come on up, please. Thank you very much. And who would like to go first?
 One order? It doesn't matter? We can start at this end or that end? Could I get an open whip, please? I'm very, very nervous. I apologize. No, it's fine.
 the easy part the hard part was all of the committee work so thank you for being here my name is fran laird i was honored to be on the public advisory committee as the representative from collinsview i'm the southwest neighborhood incorporated representative for collinsview the parks representative from collinsview to sweeney and the second vice president of the sweeney board
 On November 7, 2006, the voters approved ballot measure 2680, which provided funds for the acquisition of natural areas from willing sellers. The measure was designed to provide the ability to protect the region's significant natural areas, fish and wildlife habitat, green waste, water quality, and lands near streams and rivers.
 Riverview Natural Area is regionally significant because it provides protection for wildlife habitat and water quality and is a connected waterfront corridor for wildlife and people and a refuge and rearing habitat for salmonids.
 This purchase was made with the specified intent to preserve one of the last remaining natural areas in the urban Portland setting. I have stated at the public advisory committee meetings that I would like to see a policy of regrowth and no usage permitted other than educational in the natural area. The infrared photo...
 included, presented at the May 15, 2015 Public Advisory Committee meeting, shows that there are very few sources of cold water feeding into the Willamette River and Riverview Natural Area provides three of them. The devastating images of dead salmon last June in the Willamette emphasizes how critical the Riverview Natural Area cold water input is.
 I support the master plan for the efforts to protect the natural area as specifically defined in the conservation easement agreement signed at the time of the purchase of the property.
 Especially the general purpose and specific purposes, conservation values is designated on page 2 of the purchase agreement contract. Prohibited uses and activities include any use or activity that causes or is likely to cause significant soil degradation or erosion. The mission of the public advisory committee was stated as the highest priority is protection and enhancement of the natural resource functions and values. Thank you.
 The Conservation Easement Agreement is a legal contract. It is the legal obligation of Portland Parks and Recreation, the Bureau of Environmental Services, Metro, and the City of Portland to ratify and enforce the principles and restrictions as voted on by the citizens of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. I apologize. Not needed. Thank you very much. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I'm Chris Sautter. I'm one of the Riverview PAC members, and I'm a longtime neighbor of Riverview. I live in the South Burlingame neighborhood.
 I've regularly visited Riverview for the last 15 years as a cyclist, a hiker, a runner, a parent, and a dog walker. To cut to the chase, I'm one of the three people that wrote the Minority Report. I can't support the proposed plan in its current form.
 A little history of what I experienced as a PAC member. Initially, I was excited and nervous about the city acquiring this property. Would city management make things better or worse? As a cyclist, I was definitely fearful of loss of access based on parks track record of excluding bikes from most trails in Portland. So when I had the opportunity to join the PAC and help shape Riverview's future, I jumped at the chance.
 In 2013 and 2014, we had a series of what I thought were very fruitful PAC meetings. The PAC members had a variety of viewpoints, and we had good-spirited discussions. I wouldn't have called them arguments. They were really good discussions about a range of topics. During the process, I honestly thought we were going somewhere. Then the meeting stopped for nearly a year in 2014.
 Around March 2nd, I think it was March 2nd, 2015, I received a call notifying me that bikes would be excluded from the plan effective March 16th, just two weeks' notice. This was a shock to me for a few reasons. This wasn't really at all the direction that the PAC and TAC were headed. This was out of the blue, and the closure was quick, two weeks' notice. That's much quicker than anything else that has happened or I expect to happen at Riverview.
 The closure of Riverview to bikes was in conflict with some or most of the TAC and PAC findings, along with the majority opinions from the public input process. It's bad practice to ask for input, receive the input, and then proceed to ignore that input. The decision to arbitrarily exclude bikes and the way it ignored key stakeholders significantly damaged the credibility of parks, the process, the city, and the resulting Riverview plan.
 After that decision, the PAC, we can reconvene and we finish our job. The plan put forth to the PAC for recommendation excluded bikes and limited other recreation access to the site in conflict with some of the goals communicated to the PAC and the TAC. I can't support the proposed plan as is because it excludes the possibility of bike access, even though the facts show that there's little to no conflict between bikes and the environmental goals.
 The proposed trail routing skirts the perimeter of the property for reduced user experience, even while failing to follow the guidelines for the buffer zone around the core habitat. Effectively, the proposed trail will degrade user enjoyment from that of the current unmanaged or beginning of the management trail system. The proposed plan also effectively reopens the property to illegal camping and partying in the interior core habitat.
 Over 80 acres, I think I just heard it was 87 acres, with no trails for maintenance, security, or access. In the past, camping and partying were both longstanding uses in the property. Without eyes on the park, high-impact uses will again become a big problem. And fourth, the opaque process used to ignore the stakeholder input was unacceptable and I hope not representative of how we do things in this city.
 In conclusion, there's a lot of dedicated people putting in a lot of good effort to make this plan, and much of the plan, most of the plan is good. But the results were spoiled by a few key decisions, and because of this, I can't endorse the plan. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, member of councils, thanks for letting me be here. My name is Tori Limbaugh. I live at 910 Southwest Maplecrest Drive in the Collinsview neighborhood.
 And I appreciated the opportunity to serve on the Riverview Natural Area PAC, along with my fellow members, as a representative of the Triune Creek Watershed Council. Like many PAC members, I've had a long history with the Riverview Natural Area, whether it's hiking or running before it was publicly owned, as well as watching the amazing ecological transformation that's happened during and after public ownership.
 When BES purchased this tract of land, I completely supported the allocation of resources to ensure that watershed protection for the ecosystem services was provided, primarily the contribution of cool, clear water from the numerous streams flowing to the Willamette River from this site. And I still believe that to be the only objective this management plan is required to address.
 As the president of the Triant Creek Watershed Council and a watershed scientist and resource manager for the City of Gresham, I feel that the plan you have before you considers the best available science to meet the original intent of the purchase of this property, to protect water quality and critical habitat for wildlife.
 The process was thorough. A wide range of uses and opinions were considered, I believe. In addition to wildlife and natural resources, the PAC was heavily influenced by adjacent neighbors and mountain bike advocates. While no single user group is going to feel that the current plan meets all of their desires, for example, neighbors might prefer not to have that additional parking along the street there, and there's also...
 call for a bathroom that I'm sure they're not crazy about. So not everybody got what they wanted. But the plan still represents a compromise for all of the groups that were represented. Despite being the most discussed and considered use in Riverview, the one disappointing aspect of the plan is that it did not explicitly answer the mountain bike question. That was kind of left as hanging out there. It was left to this broader discussion that's going to be punted to the off-road cycling master plan.
 I say disappointing only because the Oregon or the off-road cycling master plan process will not bring together the same group of concerned experts and citizens that are focused on accessing conservation on this specific place.
 I think that the unique constraints and opportunities that we have at the site are not going to be the same thing that that group is considering. Let's see here. The Riverview Natural Area PAC was a group convened to weigh all of the factors, be it soils, aquatic resources, existing and future forest habitat, etc., specific to this particular site, and recommend policies that would best serve this unique city investment program.
 As an environmental scientist and representative of an organization working to protect and enhance watershed resources, I would have supported a plan that restricted all human access to this natural area, but I also understand that citizens need opportunities to access nature, and I can appreciate the proposed trail alignment and design guidelines that are specified in the current plan, especially since these trail guidelines came directly from the International Mountain Bike Association.
 Regardless of whether or not mountain biking becomes an allowed use at this site as part of the off-road cycling master plan process, I believe that the current plan before you balances the need for human access with the need to keep undisturbed areas of natural area for wildlife intact. And the trail design guidelines included in the management plan are the best available practices for ensuring that water quality benefits for which this parcel was purchased will be adequately protected. Thank you.
 Thanks for your time. Thank you. Do we have a copy of your testimony? You don't, but I will give you. Can you give a copy to Carla and we'll just put it in the record? I will do that. Thank you very much. Thank you all for your service. Thank you very much. Do we have some others, Emily, that you want to call? Before we open it up to the public, I would like to ask Michelle Kunik-North, the project manager for the off-road cycling project, to just give a few. Yes, good.
 Good afternoon. My name is Michelle Kunick-North. I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I'm the project manager for the Off-Road Cycling Master Plan Project, the citywide process that council funded last year. I'm just here today to provide a little bit of context on that plan, since you're likely to receive testimony regarding off-road cycling or mountain biking today. Thank you.
 As I mentioned, City Council provided funding for the off-road cycling plan in order to create a comprehensive plan for the development and management of off-road cycling trails and facilities across the city. That is due in part to a recognition on the part of the city of the existing and growing need for off-road cycling opportunities in the city, a recognition that was in part due to the public conversation that occurred in the Riverview Natural Area Management Plan process.
 In terms of the off-road cycling plan, it really has two primary purposes. One is to establish a foundation of understanding about the needs, impacts, best practices for off-road cycling, and also to establish a way that we think about whether off-road cycling is an appropriate use on various public lands.
 Secondly, it will make recommendations for a system of off-road cycling trails and facilities for riders of various ages and abilities that's based on community needs and input, site objectives, constraints, and opportunities, and best practices in design, development, and management. So in terms of the relationship of that citywide plan to the Riverview Management Plan that's in front of you today...
 As Emily mentioned, the Riverview Natural Area Management Plan currently includes a prohibition on the use of the natural area and the trails for off-road cycling on an interim basis pending the development of the off-road cycling plan. It does clearly state the use of mountain bikes will remain a prohibited use until completion of the city's off-road cycling master plan, through which the Riverview natural area will be considered as a candidate property for off-road cycling. Thank you.
 so within the context of this larger city-wide effort we are planning to consider whether off-road cycling is an appropriate use in at riverview if that recommendation is made we would bring that to council with that plan later in 2016. should the off-road cycling plan recommend off-road cycling as an allowed use at riverview and council then adopt that
 That decision would supersede the current prohibition in the Riverview management plan. So if there was a later decision as part of the citywide process, that decision would supersede any decision that is made today if they were contradictory.
 In addition, the off-road cycling plan may develop additional design principles, best practices, or management strategies that are specific to the operation of shared-use trails, particularly those where people on bikes and people on foot are sharing the same trail space, which could be used in the thinking about the design and construction steps that Emily mentioned would be coming down the road.
 So if there were additional users allowed in the future, we may have some more kind of best practice information to inform that later design. So that's what I have for you today. Mostly just an assurance that we are ready to pick up that question and bring a recommendation to you later this year.
 I just have a question just to make sure I understand the protocol. So when you say that the council action on any recommendation from the committee that you're leading would supersede, that's consistent with our normal practice? Correct. That future council can modify a plan or whatever and, in effect, supersedes or modifies. So I understand that piece. Yes.
 I guess the assurance I'm looking for is that the Riverview Natural Area Management Plan will have a dynamic role in your committee's work in terms of evaluating that question. Sure. So we would be looking to – there's extensive technical analysis and other work that's been done as part of the Riverview Management Plan –
 that we would want to kind of step forward from in the off-road cycling plan. And in addition, Tori was just up here. Tori is also a member of our project advisory committee, so trying to keep that link in terms of understanding and process. And then finally, we – I should have mentioned this earlier. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is kind of leading and coordinating this overall process, but we are working very closely with
 the bureau of environmental services and portland parks and recreation and a number of other city agencies particularly when we get into site-specific details so go ahead oh mayor i just wanted to thank you for funding the off-road cycling and for the bureau planning taking on the project it's clearly needed and something that parks had desired for quite some time so i'm glad that we're looking at holistically secondly i understand commissioner novick has an amendment to clarify what was just said yeah
 And before we get to that, let me just ask Michelle to sort of put this on the record. So you've reviewed this Parks Bureau document, Parks and BES document. You're doing this work for planning. We've heard this description of both the failure to get to unanimity about the bicycling issue and we've heard a description about how the trail plan was configured.
 So going into your work, this is sort of a leading question, but I want to make sure we get this clear. Going into your work, is it fair to say that you read this document as saying, this is where the trails should go for purposes of natural area protection and safety?
 that you're not operating under a presumption that this trail alignment is fundamentally unsuited to bicycles.
 So we have scoped or are thinking about the question at Riverview as, first, a question of whether people on bikes should be allowed on the trail that is proposed in the trail and access concept. And then, secondly, whether there are any specific designations.
 design or management strategies that at the ground level might influence the design of that trail. So it might be things like passing areas so that people have enough room to get by, changes to the slopes so that there's enough space for somebody to come to us, you know, to slow down if they're riding a bike, but not to the overall terrain.
 alignment of the trail itself. The location of the trails and the fact that there aren't trails in the heart of the natural area, that basic architecture of the trail plan stands, right, and you're not intending to change that.
 That's how we've scoped the project currently, correct? Good. Thank you. So, Commissioner Novick, you have a proposed amendment, which we should get on the table before we take testimony? Exactly. That does reflect what Michelle just said. I would simply add to the be it resolved in the resolution, be it further resolved that City Council will make a final decision about whether mountain biking will be an allowed use in Riverview,
 after the off-road cycling master plan process is complete. Second. Okay. Okay. Any discussion about that? Let's take a vote to accept the amendment, and then we'll take testimony. Okay.
 Thank you for working with us on the clarification, Commissioner Novick and Mayor Hales, and also Michelle and the staff for their very clear presentation on this issue. I think this is a good amendment that makes clear what some may say is implied, but through the discussion we've just had in this amendment, I think it makes crystal clear our intention.
 Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Novick, thank you for hammering out this amendment, and I am proud to support it. Aye. Novick? Thank you, colleagues. Aye. Nails? Aye. Okay. That's accepted, and we'll take testimony on the plan overall as well as the amendment as people come up.
 So how many people do you have signed up, Carla? I have 25. Let's proceed. We'll allow three minutes, but obviously you don't need to repeat your fellow citizens' point. If they've already made it for you, say, me too. So please, let's proceed. The first three police coming up are Dave Johnston, Dixie Johnston, and Mike Houck, and they will be followed by Jill Gaddis, Daniel Greenstadt, and Susan Eggnor. Good afternoon.
 Dave and Dixie get to be first. Thank you, Mayor. Just because Mike helped me out overnight to get to the first slide doesn't mean I go first.
 That's right. Go ahead, please. Well, thank you, Mayor and Councilors. And I'm Dave Johnston. I live across the street from the natural area on Palatine Hill Road, have for some 20 years, and am active in the Collinsview Neighborhood Association. I followed this property as a chair of the association and land use chair for some 20 years or so.
 through many proposed land use developments, none of which would have done very well maintaining the site and its natural resources. So we were very happy when the city obtained this as a natural area and support what Commissioner Fish said for the history of that and going forward.
 You should have before us the letter of January 11th, which sets forth much of what we wanted to say, and having listened to everybody, it's probably not necessary to repeat it all verbally, but to leave you with the letter. We were very happy to see the easement which the city gave to Metro to commemorate the conditions for which that land was purchased.
 And we note that that embodies the purposes of that land so well and as such a binding part of the title that it really should be mentioned in the management plan itself, which suggests the purpose paragraph, and also that it be appended as a numbered appendix. We see that the copy we have now has a...
 copy of it just attached but not really included in the table of contents. So we'd suggest that because it's such an important part of what that land is about. We had a few other suggestions there to complete the management plan and some of the appendix, such as the notes for some of the additional PAC meetings that don't seem to be included.
 So with that, we'd say it's wonderful to see that as part of our public domain and preserved naturally, and we'd encourage following that. And yes, I would support Commissioner Novick's and the bicycling plan, not that I think
 bicycling as it has been proposed is necessarily appropriate in the Riverview natural area, but I'd certainly concede that it could be if done in accordance with the plan as presented by the park staff. So thank you. And I'll yield to the next testimony. Thank you. Mayor Hales, commissioners, Dixie Johnston here. I want to add to Dave's comments. These are my own personal comments and,
 Dan and I have not only been active in the Neighborhood Association, but we have also been very active at Tryon Creek State Natural Area. Each of us has put in well over 1,000 volunteer hours at the natural area. We have taken and taught science classes there and still learning more with great joy. I want to let you know that we really think it's important to uphold
 the conservation easement with the attendant CCNRs, which...
 come with a land, and they are binding. And this should be the foundation for the management plan. They have not been discussed thoroughly in all the PAC meetings that we have attended or in the open houses, and yet it is so important that we pay attention. This is the law, and we would love to see more...
 understanding of where the law applies in this particular place. I also want to commend Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Fish for their March 2nd letter. I think you captured the issues with the Riverview Natural Area and the operative words that begin with the words that we are exercising an abundance of caution and to protect.
 the city's investment in RV&A. I think that's important. Think of the conservation easement and the CC&Rs. The management plan is highly aspirational. It is very expensive, and it is amenable towards a higher and faster-paced usage, argumentatively in violation, perhaps, of the conservation easement.
 There's going to be expensive land use reviews. The maintenance costs are going to be very high. If we follow through with this, I'm suggesting a very slow, gradual implementation of this plan. Think it through very, very carefully. I'm very concerned about the high expense. I'm not sure this is what the voters were expecting with the purchase of this land. Thank you.
 I do see this land as being a continuation of the environmental, scientific, and educational, and the legal processes that have begun on these land. I would like to see it continue. We have...
 Lewis and Clark College has done a great job. So has Crayon Creek State Natural Area. The collaborative effort with the different city bureaus has been fantastic, and I would like to see this continued. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Ms. Johnston, I'd just like to say it's refreshing to have an advocate urging us to go slowly on purchasing the implementation. There's many neighborhoods who have been waiting for decades because Parks doesn't have enough money. So it's good to know that you're not expecting us to implement it tomorrow.
 Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Hales, commissioners, my name is Mike Alk. I'm here representing the Urban Green Spaces Institute and urging you to immediately adopt the Riverview Natural Area Management Plan. Frankly, I was initially opposed to any public access to the site owing to its importance as a natural resource.
 However, after reading the plan, I've come to the conclusion that the plan, as laid out in the text and the trail alignments, adequately address my concerns regarding public access and protecting the ecological integrity of the site. And I'll just take a moment to repeat what I have in the past. You should be so proud of your staff.
 in parks, and BES, there is no equal to the ecological knowledge and expertise that's represented on your staffs, and they've done a fabulous job in this document. The plan explicitly states that mountain biking is prohibited only until citywide off-road cycling master plan is completed. It does not preclude future consideration of mountain biking, as you just stated, and
 There is no rationale for delaying adoption until the off-road cycling master plan is completed, as some may argue. While there may be a need for trail redesign, refinement, should cycling become a use, the network as laid out in the plan is sufficient to meet all future uses while protecting natural resources. Regardless of future recreational uses, including cycling, the trails should not be expanded beyond what is in this plan.
 I am a member, I was appointed to the Off-Road Cycling Master Plan Advisory Committee, and as far as I'm concerned, mountain biking will be on the table with regard to Riverview Natural Area.
 But I would urge you to adopt this plan because the reality is there is no way that I'm willing to consider mountain biking, or any other use for that matter, without a master plan in place. So it's totally illogical for anybody who would argue, don't adopt this now, let's do the off-road cycling plan, without having the master plan in place to guide the conversation during the off-road cycling plan process.
 There's nothing in here that precludes our considering mountain biking later, as you've indicated. So it's totally illogical not to adopt the plan today in that regard. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, let's take the next, please. Our Jill Gaddis, Daniel Greenstadt, and Susan Eggnor, and they'll be followed by Mary Ann Fitzgerald, Jim Diamond, and Denny Barnes.
 good afternoon welcome good afternoon my name is susan eggnor i'm here to testify in support of the riverview natural area plan that is before the council today we live in an increasingly urban paved built environment once our hillsides were covered with magnificent forests of towering trees with the coming of settlers from the american east and missed west
 These hillsides were stripped bare of their protective forests. In a few rare places, the trees have come back to these hillsides because the hills were too steep for commercial development or for other reasons. Those of us who live in neighborhoods where some of the hills have been reforested, even though it's only been 100 years, are fortunate to have such natural areas close by.
 I live next to Terligar Parkway. Markham Nature Park is in my neighborhood. I have spent innumerable hours enjoying them and working in them. We benefit enormously from these second-growth trees and the wildlife and streams they support. The management plan shows that the Riverview Natural Areas, Trees, Wildlife, Streams, and Views
 Preserved and neglected by the previous owner over the last hundred years or so, provide unique opportunities for this city to develop and preserve a natural area very close to downtown. An opportunity to provide cooling refuge to the fish challenged by Willamette River, which, thanks to human activity, can be too warm for them.
 An opportunity to make a place more accessible to those for whom access can be a bar to enjoying our natural areas. An opportunity to allow the wildlife to move about in safety. An opportunity for our children and grandchildren to learn about the natural world and to treasure this place. Preparing such a management plan is a wide-ranging and comprehensive process, often challenging.
 I am grateful to those from the community, from the Bureau of Parks and Recreation and the Bureau of Environmental Services, who spent hours gathering information, drafting, consulting, arguing, debating, and developing this plan. Such work is so often anonymous and vexing, and in this case, particularly challenging.
 Our city may not have the funds to do all that is called for in the management plan for many years to come.
 A great start has been made by Portland Park staffers and volunteers in beating back the choking invasive vines, replanting with a phenomenal number of natures, native plants, and working to make the streams healthier for those that live in them and more stable in the face of sometimes challenging weather and other constraints. I urge the council to adopt this plan as it has been presented. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Jill Gaddis, and thank you for this opportunity to present my views on this important issue. I am the chair of Friends of April Hill Park, and for the past eight years I have represented Maplewood Neighborhood Association at the Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc. Parks and Recreation Committee. I'm also active member of the former, excuse me, active member and former chair of the Maplewood Neighborhood Association.
 I'd like to express my support for the conservation easement, which clearly specifies the goals which BES and PPNR, as holders of the conservation easement, agree to and are legally bound for the management of Riverview Natural Area. Specifically, Exhibit C of the grantors prohibit uses and activities, which is Item 4 on the conservation easement. I'm not going to read that section unless you want me to.
 When representatives of PPNR's City Nature West took the Sweeney Parks and Recreation Committee on a tour of Riverview Natural Area, we saw firsthand the damage done by off-road bicyclists. We saw recreational trails built by bicyclists and fragrant trespasses on public lands. These involved removing vegetation, disturbing soils, and natural conditions.
 and the natural contours causing serious damage in the form of erosion, degradation of habitat. The trails were clearly causing soil erosion and habitat destruction. These activities are clearly contrary to the goals of the conservation easement that PPNR is committed to. We submit that the recreational use of bicycles in the Riverview Natural Area, as in all natural areas...
 is destructive and contrary to the goals of the natural area conservation and the protection of ecological functions that are projected in the conservation and easement.
 We urge you to insist that the goals of the conservation easement be honored and strictly carried out. Thank you. Ms. Gaddis, can I just clarify something? Yes. Because both you and Ms. Johnson referred to the conservation easement and the exhibits. The conservation easement that was struck with Metro and BES and parks. And Ms. Johnson mentioned it as well, and I just want to assure you,
 that in the management plan itself as Appendix E, the conservation easement is an exhibit to the document with the attachments that you refer to. So Ms. Johnson has referenced that. If you're looking, oh. It is part of the bound volume. I don't remember the page number. And it is listed under Appendix E.
 So it's part of a self-contained document. Right. It's in your management plan. Yes. As an appendix. Right. Right. Okay. Thank you for that clarification. Welcome. Hi, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you. My name is Daniel Greenstatt.
 I'm on the board, former chair of the Concordia Neighborhood Association, and for about 30 years I've been involved in one capacity or another in conservation and non-motorized recreational trails planning and implementation in a variety of settings. I don't have any prepared statement today, but I do want to react to a few things I've heard in the room today.
 We've heard a lot of praise for the RVNA project and process, and I think that's well-deserved. This is a great project. I think everybody can be very proud of what's happening and where we're headed.
 And we've heard a lot about the commitment and how productive the process has been. And that's very true, I think, with one glaring exception, and that has revolved around trails planning. At just about the time that it was being determined through the public process that bicycles were not a problem at Riverview, that was the time.
 Public process was jettisoned. It was halted suddenly bicycles were excluded as a result Bicycles have not been considered in this trails plan we've heard that we're very close to hopefully the Completion of the off-road cycling master plan that's supposed to happen in 2016 and
 Because cycling wasn't a consideration in the planning of the trails that are now in the RVNA master plan, that seems to be an obvious defect in the plan. We're so close to a conclusion, although it's just getting started, but the schedule is pretty ambitious. We're so close to a conclusion in the off-road cycling master plan that I can't see any sense in cementing
 The trails element of the RVNA master plan, now, when we're going to have so much more information in a relatively short amount of time, I could support the adoption of this master plan with the exception of the trails element. What's going to happen is that...
 If, in fact, the off-road cycling master plan process determines that bicycles are an appropriate use to some degree on the property, we may be already saddled with a trails plan or system that simply doesn't allow it to be implemented. That doesn't make any sense. We have a relatively short amount of time to wait.
 We should wait for the Off-Road Cycling Master Plan to complete before implementing any kind of trails. There are a lot of other things to be doing at RVNA. We're not out of tasks there. We don't have to implement the trails element now. Thank you very much. So I'm still grappling with the division over this issue. So...
 Do you think there might be a possibility that the off-road cycling master plan would recommend a different architecture of where the trails would be? Well, it's conceivable. But even if that were very minor, I mean, if you look at the maps, you see a line drawn on the map. It could very well be that had that process included the consideration of bicycles, which it did not.
 that one of those lines might be a little to the left, a little to the right. The trail might split around a rock, and it would deviate from the plan that you're considering adopting today. That would be an impossible accommodation if the trail plan that's in front of you today is adopted as it is. The alternative is very simple. Just hold off on the trails element, just an amendment that would simply say,
 The trail's
 element of this plan is on hold until a conclusion of a process that's going to conclude relatively soon. What's to be lost in that process? Were you here when we heard from the project manager for the off-road cycling master plan? Were you here for her testimony? Yes, yes, yes. And I don't remember every single word, although she's very articulate, but I seem to recall that she very clearly said that there might be modifications and recommendations coming out of that process. Yes.
 that would tweak, in effect, the recommendation in this plan, division of the trail, safety measures, turnoffs, other kinds of things. So I thought she did a reasonable job carving out some space where reasonable, thoughtful people could make modifications. Did you not hear it the same way? I did hear that. And I think –
 I think we can all imagine that if the result of the off-road cycling master planning process resulted in a recommendation that that blue line, you know, how thick is that blue line? If the recommendation was that that blue line needs to go a little bit over to this side.
 That's not going to be possible, or at least it will be argued very vociferously that we cannot move that line because it was adopted by city council. I don't know if that line needs to be moved, but we'll be absolutely shackled to that blue line, which is – there's only so much precision included in the plan –
 And it's going to be an impediment to ultimately achieving the optimal trail system, if we all determine that it should be a shared-use trail or some part of it should be a shared-use trail. I think this is a very helpful clarification, and I'd like to bring Emily Roth, the planner, back up just to clarify what that blue line means, because that might make things easier for the rest of the hearing. Thank you for bringing it up.
 Like in every other master plan that we do for the city of Portland and create a trail line, it is conceptual. When we get out and do construction and design, that trail may move five feet one direction. It may move ten feet another direction. It is a corridor right now of which we envision that the trail will go.
 So I don't want anybody to be wedded that this blue line means that there is not room to move 10, 5 feet. It will not move 50 feet or it will not move 100 feet. But it certainly gives the guidance for Portland Parks and Rec for when we do design of where the trail should go.
 But as in any master plan, when we get out there and build and we see what all the complications are and there's something maybe that we didn't take into account, we will be on the ground. We will do the survey. We will do the staking work. We will take what the recommendations come from the off-road cycling committee to ensure that we build and construct everything.
 a trail that is safe, logical, and works. So I don't want people to be wedded that this line is only exactly where it is shown on the map. It is conceptual within this travel corridor. Okay. Thank you. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. I appreciate the discussion. Okay. Let's take the next three people, please. Our Mary Ann Fitzgerald, Jim Diamond, and Denny Barnes, and they'll be followed by Duncan Parks,
 Eric Tonkin and Tristan Jones.
 I should go. Good afternoon. My name is Marianne Fitzgerald, and I submitted testimony electronically, but I handed Carla copies for your convenience today. I'm here to express my support for the draft 2015 management plan for the Riverview Natural Area and urge you to affirm its acceptance today and allow that plan to guide the city's efforts to protect the habitat and ecosystem health of this fragile landscape. Thank you.
 I worked for over 30 years as a natural resources specialist, and I understand the complexities and the challenges of implementing strategies intended to protect and improve environmental quality. Similar controversy has surrounded proposals to close logging roads that the U.S. Forest Service can't afford to maintain. The Riverview property was purchased with the intent of complying with the terms of the conservation easement, and I'm glad that you pointed out where that was because I wasn't prepared to provide copies of it.
 But I do want to draw your attention to language in the executive summary of the plan that, in my view, really describes how the plan before you today complies with that conservation easement.
 The primary management objectives for the trail system are protecting natural resources, water quality, and creating a safe place for visitors. Management recommendations include a no-dogs policy and seasonal trail closures to maintain water quality and protect wildlife during sensitive periods of their cycle.
 Safe and sustainable access to Riverview Natural Area will provide nature-based recreational opportunities and will help support stewardship, community connections, and environmental education opportunities. So the natural resource protections for the Riverview Natural Area has been my major concern about this plan all along. I think that it's well covered in the plan, and I urge you to support these priorities and accept the plan today. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Denny Barnes. I'm a chairman of the Collinsview Neighborhood Association Tree Committee and a fifth generation Oregonian, Portland, born and raised. And I just returned to Portland with my family a couple years ago after living in China for 25 years, so nobody appreciates how amazing our urban wilderness is than me. Okay.
 I just live a few blocks from the Riverview Natural Area. I, too, strongly support the Riverview Natural Area Management Plan and urge you to adopt it immediately. Sadly, my family's personal experience has been quite different from your vision. I think, I hope you've all hiked in Riverview. The existing trails are,
 are rogue mountain bike trails that were built illegally when the property was owned and managed by the Riverview Cemetery. These trails are built deliberately for jumps and bumps and steep declines and high-speed turns. The dirt surfaces are deeply rutted, and they channel muddy stormwater
 I won't read my whole testimony for time interest. Now, some illegal mountain bikers there are actually quite polite, but a few of them are dangerously insensitive, based on my family's experience. Meeting them on narrow trails can be what I guess we call single-track trails, can be quite unpleasant. For example...
 My family is standing on a trail, quietly observing a magnificent pileated woodpecker. Suddenly, a bike comes charging down the trail, forces us off the trail, and the object of our joy flies away in terror. Wildlife observation is pretty hard in the presence of mountain bikers.
 I had one occasion where a bike rounding the turn forced my son off the trail, nearly hitting him. My wife, like an angry mother bear, charged after him. He fled in terror. And my wife shouted at me, never bring my son here again. And sadly, I haven't.
 Other stories are certainly available from other neighbors. Some of them published in our neighborhood website, Net Next Door. There are many. I won't list them all. Some single women have asked me to accompany them hiking there because they feel afraid.
 One avid naturalist always hikes there with a large dog because of security concerns. Of course, large dogs are being banned even as an unauthorized mountain bike continues unabated. I see I'm at the end of my time, so let me just emphasize the conservation easement. Let me read from the text. Permitted uses shall therefore include...
 public access for nature-based recreation, and it's specific, such as hiking, nature watching, environmental education, and research, period. All right. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks. Okay. Welcome. Mayor Hales, commissioners, my name is Jim Diamond.
 I live on Southwest 2nd in Collinsview. I'm the chair of the Collinsview Neighborhood Association. In my other life, I'm a professor of chemistry at Linfield College, where I teach my students about global warming and climate change.
 And with that hat on, I'd like to just say, I think personally that this kind of refuge will become increasingly valuable as we see the inevitable consequences of climate change. Now, I'd like to continue with my statement from the Neighborhood Association. You have received written copies of this, and I think you've probably got them somewhere electronically as well as in print.
 The Collinsview Neighborhood Association has supported the process through which the City of Portland Parks and Recreation has developed a management plan for Riverview Natural Area that's consistent with Metro's conservation easement. I apologize, you're going to hear this term many times, I think. And the goals and principles stated in the proposed plan for RVNA. It is our opinion that the language in this easement is extremely important in assessing any management plan for Riverview Natural Area.
 We in Collinsview thank the City of Portland for acquiring this natural area and its plan to rescue and preserve it. The plan is consistent with Council-approved policies and strategy related to the protection of the Westside Wildlife Corridor, environmental protections, conservation efforts, and climate change. Collinsview Neighborhood Association strongly supports sustainable uses of RVNA that are consistent with the values stated in the conservation easements.
 It's our view that this proposed management plan for our V&A is sensible, consistent with those values, provided that the activities that are permitted are also consistent with the conservation easement. And this plan will well serve the needs of the community. We applaud Parks and Recreation for their efforts on the proposed management plan. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Let's take the next three folks, please. Our Duncan Parkes.
 Eric Tonkin and Tristan Jones, and they'll be followed by Kerry Miller, Nathan Ramsey, and Tom Fahey. Good afternoon. My name is Duncan Parks. I'm a biologist from southeast Portland, and I think I share with everyone here enthusiasm for the city's acquisition of the property and for the management of it as a high-value natural resource. I think we're all together on that.
 What I can agree with, though, is the characterization of the process in developing this plan as in any way open or comprehensive or collaborative. I was at some of the early meetings, the public advisory meetings. Lots of enthusiasm, lots of input that essentially disappeared and then, of
 of course, in March 2nd of last year, the city unilaterally prohibited mountain biking, despite the fact that that use did not appear in any way in the Technical Advisory Committee's list of actual threats to the habitat and conservation value of the property. The Technical Advisory Committee got it right, and I was very heartened to see their report, because it ignores things like, for instance, the testimony today that attempts to use the erosional impact of unofficial trails and the behavior of cyclists on unofficial trails
 as some way of gauging what would happen on officially constructed trails. Again, there's no evidence. The city has never presented any actual rationale for banning mountain bikes. And the discussion was prohibited, literally, at the first public advisory committee meeting after the ban on mountain bikes. Not only was there not a justification or an explanation for the ban, the topic was literally not permitted to be discussed.
 So, it's hard to see this as in any way some sort of open or public process. Again, I think I share a lot of values and goals with most of the people in this room.
 I also really enjoyed taking my daughters out mountain biking. I had the immense pleasure of watching them challenge themselves in a human-powered activity out at Stubb Stewart State Park on a trail that I actually had a small part in constructing. That was wonderful. But places like Stubb Stewart are an hour away. You know, you have to get in your car and drive for an hour. A place like Riverview is a place we could considerably ride to and enjoy, and enjoy sensibly constructed, durable trails,
 hopefully built by people like the mountain bike community that are really expert at building durable trails that don't erode. We've got lots of local examples.
 So, I guess my point is that not only if you accept this plan do you continue to deny, say, my chance to take my daughters more often mountain biking in a place that's close to home that doesn't require a long drive, but you really tell them that, you know, that public process where every factor is actually evaluated according to science and according to evidence just doesn't really matter that much. If we don't like a use, we'll just pull it out and not discuss it.
 And that's really the way the process has been in terms of the way mountain bikes have been handled in the Riverview Natural Area Plan. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Folks, just give them a thumbs up, please. I know we are going to have agreement and disagreement, so show it nonverbally, please, or without applause. Welcome. Thank you.
 Well, Mr. Parks just took all the cool things I was going to say, so I'll have to talk about something else here. My name is Eric Tonkin. I'm the owner of Selwood Cycle Repair, and I attended Lewis and Clark College from 93 to 96. You know, Mr. Hawk said something very important. You should be, as a council, representatives of our city, managers of our staff, and I should add –
 elected officials who inspire the public to do good in the world. It's an important part of your job. You're right, you have, or Mike is right, you have succeeded, you have protected this piece of property. That has, I think, been done. I was really excited when my friend Emily Roth told me many years ago that the city was trying to buy it, failed, and was looking for another opportunity and then succeeded.
 What Mr. Hawk left out is that there is another part of this. It's the public. Those of us who are on the other side of looking at you in the face, we also spend our money and spend our time in these areas. We do a lot of work, and we're possessive of it, and we use it, and we love it. It's a sense of place. Yeah.
 Interestingly, on the last slide on Emily's presentation where it said thank you to everybody, I thought it was very telling because the photo in the background is of the very first work party that happened in Riverview after it was purchased. It was a work party that was co-sponsored by one entity, yours truly, my bike shop, and it was staffed by my staff and my partner, Rhonda, who's in the forefront of that photograph. Now, all we did was...
 Invasives removal there. It was in the winter. There was no mention of bikes. There didn't need to be. It was the right thing to do to care for that space. I think that as a user group, cyclists, walkers, dog walkers, we can all be trusted stewards of our places that provide recreation and not recreation, just recreation.
 appreciating it for what it is I think that adopting this plan as it sits right now unfortunately locks into place a trail plan we just heard Emily say it could move five feet this way 10 feet that way not 50 feet not 100 feet I don't think we should be locked into that right now I think that
 We've protected the property. I think we can wait the short period of time to consider it more fully for trails and for the use of the people. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. My name is Tristan Jones. I'm an outdoor enthusiast and also really enjoy hiking, biking, and all kinds of forms of recreation and river view natural area.
 I think one commonality you're going to hear from a lot of the cyclists in this room is they don't feel like this public process worked very well from their perspective. And now we're going to accept a plan and put our faith that further public process is going to allow us a chance at access to Riverview Natural Area. And I think that...
 That's where you're going to see a disconnect between cyclists and other users because I feel as a mountain biker, if the city of Portland has any sincerity in considering bicycles in the Riverview natural area in the future, then we should not move forward with this plan. To approve this plan is to approve a plan that was developed with a broken public process that will leave a legacy of distrust.
 for bicycle access to genuinely be considered in the future of riverview natural area then the committee the committee should be allowed to talk about the topic throughout the planning process this was not the case the subjects of bicycle access was systematically excluded from the planning process why we all have our theories of why that happened but the why doesn't even matter the fact is
 The plan matured without input from a large amount of public stakeholders. There's a very important concern about allowing public access into Riverview Natural Area, regardless of how people plan to enjoy that land, but to exclude and silence one specific group who has been eager since the purchase of the land to be part of the planning process is unethical. Moving forward with this plan would be unethical.
 We have an opportunity to do this right using progressive and modern land management techniques, planning, and public input. Mountain biking is rapidly growing in popularity, and trail access to bicycles is shrinking both in the urban and rural setting, due in part to a vocal and powerful minority. Thank you.
 Cities around the world, from New Zealand to Minnesota, are making positive steps to address this. Communities get involved. Tourists come and help the local economy. People of all ages engage in healthy activity in nature. And folks that don't have the means to drive an hour to experience the joy of riding a bike on dirt have that opportunity. So...
 It might not be everybody's idea of good land use, but it is for a whole lot of people. And that's what the public process is for. If the city plans to address the shortness or the city plan...
 plans to address the shortage of mountain bike trails within the city with the Off-Road Cycling Master Plan. Let's do Riverview planning right. Let's allow the Off-Road Master Plan to do what it was intended to do. Let's create a plan using complete transparency and uncompromised public process. I urge you guys not to pass this plan as presented. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Next three are Kerry Miller, Nathan Ramsey, and Tom Fahey.
 and they'll be followed by Bob Sollinger, Alexander Clark, and Eli Ahern. Good afternoon. Who would like to go first? I'll go first. My name is Nate Ramsey. I have a few thoughts. Mountain biking is good for Portland. It keeps people healthy. It gets people outdoors, and it develops respect for natural areas. Portland is full of mountain bikers. It's a sport that's accessible to virtually anyone.
 As I understand it, the issue here is not about environmentalism. Mountain biking is compatible with conservation, and it builds support for future conservation. Allowing mountain bikers into Portland parks is the right thing to do. Delaying adoption of this plan will support that. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Kerry Miller. And I was also at that first RIC party that Eric Tonkin mentioned. And I thought it was great. And I would like to say that I do not support this plan and that I would be in support of any plan that would still involve the use of mountain biking. And I've been going there.
 probably twice a week for the last 20 years, and every experience I have had with any other user has been nothing but positive.
 Yeah, that's all I want to say. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you for your time. My name is Tom Fahey. I live in Lake Oswego. I spent six years on the Transportation Advisory Board and another three years working on the city's comprehensive plan. And so one of the things that we always had to work with was the process and having integrity in the process and having people believe that the process was going forward.
 with everybody's input involved. I think what you'll find is that there's a natural amount of cynicism and skepticism in the process if you read some of the forms. And I think that result is part of some of the exclusionary factors that have happened during the process. I think everybody wants to see a transparent process, wants to see it go forward.
 I believe in protecting the natural environment. And as a result of the completion of the off-road plan, that if it dictates that this is not appropriate use in that area, then I would gladly support it.
 But I highly suggest that we wait until that process is vetted and that it is completed so that we can take a look back. I have, for a long time, tried to convince my children to also get involved and to participate. I believe it's every citizen's responsibility to vote, to speak their voice, so they don't allow the same number of voices speak for them. And the questions that they've asked me is, why do some of these things happen? And it's sometimes difficult to explain to them, and there's
 levels of politics that go on, but I still want to try and inspire them to get involved in whatever the process is that's out there. It's really important. It's a sensitive topic. There's a lot of people that are very emotional about this topic. So we start to hear terms that kind of borderline biking as being evil, that there's these evil characters that are looking to run you over on these trails.
 My experience has been really quite frankly that the most patient group as a total has been the mountain bikers. I've rarely run into situations where I've heard some of these, I've almost been run over. These are inflammatory things that people know that they can state this and it's going to get an emotional response. I would ask that we move past some of those emotional responses on both sides and really put our time into this process. Yeah.
 And I hope it works out well. But I do hope that, so my final suggestion is, hold off until the process is done. We're not that far away. What are we really going to lose if we hold off? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Next three are Bob Sollinger, Alexander Clark, and Eli Ahern. And they'll be followed by Josh Easton, Andrew Jansky, and Warren Johnson. First. Okay.
 Good afternoon. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm the Conservation Director for the Audubon Society of Portland, and we are here to testify in support of adopting the plan. We think it's important that it moves forward. We think it does a few things very well that should be a template for any natural area. You know, we need to start out, when we buy a natural area to protect natural resources and for access to nature, we need to make sure those natural resources are actually preserved and protected, both for the people to enjoy them and for their own intrinsic value.
 And I think too often we load a lot of uses into these natural areas and then try to go back and figure out how to protect the resources after the fact. Parks and BES did this one right. They looked at the critical natural resource values, things like stream corridors, interior habitat. It doesn't really occur at this site, but other sites, meadows, these really incredibly important, fragile resources here.
 and designed a trail system and recreation around those things to make sure that those things were first and foremost protected, and then the recreational opportunities were compatible with those. We think they got it right. We think the trail system is appropriate, whether it's for bikes, for peds, for dog walkers, for horseback riders, whatever. We think the alignment is the correct alignment to protect those natural resources and preserve them.
 We do think it's unfortunate that we did not get to the biking issue because Audubon believes that biking probably can occur here and would be an appropriate use here. With this alignment, not adding trails, not moving them into the interior or crossing streamcars, but we believe that biking probably has a place here. That being said, we believe you should move forward today. This podcast...
 parcel was bought for its natural resource value. You've been challenged by critics who said that you weren't really sincere about that. A lot of folks have stepped up and protected this site and defended the reason why the city bought it and said the city really truly did buy it for the natural resource values. This is an opportunity to demonstrate that, adopt the plan, allow things to move forward, restoration,
 begin to implement the trails and so on, let the mountain biking task force come back and determine whether mountain biking can go here. I am on that task force. And as I said, Audubon senses that mountain biking can exist here in the network that they have determined here.
 One final thing that I would mention is, as I hope you do take a look at the mountain biking task force, it is overwhelmingly people who are associated with mountain biking. And one of the things that we heard was there was going to be a more holistic task force. There were going to be people on there with a lot of different interests so that mountain biking could be integrated into the bigger system. And we were surprised to see it so heavily dominated by mountain bikers and other interests separate from that not so well represented, particularly concerned to see –
 a mountain biking advocacy group on the technical advisory committee as sort of a nonpartisan, factual-based advisor. We don't typically put advocacy groups on the technical advisory groups. We put them on the task force itself where they can advocate. So thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Whoever would like to go next, go ahead, please. I'm Alexandra Clark. My family came to Oregon between the years of 1850 and 1869.
 And so we have a long 165-year history in Oregon and the Tri-County area. We have made both small and meaningful contributions to the community. I am here in support of the conservation easement and the BES values for RVNA. I live in the Collinsview neighborhood, and I've lived there for nearly 30 years. I'm an avid gardener, and I do gardening.
 care about nature and the outdoors, and I'm also a sports enthusiast, or was when I was younger. I was quite active. So I had some specific questions. You have a 5% budget cut for next year in Parks and Rec? Not yet. Not yet, but you're discussing it. And one of those, a couple of those...
 You've cut some after school and summer programs for our youth and swimming programs, which I think are
 important now you're cutting proposing just gonna interrupt you because that's the meeting tonight we have a budget advisory committee for parks tonight and that would be the appropriate place you're welcome to come it's at five o'clock in there right oh no but that's why I'm just bringing I'm just leading into something I'm sorry I am just my point was and we have an issue with the homeless and yet there was three hundred thousand dollars available for this bike study so I'm kind of curious about that and
 And then I wanted to know also what portion of the trail budget is reserved to make the improvements that are going to need to be made for mountain bikes. You're right.
 We don't have any money for any of the improvements. Okay. Okay, and that is all I have to say. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And I appreciate your comments about the park budget. You certainly are welcome to come to the budget. I went the other night. That's why I have this. You've done your civic duty today. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Eli Ahern. I'm a local Hillsdale community member and volunteer in the maintenance of trails and native re-vegetation at Riverview Natural Area.
 I wanted to ask for a raise of hands for those in support of mountain bike-specific trails within the Riverview Natural Area. In attendance, the public's interest should not be dismissed from the current master planning process unless tested scientific evidence proves that modern off-road cycling inhibits achieving the goals of conservation and wildlife preservation at this site.
 Without such evidence, it is clear that the proposed management plan is incomplete without including mountain bike-specific trails or by providing substantial evidence that mountain bike-specific trails inhibit the primary goals proposed at the site. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. The next three are Josh Easton, Andrew Jansky, and Warren Johnson. And then the last two who signed up will be Charlie Sponsel and Kathleen Walker. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Warren Johnson. Honestly, I didn't hear about this until last night, so I don't know much about the proposal. But I have sat through most of the discussion, and I think my bias would be that everybody wants to use this property. It's very clear. What I didn't hear today is reasons why mountain bikes should be excluded. Okay.
 Are they, is it believed that they're going to cause damage to the property, to the goals of the property? I do think that's something that if it was discussed, I missed it, I apologize. But if it hasn't been thoroughly explored, I think it ought to be. I am a mountain biker. I've built trails as an Eagle Scout and working for the Forest Service in my earlier years.
 I also have had a very good experience both as a hiker and a cyclist in the belief that these trails can be shared and that people are respectful of each other.
 And if bad things have happened, at least in my experience, sometimes it's about the trail design, making sure that you can see people far enough in advance, slow down, and the people that are also using the trail can hear you and see you as well in many cases. So I appreciate the opportunity to be here, and I'm really excited about what you guys have accomplished thus far. I hope that the discussion can continue, and thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thanks. Welcome. Hello, and thank you very much for the opportunity to speak here today. My name is Joshua Easton. I'm a professor of environmental politics and governance at Portland State University. I'm also an advocate for conservation and preservation, as well as a homeowner in the Collinsview neighborhood, which is adjacent to the Riverview Natural Area. I'm also a former professional trail builder and designer, so I think that I can see this issue from several different angles here.
 I want to say that I do not support the adoption of this management plan at this time because, as some have suggested earlier, it makes absolutely no sense to lock ourselves into a management plan without regard to the types of access or recreational uses that might potentially be allowed there someday.
 We've gone back and forth about the possibility of trail adjustments or slight modifications to this existing plan should it be adopted and should mountain bikes be allowed there. I'm not sure that that's consistent with the type of use that a multi-use trail would require.
 In my position as an academic, I like to look at facts and research rather than assumption and hyperbole and anecdotal rhetoric in judging the legitimacy of public policy. As a citizen, I like to think that policymakers base policy on legitimate research and a technocratic orientation. I'm not sure that that has been the case in banning mountain bikes in RVNA. I understand that.
 some of the reasons and some of the rationale behind proceeding cautiously. But I do want to note that mountain bikes, unlike what was suggested earlier, are not inconsistent with the conservation easement itself. I want to read one line.
 from the conservation easement, and this is Section B permitted uses, and that is grant to our reserves all rights accruing from the ownership of the property, including the right to engage in or permit or invite others to engage in all uses of the easement area that are not inconsistent with the terms of this easement or expressly prohibited herein."
 Now, while mountain biking is not expressly designated as an acceptable activity, it's certainly not inconsistent with the terms of the easement. And I base that assumption on the fact that there has been absolutely no research that I can find, and I have looked, connecting mountain biking to deteriorations in water temperature or quality, particularly when these activities are done on appropriately designed trails. Yes.
 Trails now are ad hoc, and they're not appropriately designed, and so it's normal to expect some erosion to occur. Furthermore, there has been no research, at least that I'm aware of, on the actual volume of water flow that goes into the Willamette from the RVNA property. So we're not even really sure how much water, because as part of the plan suggests, part of the reason and the rationale behind the conservation easement was to provide a cold water source in 2019.
 into the limit for salmonids, we're not really sure that a lot of water, a significant amount of water flows in. And I see that my time has expired here, so I'll stop there. I only want to say that if done correctly and if designed correctly, these uses are entirely consistent with the conservation plan at RVMA. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I feel like I'm watching Groundhog Day, and I'm Bill Murray.
 Actually, I'm Andrew Jansky, the Advocacy Chair of Northwest Trail Alliance. Our group has been around for 27 years under other names. Basically, we're living the same nightmare year after year within the city of Portland regarding bike access to trails. Back then, many of the folks you see in the room were not even born. A lot of them had to go back to work because they had to take off an hour from their day job.
 Because, you know, we're too busy trying to work, build a career, raise a family, and to come to a midday meeting like this. So it's pretty hard for them to make it. So it's really good to see. I think what you see them showing is a pretty big deal.
 So, I think one thing you can see is the conversation about off-road cycling is changing. It's moving more. It's getting elevated. And part of that's based on the mayor's leadership and the support from the city council. So, you know, we definitely look forward to open an honest discussion about the future of cycling in Portland. We just have one problem, and that's a negative legacy in the form of the plan before you. Okay.
 And that was influenced by people in a process that was really typical over the last 25 years about the discussion about mountain biking. And that's about how long we haven't been able to mountain bike in Portland. So my question is, will this city council be the last to replay in Groundhog Day and simply rubber stamp this and move a flawed...
 public process forward or do you want to be remembered as the first council to take a progressive view on cycling and Really acknowledge that fossil fuel saved by avoiding thousands and thousands of miles driven to ride a bike is that important? I would like you to consider How much of Riverview is actually dedicated to offset the carbon from all of us driving an hour every weekend to go biking? Maybe twice. I probably drive 4,000 miles to go biking every year at least and
 So if I could do it here, that might save some things at Riverview. There are many things in the management plant that are good, but the trail alignment portions are influenced behind the scenes in a closed process, and it does not really reflect the best recreation options for the city of Portland. So I see you have really one option at this point, and it's to not adopt it right now. The plan is good. It's got good stuff, but the trail alignment we have issues with. He brought up the –
 Metro easement, we're working with Metro and we had meetings about how you design trails. And so it came down to, do you have shared use? Do you have separate uses? How do you avoid conflicts? You have a climbing trail and a trail that people are going a little slower on. So there's some things that Metro is leading the way on how to design a trail so that we could actually avoid some of the things. The worst thing is if
 If we move forward, allow bikes, and then they say, oh, see, this was the worst thing ever. I think we need some flexibility to deal with that. So will you be the last council to keep the old Portland ways, or the first council to take a progressive look and look forward to an open and honest discussion about off-road cycling? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Okay, I think we have a couple more folks, please. Yes, the last two are Charlie Sponsel and Kathleen Walker. Come on up. Anyone else? Yes.
 wanted to speak and didn't get signed up, come on up and join them. I'd like to recommend against adopting. Just put your name back in the record, too. My name is Charlie Sponsel. I was a student at Lewis and Clark College, and I was a member of the Political Advisory Committee for the Riverview process. And I, as a member, filed as part of the Minority Report and encourage you to not adopt this plan, this highly flawed plan. So...
 As an anecdote, there were several dog owners on the committee, dog owners that enjoyed, that lived in the neighborhood or didn't, that enjoyed walking their dogs on the property. We had a spirited discussion about whether dogs were compatible with the resource preservation goals for Riverview. They were not, and the dog owners acquiesced.
 And that's a beautiful thing, subordinating your personal preferences, expressing your personal preferences, but then subordinating them for the will of the group. That is what democracy is all about. That is what the city of Portland wants to be about. And they were based in research that was brought to us about dogs. That discussion did not happen for mountain biking. That discussion was actually banned. There was a spirited discussion taking place.
 The committee stopped meeting, and then when the committee began meeting again, Director Abate informed us that we could not discuss mountain biking on the committee.
 In between, during that one-year break, mountain biking was no longer an approved use, and we still don't know why. When I asked the natural resource ecologist for Parks and Rec, she informed me that mountain bikes are not being accused of raising water temperatures, and we are not being accused of creating sediment in the stormwater runoff or in the creeks.
 We'll never know what the Riverview Natural Area Advisory Committee thinks about mountain biking because we weren't allowed to have that discussion. Emily bought a beautiful cake. It was really nice. It looked just like Riverview. And the cake has already been cut. We've eaten it. That group will never convene again. We will never have the opportunity to discuss the merits of mountain biking, the finer points of trail planning or management between multiple user groups.
 What if the Off-Road Advisory Committee suggests that mountain bikes should not be included on the same trails as hikers? They should have separate trail networks. Well, that's obviously not possible given the trail alignment at Riverview. That could have been possible if that were part of the discussion that we had, but that can't happen. It is totally illogical to approve this plan until we have best practices in mind for mountain biking for the city of Portland. We don't. Thank you.
 Thank you. Welcome. Hi. Thank you. I'm writing to encourage you and your staff to hold off on approving this Riverview Natural Area. Oh, I'm sorry, Kathleen Walker, to hold off on approving it, or short of that, to adopt it with the caveat that it may be amended pending outcome of the off-road trail plan currently being developed. Thank you.
 I'm a recently retired Forest Service Trails Planner and Recreation Manager on the Mount Hood National Forest for almost 30 years. And my daughter attends neighboring Lewis and Clark College. I came late to the table for Riverview recently.
 when I asked Eric Tonkin of Selwood Cycles where she and I could ride bikes between around Lewis and Clark and get from Lewis and Clark down to Selwood. Two weeks later, it was closed to bikes. I read the conservation easement that went along with this. Oh, back up a little bit. I'm also 30-year long-term friends with Kate Holleran that was on the committee and works for Metro as a natural resource planner. So I was able to kind of talk to her a little bit about some of the background. Okay.
 But I did read the easement that was assigned by all parties, and I wanted to kind of quote because a lot of that easement language has been quoted, but I think the second general purpose there on that easement was preservation of land areas for outdoor recreation by the general public. So that recreation all along, in addition to fish and wildlife habitat protection, was part of the equation on that easement.
 There's additional mentions in the easement for recreation. So the parcel was purchased also with Parks and Recreation funds and got an Oregon State Recreation Trails Program grant to develop the area for recreational trails. So I think there is some latitude there to emphasize allowing mountain bikes there. According to the data collected, the primary recreational use of that land was mountain bikers.
 I'm the first to admit that the trails that were out there were steep, unsustainable, had no bridges over streams and were a problem. There have been adverse resource impacts as a result of the unmanaged and undesigned use. However, there are many skilled trail planners as well as willing mountain bike partners such as Northwest Trail Alliance who are willing to design, construct, maintain and patrol mountain bike trails within the Riverview Natural Area.
 These trails can be co-located with hiking and running paths to address user conflicts while protecting core habitat and riparian areas for wildlife.
 These trails could remove little to no vegetation and maintain the canopy cover and the stream temperatures. The mountain bike trails can be sloped for drainage, hardened with packed gravel if necessary, and maintained in a sustainable manner. Groups like the NWTA have provided good examples in Stubb-Stewart and Sandy Ridge that are 30 miles to the east and west here. We really need this area maintained.
 closer to town though. So my 30 years of experience in managing national forest lands with user conflicts and important resources helps me understand your predicament here. But an admired leader said that at this time you can't set this area aside like a rare book and say nobody can touch it. You really need users
 to come with you and help you maintain and manage it and patrol this area to keep out the homeless camps, the dumps, and things like that. So I really encourage you to consider getting the mountain bikers involved in doing the trail design. Your trails plan is very conceptual, and it's not specific to the trail design standards for mountain bikes.
 And so it's not going to work. I mean, anything that looks like a corkscrew, which is what it looks like on that plan, isn't really going to work well for mountain bikes. So you really – I can understand setting aside certain zones for people and access, but I really want to see the mountain bikers involved in the more specific trails development plan. And it's going to be more than a 5- or 10-foot realignment. Okay.
 It's going to be something a little bit bigger, and you need to have that flexibility to make the changes and make that plan work for mountain bikers. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else? So maybe we can have some staff back up and address questions. Michelle, maybe you too. So Mike, just get you to reflect a little bit. Frankly, it's distressing that we've got this impasse. Yes.
 that got a very capable open-minded parks director works well with the community got a exceptional planner doing this project and yet we ended up at this this juncture what do we learn from this and where do we go from here well mr. mayor I believe that one of the lessons we've learned is
 There is a great demand for appropriate mountain biking in our city, and we have very few facilities. And I think that's what led you and the council to support doing a citywide look at mountain biking. Somebody mentioned, you know, Stubb Stewart and Sandy Ridge, 30 miles either side of Portland. There are very few, there are virtually no facilities for mountain bikes in the city in our recreation region.
 We're talking about Gateway Green and other facilities, but it's certainly a recreation need that we're not meeting currently.
 So you think it's that frustration that's the heart of this, that we just aren't there? Absolutely. I mean, there was testimony that people have been asking for these kind of facilities for 20 years. And other places have been proposed. And on a site-by-site basis, there are reasons in the moment to say not here. And so that's why I think looking citywide is the appropriate response.
 So what will be the effect in a practical way of adopting the management plan now and then when Michelle completes her work revisiting the question of trail location? Well, one thing, mountain biking is not one specific type of activity. You've heard testimony from people that you might say are more on the recreational side. You've heard testimony from people who are active competitors around, who have incredibly world-class skills.
 It's like walking or hiking. Our system ought to have a spectrum of facilities, but in general, our recreation facilities cater to the beginner and the intermediate. We don't have super advanced recreation programs, for example. We let clubs take that over. So I think in terms of what the net effect would be, the alignment, I think we have a
 absolute support for the fact that it protects the interior habitat and still provides two different recreational experiences. This is not appropriate for an expert-level mountain biking facility. If the council at some date in the future wants to allow mountain biking here, that alignment –
 realize that it does have switchbacks, is not going to provide a certain kind of mountain biking experience. But like Leif Erikson in Forest Park does, we have opportunities for people to ride bikes in nature. And so it may not be the highly competitive place, but if council in the future decided they wanted to do that at Riverview using that alignment, it could be done using that alignment.
 I think if you go back to considering other alignments, then I think that would be a very difficult situation because of all the work that's been done to demonstrate that the alignment as it's shown in the plan is the most supportable place to balance the competing values. Thank you.
 Emily, do you have some other comments? Well, I'd just like to point out that we also developed some design criteria for the plan. That is on page 28 and 29 and 30. And it really sets the vision for what Riverview Natural Area is about. And it's based on our goals of protecting and enhanced watershed health of the site,
 to protect the natural resources. And it talks to trail design, where we are going to create loops, avoid dead ends, use best management practices, provide opportunities for people, a variety of modes if approved, or through the off-road cycling plan, of really to enjoy nature of which the site was originally purchased and preserved. I also want to stress that the plan, the line that is shown on the map,
 We set for the plan, and we instructed the consultants that the trail should be on the outer 300-foot edge of the property. Of course, the loop at the top is not because we wanted to provide an experience for people, a less challenging experience, so that if you had your kids and other things that you wanted to come and practice some mountain biking, they would have that up, or walking, or whatever, that opportunity there.
 I think what really has to be said is when we go into design and construction, this is a concept that we are trying to do. We may not have all those switchbacks. We may not, you know, it may not be exactly where it's located, but it will be within the outer 300 feet of the property except where we can't make a turn or something like that. So I want to stress that, you know, it's not, it's
 The design criteria which we gave the consultant to work on is protect the natural resources and put the trail in the outer 300-foot corridor of the property. So we will have some opportunity...
 If mountain biking is allowed back into Riverview, we have talked about this in parks. We will go back out to the community. We will have the conversation with the community about the mountain bike trail, what it's going to look like, how it is going to be managed, who it is going to be maintained by. All of those things. Will we only allow mountain biking on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday? Will it only go one direction? Yes.
 We have made that commitment within parks that if this comes back in, we will go back out to the community to have that conversation with them. So why not do that before completing this? That's the bottom line question that's being raised by the Viking Ed. We were instructed not to have that opportunity as part of this plan. So I just want to –
 It's taken us two years to get here even with that. I think the important piece that Emily just pointed out is about that the trail will be in the outer 300 feet. And let's be clear here. We're not saying everybody else can go down to the river and into the central natural area and only mountain bikers cannot. What this plan does is says that nobody is going to be going into the most sensitive areas.
 And so that's what it's doing. It's a natural area framework plan. I want to just assure my colleagues something that I have learned recently. We accept master plans by resolution, and then if ever we get the money to implement them, which can sometimes be 20 years, we
 We look at that master plan. We do sometimes reconvene the committee and ask them for ongoing advice. In the case of the Lentz Park master plan, we recently looked at where they had located the turf field and started questioning, is that actually the best place for that? So we went back to the committee, said, you know, we could take out fewer trees if we put it in this alignment. What do you think of that?
 committee and the community said no actually we like the original master plan and we that's what we're moving forward with it's not it's not like it's defined within even five or ten feet it's it's a concept and it more particularly it delineates the sensitive core of the site where all we're going to be doing is education and research and quality yeah
 Exactly, and that is why I pointed out the design criteria, because that is really what was guiding the access concept was this design criteria and what the vision was for what the vision is for Riverview. So if the heart of the matter is preserving the core of the natural area as such, and if you've made it clear that the trails are going to be in the outer 300 feet,
 then why the interim prohibition of biking if you've got trails in the outer 300 feet? Because the way you have to design the trail in order to be able to discourage people from going through the sensitive area. And since we don't have the money to do that, as we heard earlier, it would be $1.5 million to actually construct an environment where it would be easier to stay on the trail than to go off it. Right now, there's no improvements at all. So that you're...
 You're coming at this then, your claim here is that you're coming at this from a practical standpoint, that you can't police the question. Yeah, we can't. Well, not only can we not police, we can't even provide the improved trails. These trails don't exist yet. I get that. That's correct. There are trails on the site, but as many have testified, they're too steep. There's erosion that's happening on the site now currently.
 So remind us, Michelle, the timeline for the completion of your project. We are looking to have that to council this year. And, Michelle, I mean, actually this question for everybody, including my colleagues, I mean –
 I'm concerned about the suggestion that the off-road bicycling master plan could recommend particular forms of trails in Riverview, but the decision we make today is going to preclude consideration of what they're recommending. So I'd like some assurance that it will be possible to consider changes to the Riverview trails plan if the off-road bicycling master plan recommends different options.
 Yes, Commissioner, that's what your amendment makes abundantly clear. Right. And we can always amend master plans. But based on what Director Abate said, it sounded like, oh, well, we are precluding certain forms of mountain biking. The alignment we're recommending is locked in stone, and that's not going to change. Right.
 I think there's two things. There is an alignment that's shown in the plan. But as Emily said, in all of our master plans, they're conceptual. The reason they're switchbacks is because we ask the consultants to minimize the slope on the trail to minimize erosion. So that is happening. Our responsibility when we go from a master plan to construction drawings is –
 Is it consistent with the master plan? If there's big deviations, as the commissioner said, where we're considering big deviations, we go back to the group who advised the master planning process. Okay.
 And we're doing this, a good example is the Gateway Plaza and Park. We're currently designing that now, and it's changed a little bit. The play area is a little bit different, a little bit bigger, but it's consistent with the master plan. And that's our pledge to the council is to make sure that we deliver projects that are consistent with the master plan. Commissioner Novick, this is not a perfect analogy, but we adopt every 20 years a comprehensive plan.
 And we often have hearings in this body where there are competing, sometimes complementary, but often competing values that we have to reconcile. The ultimate arbiter of how we reconcile competing values is the council action. And what your amendment ensures is that the work product of a separate committee and recommendations come back to the council for discussion and debate, and the council, as I read the charter, has the final say on that.
 And as this amendment says. And I think the best example is how we deal with land use matters where there's competing values. And here there are genuinely competing values. And I think one of the benefits of the plan is it identifies kind of a hierarchy. And it points out that there's some places within this natural area, which I will remind people, were purchased in part with ratepayer dollars because of a particular purpose.
 And we have to be very careful when we use rapier dollars because we're not in the mountain biking business. We're not in the recreation business. We're not in the – the courts remind us we're not in lots of businesses. We are in the water quality business. We are in the watershed preservation business. We are in the natural area resource business. That's the great service that this has done, which I think, Mayor, you used the word impasse earlier. I regret you did so because I think there's a broad consensus here.
 about the value of protecting the natural area pieces. The question is, how can we harmonize a perfectly legitimate claim of a responsible user group within that context? That is our challenge. And by taking up a holistic view, which we funded in terms of a citywide planning process,
 We've committed to welcoming our friends, the mountain bikers. As I said, and I still have the scars to prove it, when we worked through a similar discussion in Forest Park that didn't go as far as I had hoped, there's some precedence for this. Once upon a time, there were people who frowned on skateboarders and said, how does that fit within our system? Now we're very proud that we have dedicated skateboard parks and we have more to fill out.
 There are lots of uses that over time have evolved. The question isn't whether we're pro or con. That's an ideological construct, and I reject it. The question is how do we harmonize where and under what circumstances? And that, Mayor Hales, is the same criteria that you've applied on this council in 25 years.
 It does not prejudice one group against another. But I would maintain, particularly since as the commissioner in charge of the utility, it has to be particularly careful about how we use ratepayer dollars,
 The harmonizing of any recreational activity, hiking, walking, running, using your dogs, riding a bike, in a sensitive natural area, particularly when it's been acquired with ratepayer dollars, has to be very – those lines have to be very carefully drawn. I think the management plan has done a laudable job, but Commissioner Novick's amendment ensures that the council has a robust discussion if we – if, if, if –
 we get a recommendation from the citywide task force that we ought to put some resources here. My guess is that we're going to get recommendations for a plethora of options because the idea is not just to have one place. It's to have many. That's why we're pursuing gateway green. That's why we work with on pump trails in various parks. That's why we're looking at expanding existing facilities in, in forest park. It's holistic. And I I've heard nothing which says that we're restricted when it comes back to us from making necessary changes. If the committee decides,
 in its wisdom, thinks this is appropriate. And if the council, a majority of the council, believes so, and I believe there's a majority of the council that's already kind of signaled that they'd like to see if we can be flexible on this. So I think the record's been made.
 so commissioner what one thing i'm particularly concerned about i mean i thought that my amendment would it was basically saying we are not making decisions about mountain biking and riverview today uh but what director abate said is yes we are making a decision that certain forms of mountain biking will be prohibited now i'm not a mountain biking expert but i actually like to the audience to indicate with raised hands do you are you concerned by that statement of director or is that okay
 So, I mean, if we are making – I mean, I wasn't prepared today to make decisions about precluding certain forms of mountain biking. And from what Director Abate said, adopting this report would do that. But we're precluding particular areas. So the plan is absolutely silent on whether particular kinds of recreational activities are allowed in the sensitive inner area. It says all of them are not allowed. It says that we're protecting the inner area.
 So it's not that we're saying everybody else is welcome to wander down to the streams and mountain bikes have to stay out. It's saying everybody is going to stay out. If I might just clarify, maybe I wasn't very clear. Right now, on page 30, it says interim prohibited biking of any kind within the site. That's interim. That's today if you accept this plan.
 but your amendment says, but we have a citywide effort that's looking, and it might, in fact, make recommendations to change that, and we could do that.
 What I meant to say is not in perpetuity. It's subject to the council's direction after the citywide plan. Let me just read from page 48. As plan implementation, the use of mountain bikes will remain a prohibited use until completion of the city's off-road cycling master plan, through which Riverview Natural Area will be considered as a candidate property for cycling. It says that right in the plan. Emily, you look like you're going to add some illumination as well, or did Mike cover it?
 I covered it. I think I just would like to reiterate for all of us the vision of what Riverview Natural Area was purchased for. And we have a lot of user groups throughout the city that want to use our natural areas for all sorts of different things. I think through this process, and though it was limited on our whole discussion of mountain biking,
 it really brought forward and protects the natural resources and the aquatic functions of which Riverview was purchased for. And I think that is very important to keep as our highest standard for this site.
 And I think also that through our design criteria, which we were very thoughtful about, again, I want to reiterate, that we looked at that the outer 300 feet is possible for recreation. That is what we instructed our consultant to do. They did the best job they could without going out and staking in the field and looking where every turn is and where every tree is.
 and if mountain biking is brought back in the site again we will be looking within that 300 feet as the best place to put a trail that will accommodate all users safely so is it possible in your opinion that once the off-road plan is completed that there could be additional trail sections in that outer 300 feet in addition to the line that's shown on the map now
 It could be considered as long as the goals for protecting natural resources are also maintained. What I really want people to understand is it would be very difficult for us, both the way the property was purchased and why we're protecting the natural resources, to put trails through in the interior of that site. I understand that. I'm saying in that outer 300 feet, could there be more than one trail?
 That is a possibility, and that's what I wanted to, you know, it depends on what mountain biking comes in. We may have a discussion where we would have, as I said before,
 a pedestrian trail and a biking trail next to it. If that at some segment of the trail is going to provide safety, then that is what we will do. We haven't had that opportunity to design. We will look at all those things through the design process that meets the trail guidelines and the goals of the natural resource management plan. By the way, I've been on this council seven years, and I've lost track of how many plans we've adopted. But...
 You know, in almost every other context, we are urged to adopt a plan which sets forth a framework and then to look at the specific cases. We did it in the Bicycle Master Plan. We did it in the Climate Action Plan. We did it most recently in a plan that stated our values around export of fossil fuels. Time and time again, we set the vision with the plan, understanding that it is inherently flexible.
 But it sets out the things that we have to look at. And I think what you've heard from your project manager on the second part of this exercise, which is the citywide look on off-road cycling, is that this plan offers a set of values and cautionary notes and science upon which good judgments can be made about opportunities citywide. But it is our tradition.
 to adopt the plan first, set the broader case, and then come in and look at how we harmonize that with other things. And I don't, in this case, Mayor, I have a hard time seeing how any particular group, pedestrian, hikers, runners, people with dogs, off-road cyclists, and others are being treated any differently. No, I hear you on that. I guess the purpose of this discussion, in my mind, is to make sure we get some things on the record. Okay.
 and to get some things clear about what we are going to consider and aren't going to consider later on if we do adopt this plan. So, Mike, let me return to something you said in passing
 but I think it's really important and it's maybe part of why we got to this level of anxiety about mountain biking in general and about this plan in particular and I'm gonna sort of ask you to hold up your hand and and swear allegiance to a principle but I think it's not going to be that hard for you but every parks Commissioner and every parks director has adhered to a principle in Portland that the park system ought to have big shoulders
 and that every recreational use and every recreational activity should, to the best of our ability, be accommodated, and that new things like skateboards or mountain bikes come along.
 or, God forbid, drone competitions. I'm making that one up. I hope that's not here yet. The permit is in on that one. But we do have people flying little gasoline-powered airplanes around in circles in Delta Park. So, you know, we accommodate an almost bewildering variety of recreational uses. And the point is that we keep trying to do that.
 I trust that you, like your predecessors, believe that's still a good principle and that we should still be trying to the best of our ability and with the dollars we can lay our hands on to meet all those different needs that our citizens have. I do, Mr. Mayor, and I would expand that to say one of the things that's very important is the role that Parks and Recreation plays on community health.
 And in these times, the more we can do to give people opportunities to get outside and physically active, the better. Because our culture is fighting against that. And virtual is not the same as real. And so I'm committed to providing as many, as wide a diversity of recreational opportunities as possible.
 We've talked about bike polo. That's one of my favorites just because it's a very small group, but they're very passionate. They're very committed to it. We do have an amazing park system that can accommodate many, many diverse outdoor recreational activities. Mike, you gave a wonderful answer, but I'm going to qualify it because I'm going to speak for the Bureau of Environmental Services. Our shoulders are less broad. And we have people coming to us all the time with extremely compelling asks in natural areas.
 including creating places for people to camp, creating recreational opportunities, staging events. They're all very compelling, but we are not in the recreational parks business, and we have a different filter, and we are going to err in our analysis on the side of protecting the natural resources. And the challenge, Mayor, in the great Portland tradition is harmonizing these values. I do not see them as inconsistent, and Riverview, because of the different funding sources, Metro,
 and two pots in the city is a unique challenge of how we can harmonize. And we've had some testimony about an easement, which is a pretty important document, which has some specific language. But BES and parks have a great tradition of working together. We're all committed to the same thing, which is a better Portland. Can we find ways to try to harmonize? Yes. Have we made a record at this hearing where there has been a signal that
 We need to be as flexible as possible within the constraints of the ecological health of the property we acquired? Yes. But respectfully, with that now in the record, I think we can adopt this plan and still point to a day when there's a larger discussion about creating broader opportunities throughout the city for off-road cyclers who are a very, very important constituency in the city and in particular within the park system. Mayor, where are you at this point? I mean, I'm...
 Frankly, a little concerned about voting today, given what I've heard. And it would be nice, Commissioner Saltzman, we're here. But, I mean, I think you share my concerns. Are you satisfied that we are going to have enough flexibility going forward that you'll be willing to support to vote for this? I share your concerns. And I was originally interested in delaying. I think given this discussion and your amendment, I could vote for it today.
 with some things on the record that i'll add to what i've already put on the record so if that's satisfactory to you commissioner novick if you're willing to proceed today i'd like to proceed take a vote with considerable hesitation yes but i appreciate the discussion we've just had and commissioner fish's remark about significant flexibility
 So, okay, let's take a vote. Thank you very much, staff. Let's take a vote, please, unless there's any further questions that you have for our resource people.
 Well, thank you very much, everybody who's participated on all sides. And there's not just two sides to this. There's multiple sides. I am more proud than ever of my staff in Portland Parks and Recreation. And thank you so much, especially Emily Roth, who has guided this process through thick and thin and sometimes has had to implement directions of her commissioner and others that have,
 We're not able to explain fully to the public. We do have a responsibility to right payers. As Commissioner Fish mentioned, this is not only a park. It's managed by Portland Parks and Recreation, but it was purchased with millions of dollars of right payer dollars. And we need to be very careful then to protect the purposes for which it was purchased.
 With the input of my park staff and with the Northwest Trail Alliance and others, I have learned through this process that it is possible to construct trails that are safe and for all users, that they can be careful of habitat damage.
 and natural resource conservation. With the discussion that we've had today of where the trails are, not only for potential mountain bike use, but also for all human use, I will be open to...
 a recommendation from the off-road cycling plan, as Bob Salinger of Audubon said, that it seems that it is quite feasible to put a mountain bike path around in or near the designated location of the trail. The important part to me is the protection of the internal watershed and habitat area, and I think that that's the key value of this plan. Thank you.
 I also want to thank, of course, Mike Abbate and BES Director Michael Jordan and Maya Spencer, who, as Emily noted, put a lot of time into responding to constituent concerns. Thank you very much to all of the Project Advisory Committee members for your two years of service, not only on this plan, but for really pushing the discussion of citywide, what are we going to do to accommodate this use that really doesn't have facilities in Portland. I appreciate it.
 dedicated parks money to buying the Gateway Green property, and I'm very committed to seeing if we can turn that into a new facility for biking. The pump track at Ventura Park is phenomenal, and I want to see how many more of those can we –
 put in a park citywide and also to revisit the issue of Forest Park and where there might be some more appropriate places for all kinds of recreational opportunities where we could
 share our natural areas. I mean, I think the passion that I've heard in the room today is partly because there isn't enough to go around. And that is the case in many of the issues that we hear about, be it the city budget, be it housing, all kinds of city services and indeed land.
 We just don't have enough for everything that everybody would want to do in them. And so we need to develop these kinds of thoughtful master plans that decide in a framework what we think the bottom line is. I appreciated Mike Houck's comment that he wouldn't feel comfortable moving forward with the off-road cycling plan unless this master plan is accepted. Right.
 because it does set the framework. But as was noted, master plans are subject to revisiting. If necessary, we can bring that to council. And it's important to have a framework that sets the design guidelines and many of the values and principles.
 Perks was a partner in this purchase because we, as a city, saw the recreational opportunities in Riverview and recreational opportunities of all kinds. I particularly appreciated the second-to-last speaker who discussed the issues of dogs in this area. I was frankly expecting at least an hour and a half of testimony from dog owners, and it's a testimony to the...
 thoroughness of the committee's deliberations and of the community outreach that indeed dog owners, I didn't know about this hearing, but also accept that this area was purchased with some very special purposes in mind and that water quality has to be one of the foremost of that.
 I appreciate my colleagues' discussion, and especially Commissioner Novick's amendment, which calls out the part of the plan information that indeed that council is going to revisit this after the discussion. It's really important to know, too, about the funding,
 that we adopt master plans in part because then we can go after state and other grants to get funding to implement them. There's almost no grant that you can go for unless a master plan has been adopted. And so that's one of the reasons, one of the many reasons for adopting this plan today rather than waiting, is that we want to start looking around for opportunities for funding because,
 $5 million is a lot of money, and this year, Parks is being asked to cut $2.9 million. And we have hundreds of millions of deferred maintenance on existing facilities that we need to address, as well as looking at how do we expand opportunities in many different areas of Portland where we frankly don't have enough. So thank you very much, colleagues, for your support of this plan. Aye.
 Well, Commissioner Fritz has said just about everything I would like to say. But I'll start by just making a comment about how we have these discussions. In the old days when my family actually lived, we shared the same house and they weren't all in Europe, I would go home after a day like this and I would say that I'm surprised I get paid to do this work. And the point that I would make is that I have a front row seat,
 in something that is kind of expected in Portland but doesn't work as well in other places, which is a civil conversation among people that have disagreements, in which everybody is passionate and thoughtful. And sitting up here, I agree with some stuff and disagree. But nonetheless, we give each other the respect of a chance to be heard, and then we have to make a decision. So I want to thank everyone who took time out today to come and testify and make a record. And I think the mayor has –
 indicated earlier that the importance of having a record, because that record will guide the next process, the next steps in our process. I've had the supreme honor of having been the commissioner in charge of Portland Parks and Rec, which in the last five or six years won the gold medal as the best managed park system in the world.
 country. And I now have the honor of being in charge of the Bureau of Environmental Services. And Mike Houck, I really appreciate what you said in your testimony about the quality of the people who work for those two bureaus and the quality of their work. And again, we can have disagreements about specific details and plans. We can have disagreements about process and we can have an honest disagreement about sequencing. But let's take a moment to celebrate the professionals who work in both bureaus and provide great public service to our city.
 And in particular, Emily, thank you for your presentation and the work you've done today. It was customarily superb. I look back over seven or so years on the council, and the acquisition of Riverview was one of the handful of the proudest moments of my service. And it wasn't just that I got to stand with my favorite governor, Barbara Roberts, and my colleague, Dan Saltzman, and the Trust for Public Land, a lot of other people, and celebrate the moment.
 But I had learned in looking at some old Olmstead maps and plans, and I had learned in talking to some graybeards, that we had a chance to acquire a wildlife corridor, which would be the envy of the country, a wildlife corridor on the west side, which would serve many, many purposes, but would set us up for generations to come. And we had a unique moment.
 And so a lot of people came together to make it happen, and it wasn't a sure thing. And the closing, when we closed and acquired the property, that wasn't the end of the story because we had to defend that acquisition in a lawsuit. And that lawsuit and some of those issues has something to do with a little hiccup in this process that some people in this room disagree with and are still concerned with. But people up here in our positions...
 have to balance a number of things, including legal advice and risks. And we sometimes have to do things that don't make us popular. But if we didn't occasionally do things that don't make us popular, you wouldn't want us to sit in these chairs. Now, as for where we go forward, this is a vitally important natural area that has a huge impact on water quality and temperature and on listed fish and other things. And this plan tells us that we may be able to accommodate
 both the preservation of the resources that really matter and that are sensitive, and what I consider to be a wholly legitimate claim of an important user group of our system that they want to have access to it. And I actually believe that there are, within the ranks of mountain bikers, the majority of mountain bikers love and care for our system just like every other user.
 And I hate it when we start sort of making generalizations about people's behavior. And after all, I have a bike at home, and I'm proud to use it occasionally. So we shouldn't do that. But what we're doing today is something very important. We're adopting a plan which states very clearly our values. And there's a hierarchy of values here. And at the top of the chain is we're protecting something in nature that is irreplaceable.
 And we're going to ask everybody to make some accommodations so we can protect something that has a very important function to our long-term health as a community. And a lot of people have fought long and hard to protect natural areas in this city, and I believe what we're doing today is in the great tradition of a long tradition that goes back 150 years, the biggest system, the Olmsteads. I want to thank the PAC members for their service, all the people who have come here to testify.
 And I want to commit to you, Mayor, because you've taken the lead on the citywide look, and you led the effort to secure funding, which I was proud to support. I come with an open mind and open heart in the next phase of this discussion. I have some history here, both in trying to find the balance in Forest Park, where I fell short, but in working with my colleague, Commissioner Fritz, to acquire Gateway Green, which has the potential to be one of the most significant off-road cycling opportunities in the state.
 and working with the Northwest Trails Alliance on some pump tracks and thinking holistically about how do we bring this important user group into the family, and I'm committed to doing so. So I thank everybody for what I think has been an important hearing, and today I'm proud to cast my vote aye. Oh, excuse me, and I thank my colleague, Commissioner Novick, for his amendment, which I thought was customarily thoughtful and statesmanlike, and I think it enshrined an important point in our discussion. So I thank you for that. Aye. Novick.
 I'm not often accused of being statesman's leg, so I appreciate that, Commissioner Fish. I remain troubled by some of the testimony I've heard about the process that led us to this point. And I understand that there's a number of people in this room that
 don't feel comfortable with this plan and think that it forecloses options that should be considered. But I trust my colleagues and I appreciate their adoption of my amendment and their assurances that that's not window dressing, that in fact they're willing to consider changes to the review trails plan if the off-road bicycling master plan based on the suggestions in the offer by master plan when that's completed. But I think that it's clear that they've
 Off-road bicyclists in this room have our attention. We will be looking at this. We will not just forget about this and decide that we've already made our decisions that are to be made in rear review. So I encourage your continued advocacy, and we will – I think we've all made it clear that we're willing to work with you on the actual implementation of this plan and possibly modifications to this plan in the future. Thank you.
 Thank you all, and thanks to staff, thanks to all the advocates on all sides. Aye. Mills? Let me offer some reassurances and some further direction to this discussion. To some extent, I'm going to echo the good words of my colleagues, but I want to put these things in my own words. My first reassurances are almost going to sound legalistic, but I think they are important. We're not adopting a land use plan here or a street map.
 We're adopting a master plan. We're adopting a management plan. And it's important. It's an important document. It says this is what we plan to do here, but it is not as legalistic as some of those other documents are.
 It's not our first rodeo when it comes to adopting these kinds of plans Commissioner fish mentioned the Olmstead plan the Olmstead plan was drafted in 1900 1901 and adopted by the City Council. Okay Mike 1903. Sorry and It was it was what planners today would call a blob plan and
 It said, you know, it's going to be a long way from Portland to a forest someplace. So buy that ridge there northwest of town and create a forest reserve. Buy the top of Mount Tabor. Buy that bluff down in Selwood, which was really a radical thing to say because I think at that point Selwood was another city detail. Buy that bluff in Selwood from the railroad company because that would be a great park. It was very general.
 And we haven't carried it all out, but we keep trying to. We still refer to it. We still ground some of our decisions in that plan. But Lord knows it hasn't guided us in every particular because it was a general plan. This one's more specific than that, but this discussion was important.
 because we haven't nailed down every last detail of where the trails will be in this park and nor should we at this point um so that sounds a little legalistic but it nevertheless i think it's important that we're adopting a management plan second reassurance i'm really sorry and that's why i i had that little colloquy with director abate and emily that that there's been uh that there's some mistrust in this room
 And I'm sorry that there's been either a real or perceived exclusion of legitimate interests from a Portland process where we make policy. Because we always try to have all the legitimate interests at the table. And mountain bikers are a legitimate interest in the management of public spaces in the city of Portland. I'm not the only one up here that believes that.
 In fact, we all believe that. And I guess that's the thing I want to stress here is that one of the reasons that I was wounded by hearing that mistrust is I just want to tell you that you're dealing with public servants, these folks and those folks who are people of goodwill and who are not interested in exclusions or Machiavellian schemes that.
 corrupt that legitimate public process where everybody gets to be heard. So if that perception was felt by some of you in this process, I hope you'll forgive and
 Give some credit and hope to these good people, because I know Emily. She's a great planner. Mike Abate is a great parks director. You've got three former and current parks commissioners up here who all love the system, and Steve one day was going to want to be parks commissioner just so he can say that too. So you've got people of goodwill that want to work together on this, and we will. Thank you.
 One of the reasons I'm going to support this is it's been made clear a couple times, but let me again say it in my own words. This is not a generic park. It's not, to even be more flippant about it, not just hills and dirt. It's a natural area that was purchased to be a natural area. And Commissioner Fish emphasized that, and I subscribe to that.
 One more legalistic point, and it's one of the reasons why I put it in the record. The prohibition against mountain biking in this natural area is an interim prohibition because the trail network that would be a place where mountain biking could occur in a responsible way isn't there today. And so that interim prohibition is reasonable for now. I don't think it will be reasonable when we get to the final version of what the trail network in this park will be.
 Finally, the reason I asked for and that this council supported coming up with an off-road cycling plan for the city of Portland is back to that point that I made with Mike Abate. Our park system should have big shoulders. And Commissioner Fritz, you're right. There isn't enough to go around now, but there should be.
 There should be in a city with 200 parks, one of them 5,000 acres, there should be ample places where people can go ride their bike without burning a quart of gasoline to get to the place that they do that. And you know that I believe that and these other elected leaders here believe that and we're going to get there.
 Because it is a legitimate recreational use. And we haven't done a very good job of accommodating it. And it's time. So Andy and to all of you others who advocate for this, keep advocating because you're right. We need to accommodate this legitimate recreational use in a city with a park system with big shoulders and lots of land. And we will do that.
 So that process that Michelle is running is not some empty appeasement or not some way to try to make you guys go away. You're right, we need to accommodate this legitimate recreational use and Riverview may be one of the places where we do that.
 So with those reassurances and asterisks, I'm prepared to adopt this management plan, and I really look forward to the completion of Michelle's work. And then again, any of you who have felt
 In any way, like you weren't heard, please double down on getting involved in that process and making your case, because Portland should always be a place where people feel like they can come to the table, can make their case, can be heard, and where this council will listen, and that will be true. Thank you all for good work and for more good work to come. Bye.
 Commissioner Fritz, I think you had some comments before we closed. I do. It's always hard to be the first to talk because then everybody else says things like, oh, yes, that was a really good point. So, first of all, you referenced the off-road cycling plan. I want to acknowledge that it was the mountain biking community who came into our parks budget advisory committee about a year ago right now and made a really compelling case for putting that $300 into our proposal in which you then grasped. $300,000. What's that? $300,000, right. Sorry. Okay.
 So you then took that and pulled it into the Bureau of Planning, which I think really puts it in a citywide context. I wanted to particularly thank you for doing that and indeed commend the mountain biking community for their advocacy. It was interesting. We had testimony about the parks budget and –
 Earlier this week, it was community gardens that were the hot spot. So we'll be addressing that tonight in our budget meeting. But then, more importantly, there's somebody who I forgot to thank, and that's Patty Howard, who worked with me for seven years in City Hall with my parks liaison, was hugely involved in the Riverview Management Plan, in, indeed, the Utility Review Board and other water quality exports activities.
 expert actions. Patty decided to move from City Hall at the end of December, so she's not here for me to say thank you to her, but I don't know if she's watching at home or not, and I just wanted to acknowledge all of her good work. And then also Pooja Bhatt and Tim Crail on my staff, who picked up after Patty left and have helped carry it home. So it really has been a good effort from everybody, and I just wanted to acknowledge that. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you all. Thank you very much. And we are adjourned until next week. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good job. Commissioner? This is for you, because I'm going to speak here on the list. Thank you. Steve, thanks. Well done. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Already enough alone stuff? Nice job. Nice job. Thank you. I was falling asleep. And then Steve. OK, Nick? Commissioner. I mentioned earlier that next year, we're going to have a webinar. And I'm wondering if we're going to have a chance. He said he said.
 yeah but the it after I'll have someone my office we we we agreed what about