Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the January 14th meeting of the Fort Worth City Council. Would you please call the roll call? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Before we begin our council calendar, I think it's appropriate that we take a moment, and
 really tragic losses around the world in the last week in both France and Nigeria, a huge loss of life and of liberty, and I think those need to be noted with reverence and attention to our fellow citizens of the world.
 We also have had a tragic loss here in our city family this week. We lost Annette Palmer, one of our OMF employees who died suddenly this week while at work at the Portland building. She started with the city as an office support specialist in the Bureau of Purchases in 1998.
 She was promoted to be a compliance specialist in 2001 and worked to ensure that our contractors comply with city policy around minority and women contracting and our workforce initiatives. She has many friends within the city and is known for being a subject matter expert and providing excellent customer service. She's survived by her husband, Robin, three children, Derek, Alyssa, and TJ. We want to honor her for her service and commitment to our city.
 So, Christine Moody and her family from the Bureau is here. I think it's appropriate that for Annette and for these other tragic losses that we take a moment of silence, please. Thank you very much. Good morning. And, Christine, please pass along to Robin and all of your teammates and purchases our condolences for the loss of a good friend and a good colleague. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, we have some communications items up front. We'll take those first. Then we have some time certens and the rest of the council calendar. As usual, if you were here to speak...
 On a council calendar item, we typically allow three minutes unless it's a prearranged presentation. If you're here in support or opposition of an idea and you hear the opposite viewpoint, please give them the respect that they deserve. So we ask that we not have vocal demonstrations in the council, but feel free to give a nonverbal signal if you agree with someone. If you're a lobbyist and representing an organization, please disclose that because the code requires that you do.
 And with that, we'll take the first of the communications items, number 48. Request of Barry Joe Stull to address council regarding ganja. Stull, come on up. Good morning. My name is Barry Joe Stull. In about 1980, my friend Dan Haley and I were messing around down at Waterfront Park with our instruments, and we wrote a song named Ganja. Dan and I both learned as musicians it doesn't hurt to be in the food service industry,
 industry. And we ended up working at a place up here at Tenton Salmon in 1978. And we found out that we were both musicians and did some songwriting. And once I was visiting his house and I saw a flyer for an event at Reed College in April 1982. It was a conference on cannabis and
 And they were kind of the house band for that event. And I went there and got engaged in their initiative petition process to legalize cannabis. Ken Kesey, you might recall, one of our Oregon authors, spoke on industrial hemp in April 1982. And my friend, Todd Micaria, who I stayed at his house since, but I first saw him give a presentation as a readie.
 as a doctor who knew the value of cannabis therapeutics historically. I learned that more formally there in April 1982. I worked in 1984. A signature I gathered, totally illegitimate, was counted invalid by Multnomah County elections. I kind of took that personally. I took that as a front to our democracy.
 I made my first trip to the Library of Congress in 1985. By 1990, I had provided that research material to a number of publications, and it kind of circled the globe. So here we're coming into legal cannabis in Oregon. I'm a little bit miffed that my Library of Congress research was destroyed by my non-profit affordable housing landlord you're partnering with, Commissioner Saltzman. Halt at the dump.
 along with my registered medical marijuana garden. There wasn't some quack doctor off the back page of Willamette Week. Dr. Robert Grimm, my neurologist, said medical marijuana was my best treatment option. And I've been telling you for years that Fiveplex has been vacant. Affordable housing, nonprofit landlord has been keeping the apartment that they destroyed my research illegally. And you're partnering with the mayor? How am I supposed to feel good about this? Well...
 I know that we can all go on the internet and type in Barry Jo Stoll and Ganja and hear that song. Thank you. Next, please. Item 49, request of Elizabeth Ann McDowell to address council regarding minimum wage. Good morning. Good morning. So my name is Ann McDonald. I have been living in Portland for almost 10 years now.
 And I would just like to speak with you a little bit about my experience as a low-wage worker, because I think my experience is kind of common among my peer group. So I work at the Oregon Zoo. I've been there for eight years, and I'm still classified as a temporary worker.
 It started off as my college job. The temporary status wasn't a big issue when I was going to school, and the hours cap wasn't a big issue at the time.
 four years ago they put us on a pay freeze. And that wasn't a huge problem because I was getting financial aid and going to school. And I was like, well, when I graduate I'll get a better job. And then I graduated, and it really opened up my eyes. And I should have known better looking at the people around me and seeing that these other low-wage workers are adults who are paying rent, who have children oftentimes, who are paying student loans,
 I have a lot of friends who are low wage workers obviously and hours is a huge issue and availability of work, working multiple jobs I live with a house full of adults who all have jobs and are trying to afford rent and I know a lot of people who are in the exact same situation there's not a lot of jobs to be had out there and
 As much as hours is an issue, I can find another part-time, temporary, seasonal job. Wages are a number one issue. And this city really led the way in earn sick days.
 um so i'm a newly organized worker with uh laborers um 483 and this year for zoo lights we got earned sick days and holiday pay and other things that we hadn't gotten in the past because of the union and it's and it's made things a lot better um but when it when it comes down to it um
 The, you know, earn sick days are fabulous and they're crucial, especially in the food service industry. But when you can't afford rent, basically, from month to month, when, you know, it doesn't really matter how many hours you work. I say it's feast or famine at the zoo. And I talk about the zoo because I think of it as like a microcosm.
 Even when you're getting enough hours, it's still struggling to get by. I want to appreciate all of y'all agreeing to the city hearing next month to talk about low wages. It's a really important issue. And I'm a big supporter of the number 15. I'm making...
 under that now and it's impossible. So yes, $15 minimum wage would really help lift a lot of people out of poverty. That's basically all I have to say. And quick question. Thank you. So your employer is Metro, right? Correct. And thank you for framing the issue. We are going to be taking it up and we are going to be making some progress this year. I'm just curious, we had some out-of-state friends and we took them to Zoo Lights in the rain actually. What was your role?
 So most of my time at the zoo, I've been working in food. But this last season, I helped put up zoo lights, working on that crew. And then during zoo lights, I worked in the restaurants.
 And now that the event is over, I'm back with the crew doing Teardown. I'm going straight there after this. Thanks for your good work. It was an amazing event. Thank you. We're very, very proud of the zoo. And I love working there. The people there just really, yeah, have a lot of pride. We want it to look good. We want our visitors to have a great experience.
 And, um, it's, it's kind of the same way I, you know, I, I drive out of 26, you know, my way home and I look at the city and I just, I just love it. I never get tired of the view. I love Portland because it's progressive because I feel that our leaders, um, try to do a good job of, of serving our interests. I know, um, Ms. Fritz is a, we, you came to the zoo before last summer and we met for a little bit, um, the, um.
 And your support of parks workers is exemplary. And I know those guys are glad to have such a strong supporter in you. I can tell you that when we got the new contract with Metro, we did get a handful of permanent positions. Most of those positions did not go to zoo workers who had been there for a long time. A lot of them went to people that were brought on new.
 And the rest of us who are union do have a lot of the benefits that come with organized labor are still struggling, struggling. Even when we do get enough hours, just having a little bit extra to put aside for when the hours are slow, it makes a huge difference. Yeah, thank you. Yeah, thank you. Thanks for your advocacy. Appreciate you being here today. Thanks. Thanks.
 Okay. Item number 50. Request of Charles Johnson to address counsel regarding Yes on 92, Starbucks, new chief of police, the 99%, and health care. Good morning. Good morning, commissioners. As was noted for the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And I guess before we get to those topics that were just read, I do want to thank you, Mayor, all of you who talked before so that we did not just say je suis Charlie,
 but also remembered that 2,000 Nigerians have been killed recently, and that didn't catch much of the mainstream media, so I'm glad it was mentioned here at Council. And additional things that actually have, usually we talk about what's not going right, but Saturday the mayor went to Bethel AME Church and was receptive to a lot of words from the community about how we can improve policing or perhaps even just reduce policing in Portland.
 and was glad that the mayor invested that time and that Daryl Turner, chairman of the Portland Police Association, also went and listened to a number of people express their ideas of how we can have a more just police department. Then on the way in, I was talking to the representatives of...
 huge major media like the Portland Mercury and we talked about the fact that we're going to be settling a $47,000 police claim and that the mayor I think is taking an open records policy of not putting those items on the consent agenda Because when we make mistakes It's best to shed maximum light on them so that we can learn from those mistakes and improve the quality of our police So thank you for those things. I
 About six weeks ago, when I filled out the paperwork so that I could speak today, I was and am still concerned that residents in our city need to look into whether our beloved, not quite so local economic engine, Starbucks, is using profits from their beverages and snacks that we pay for to encourage Monsanto to sue the people of Vermont.
 Uh, in Portland, we're kind of familiar with the situation of people being sued by various entities. The United States of America is suing the city of Portland. Uh, we're appealing a small part of that decision, uh, that consent decree. But, uh, people need to know that, uh, with just a difference of some 800 votes, um...
 statewide, and particularly here in Portland, people really wanted to have labeling on GMOs, or at least that's how they voted. If they really want labeling on GMOs, they need to find out what Starbucks is doing to assist Monsanto, and seeing the people of Vermont present labeling on GMOs. Sometimes people aren't happy with the actions you up there on city council take, and I think sometimes you're justified in doing whatever you want, because we the people send you mixed messages.
 So I'm really saying this mostly to encourage the people sitting behind me and listening on television that when you think an issue is important, if it happens to be the labeling of GMOs and your actions are not consistent on that issue, we can't really complain about how public policy holders are working.
 I think recently you all had the federal legislative agenda meeting last week, and of course not very many of us have much hope for the federal activity given the new Congress. But I do want to encourage you to focus more on the state legislative agenda, and we've already heard about the $15 minimum wage issue and also –
 improving health care. I hope that all of you will have candid conversations among yourselves. Even though we never want to see the people at Moda become unemployed, we really do want to have an equitable health system. And so I hope that you'll keep that in mind and look for ways to make that happen. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, item 51. Request of Randy Henry, a.k.a. Taz, to address council regarding right to dream to rest areas. Henry, you hear? Yes.
 Doesn't look like it. Okay, let's go on to 52 then, please. Request of Nathaniel M. Williams to address council regarding Americans with Disabilities Act complaint with county building. Mr. Williams? Okay, looks like he's not here either. Then let's move on to consent calendar. I believe we've got requests to pull two items, numbers 68 and 69.
 Any other requests to take items off consent and pull them to the regular calendar? If not, then let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay, time certain, item 53. Will we be taking the pulled at the end of the regular agenda? No, at the end of the regular or after the time certain? After the time certain. After the time certain.
 Item 53, accept report from Portland Public School District on disproportionate discipline. Thank you. Well, let me call up our honored guests here to make this presentation. And with just a brief explanation, why should the Portland City Council have a public hearing on disproportionate discipline in the public schools and a strategy to deal with it? And I would have three answers to that question.
 One, the city charter actually has a wonderful provision in it that says that the mayor and council should exercise a general supervision of all the affairs of the city, which means we should pay attention to what's happening in the community, even if it's not our direct governmental responsibility. And we do, as a city, do that. And this is one of those instances. Okay.
 Secondly, this city council and our predecessors have really focused on equity, and it's why we have an Office of Equity and Human Rights. It's why we put a lot of attention into equity as a community, and this is an equity issue that we need to pay close attention to. Then additionally, this particular issue is one that the school district has a very aggressive plan to address, and I was so impressed.
 by the presentation that I asked them to essentially replicate here for us this morning when Alonzo made it to our Community Peace Collaborative, formerly known as the Gang Violence Task Force, a couple weeks ago. So I appreciate your willingness, Superintendent and Alonzo, to come here today and make this presentation. And then finally, by happenstance, some of us were in a conference on Friday today
 called the What Works Conference, and it's a conference about the criminal justice system that the local public safety coordinating committee puts on.
 and that heard an amazing presentation from Dr. Robert Anda, who was the chief author of the ACES study, the Adverse Childhood Experiences Study. Commissioner Novick and I were both there, heard this presentation, and an hour of this man's presentation was just enough to whet my appetite because that study demonstrates to me scientifically and unassailably that
 that there is a ironclad connection between what happens to young people at an early age and the likelihood that they will have difficulties later on, including showing up in our criminal justice system, which men of color do particularly disproportionately. Thank you.
 So we're in the public safety business. If we want to get upstream, we ought to think about these issues. And fortunately, we have some school district leadership that are thinking about them and preparing to act decisively. So I wanted to give them the opportunity to put that situation and their strategy before us and hopefully for us to be an effective ally for their work.
 so superintendent smith lonzo poe and anyone else from your team uh welcome and really glad that you could be here this morning morning good morning so carol smith superintendent and um i just mayor hales and commission were really pleased to be able to come and do this report and appreciate deeply the partnership with the city and um in the work that we're doing as you know
 Equity has been a primary focus and driver for Portland Public Schools. In 2010, our board passed an equity policy, which has really been our guiding framework. And then this fall, we set three priorities, which are anchored in that framework. The first is we want every single one of our third graders reading at grade level by the time they leave third grade.
 believing that that changes the experience for them for the whole rest of the time they're in Portland Public Schools, and that our best shot at closing the achievement gap is doing it early. Second was around exclusionary discipline. And our goal, we've set an aggressive target over the next two years to cut our exclusionary discipline by 50%, so that's suspensions and expulsions.
 50% overall, and then again, 50% the disproportionality of students of color being excluded from school.
 And then our third goal is to accelerate our graduation and completion rates, both four-year and five-year. Over the last, since 2007, we have increased our graduation rate by 14 percentage points, getting us to 67%. It's still not high enough, although that's an incredible increase in that time period. The comparable time period or statistic for the state in that same time period is 2%.
 So we're looking at accelerating strategies that we know work that graduate kids on time. The only other context I want to provide to you is that we've got a strategic plan that looks at the strategies for all of our students, an equity plan that really targets our students of color and trying to really do very personalized strategies that meet their needs. And now as of last June we signed on to
 Males of Color Pledge with the Council of Great City Schools as part of Barack Obama's My Brother's Keeper. And it's very compatible with the Black Male Success Initiative that the city is doing. And part of what our effort is here, it's with the 67 other large urban school districts in the country. We went and stood with Obama as he rolled out the My Brother's Keeper. And it's really asking...
 all of us to look very personally at what strategies work for our males of color because the gap there is even more significant so that's the context i want to provide you i just want to say the other uh appreciation for the blackmail success initiative or blackmail achievement initiative and also for your partnership on coaching boys to men we were just at a a pal basketball showcase on saturday and what took something that
 You guys are helping us support and take something that's been a successful program at Franklin with our male athletes and taking it system-wide, and you guys are really primary support in helping us provide that training. But those kinds of things that are very specific and personal strategies matter. So thank you for your partnership. With that, Lorenzo Poe.
 Let me turn it over to Sarah Singer because one of the things we want to set the frame by letting you see some of the data points which drives our strategies and also has driven the superintendent to identify, particularly in exclusionary discipline, the reason that becomes such a high strategy level for us. So let me turn it over to Sarah, walk you through some of the data, and then I'll come back and talk about some of our key strategic efforts to address the issue. Thank you.
 Great. Thanks, Lorenzo. Again, my name is Sarah Singer, and I'm the Senior Director of our System Planning and Performance Unit, which, among other things, includes all things related to data at PPS.
 Before I start presenting on the data, one thing I want to make sure is that we're operating under the same understanding of what exclusionary discipline means. So in this context, when I talk about exclusionary discipline, I'm talking about students who've either been expelled or students who've been suspended. And in most of these slides, it will be students who have experienced an out-of-school suspension, meaning that they have been asked to leave the school building for a finite period of time.
 so one of the there's many reasons to care about our discipline rates and our disproportionality one of the most critical reasons is that it directly correlates with our graduation rate so what we know is that students who've been excluded who have never been excluded at pps have a 68 graduation rate of a four-year graduation rate but students who've been excluded
 At least once, their graduation rate drops to 43%. And students who've been excluded between two to five times, their graduation rate drops to 34%. And then finally, students who've been excluded between five and ten times, their graduation rate drops to 20%.
 We've been tracking our exclusionary discipline for a number of years, and if we were to look at sort of where we were as a district in 2007 and 2008, approximately 7% of our students experienced at least one exclusion. And last year, 3.3% of our students experienced one exclusion. So we are trending in the right direction over time.
 However, when we look at our African-American or black population, in 2007, it was about 18% of our students experiencing at least one exclusion. And last year, we were at 10.5%. So, again, we're making fewer of our African-Americans are getting excluded. However...
 If you look at that green line, when we look at our white population in particular, you'll see that last year 2.3% of our white population experienced an exclusionary incident. You compare that to our black population at 10.5%. What you're looking at is our black population experiencing exclusion in comparison to our whites at about five times the rate. Nationally, we see it around two to three times, so there is an issue here in Portland.
 Are you tracking other minorities? Yes. So I just, in this slide, I just put the black population. But this next slide, we're looking at other groups as well. And we see disparities in other racial ethnic groups. The native population is our second most excluded group, particularly.
 Our black populations are first. And so you can see in this slide how disparities break out by racial ethnic groups. One thing I want to comment on this slide is that in this one, I've included in-school suspensions. So in-school suspension as well as out-of-school suspensions. So in-school suspensions are where a student has an incident –
 It's a violation. They're not sent home, but they're taken away from the classroom and still in the school building. It's just another way to define exclusion. But here's what I'm going to tell you. There's a lot of different ways to measure exclusionary discipline. You can look at days missed.
 You can look at incidents. You can look at percent of students excluded. You can include in-school suspensions or not. Regardless of how you cut the data, you're going to see our black population followed by our native population who experience the greatest percentage or who experience the greatest amount of discipline. Thank you.
 in our system, regardless of how you cut that data. And do you track it based on African immigrants versus African Americans? We did do a study this year on that, and what we saw was our African immigrants have a disproportionate amount of experience, disproportionate amount of incidents in comparison to whites, but our African Americans experience the most. Okay.
 And so we also disaggregate the data by gender and race. And so what we see is our black male followed by our native males, followed by our black females experiencing the most amount of exclusion. And there is definitely a gender component here, because you can see after our black females, it's a host of males of color who then experience the next most.
 And if you keep going here, you'll see our white females and our Asian females experience the least. What I will also tell you is we've done this type of analysis for three straight years, and it's interesting because for three straight years, black males are on top, followed by native males, followed by black females, in that order for three straight years.
 So this data was something that All Hands Raised, the Eliminating Disparities Collaborative produced. And what they looked at is the number of discipline incidents for what's called disruptive behavior per 100 students. And disruptive behavior, how that's defined is things like violation of school rules, insubordination, disorderly conduct,
 You might say that those are sort of more subjective offenses. They tend to be more up to the interpretation of an adult. So that's what is meant in this case. That's what they included in disruptive behavior. Okay.
 And so this is a slide that compares PPS to other districts in Multnomah County. And so there's a couple of interesting items to note in here. One is that you're going to see quite a spike in exclusionary incidents when you get to middle school, and that follows national trends. Okay.
 You're also going to see that PPS is not alone in this challenge, that there are other districts in Multnomah County who are experiencing similar challenges. PPS is sort of excluding students at similar rates in middle school, a little lower in high school, a little higher in elementary for this type of offense. Okay.
 But Park Rose has zero in elementary schools. Yeah, that was the data that was provided to us, and we need to kind of go back and look at that. So it'd be interesting to know if they have a policy about discipline in elementary schools. Yes. Because that's, to me, an encouraging step right there to have zero.
 The other thing we know is that disproportionate exclusion by race is present for our four- to eight-year-old student population. So this begins at pre-K through third grade. And we know that our – we see that disproportionate –
 Discipline beginning very young with our black students experiencing 5% of them experiencing an exclusionary incident in comparison to 2% of our white students. We have a similar pattern with the native students at this age. So just to summarize, exclusionary incidents have been decreasing at PPS since 2007. Black students followed by native students experienced the greatest percentage of exclusionary incidents ever.
 African American and Native males are excluded at the highest rates in particular. Exclusionary incidents have been decreasing for black students since 2007. However, the relative rate of exclusionary incidents between African American and white students has not improved over time. And we know this disproportionate exclusionary discipline begins at a very young age.
 And so, Lenzo eventually is going to talk about some of our supports that we have in place and some of our strategies to address this issue. But one thing we're also focusing on, quite simply, is just the notion of accountability. And so, we have set system-wide reduction targets, as Superintendent Smith alluded to, very aggressive ones. And every school also has targets. So, we specifically are looking at measures
 measuring incidents and students excluded, and we are seeking to cut that in half.
 And then the other thing to note is because the goal is both to reduce exclusion by 50%, but also to reduce the disparity or that disproportionality by 50%, what that really means is that we have to improve with our historically underserved populations at a more aggressive or faster rate. And so you're really looking at having our historically underserved populations reduced by 60%.
 And as I said, every school has a target that's aligned to the system-wide target. And the supervisors of those schools meet monthly with school principals to review their progress on that target, as well as the other priorities that the superintendent had laid out previously. And with that, I'm going to hand it over to Lorenzo, who's going to talk about some of our key strategies. Thank you.
 Before you do that, could you give some specific examples of the kinds of behaviors that kids get excluded for? Yeah. So it could be, I mean, there's a large range. Disturbingly, for our four- to eight-year-old population, the number one offense is battery. And it's a weird term for a four-year-old.
 but that's an example of something violation of school rules could be you're not wearing you know your clothing correctly um maybe you're wearing a hat backwards i mean sometimes those can be um a violation for wearing their hats backwards well it wouldn't it would be over a progression of time
 I mean, it would be a number of incidents. For some of these detailed questions, I'd actually refer you to some of our program people. And again, you're looking at incidences where you're having fights in school. Fights, yeah. So you have some violence between students. You have altercations between staff and students.
 Those become the kinds of things kids are getting excluded for. So it runs the gamut. It is nothing that is singular. But as we start to look at what they are, when they occur, we're able to strategize for that and begin to address that. So...
 Clearly, a lot of issues of fighting between students, what we would call insubordination to staff, those kind of things build up over time. Kids are sent out of school. So those become the kind of things kids are excluded for. Of course, when you have weapons or guns brought into a school, that is mandatory reason for exclusion. So you do see those things.
 do you have that data summarized somewhere yes and could you send us a link to this report because i didn't have any anything coming into this but i think all that data is really uh useful i assume it's on your website um yes we have we have that data we don't have this presentation on our website but we can get it up there thank you once once it's up if you can send me the link i'll post it on my front page great thank you
 Right. Alonzo, please. Well, let me start by thanking you, Mr. Mayor, for having us here. One of the things that I really appreciate this morning is the framework and context that you set for the reason that we're here.
 Clearly, we agree that this issue of student achievement disparities and particularly disparities in students of color isn't one that is just a district issue. It really requires support, collaboration, and participation of our communities, jurisdictions, and others because, again, the consequences of what happens is seen and shows up in a variety of systems, a variety of places. So let me thank you and the Council for having us here.
 I want to reiterate that part of what we look at for this disparities, the exclusionary piece is a 50% reduction overall, a 50% reduction in discipline, in exclusionary discipline. And for us, as we look at the disparities in discipline, it really is vested in what is happening to African Americans and what is happening to Native American youth. But we understand it from a strategic standpoint. And what best practices tells us is that you really have to build.
 an environment and a culture in a school that is inclusive, that is supportive, and that is restored. We look at best practices across the country, positive behavioral support intervention, which is a framework that really talks to students about how do you, in fact, engage every student, family, and staff in understanding the rules and regulations.
 Some things that sound kind of routine, that kids understand what is expected of them, is not always the case. We have to make sure students understand what is expected of them, and they need to understand, and staff needs to understand, what is expected of them and what is that environment like. So PBIS gives us that framework.
 We also build into that framework this notion of restorativeness, because what happens in the process of exclusion, particularly for kids of color, is a violation and severing of a relationship. We are here to build relationships with students, so what happens when those relationships are impaired? We need to find a way to restore that.
 to build an environment and a climate in school where it really is about restoring, repairing, and bringing students back into the classroom because we can't get students to graduation if we're not in school. And making sure that we understand that this really is about restoring students
 Building in that restoration opportunity for staff, students, and community to really be a part of a process that says this is important in class and we recognize things happen, but how do we then give back in a way that restores and it becomes a meaningful lesson for young people and staff?
 We're including our community in that because it's important that our community, that all our partners who are in the building and parents who come into the building understand that it is a culture and it will be what Portland Public needs to be in order to build a kind of climate where you don't see the kind of disparities based upon some of the things that we know that we can begin to address and to restore. Thank you.
 But we also understand, at least for Portland as we look at this issue, that the issue historically has been ingrained in an issue around race and culture. You have a tremendous disparity between African Americans and Native Americans. So if you understand it, then how do you really begin to address the issue of race and ethnicity? And from a cultural dynamic, how is that impacting the system?
 We've been involved in courageous conversations on race for a number of years, and part of that, we have a collaborative action research for equity process, where really is where you foundationally get at how you look and talk about practices and what's going on in the classroom, how the peer-to-peer teachers begin to look at practice and data about what is occurring with them and their students as a way to begin to address and understand from a cultural standpoint
 What are the kind of nuanced differences we, in fact, need to be doing in our schools in order to address this disparity? Interesting note, we were in Wisconsin with the Council of Great City Schools, and we were having these conversations. All districts had talked about the issue of PBIS. They talked about restorative justice. Just Sunday in Oregon, there was an article about restorative justice as a practice and really building those kind of practices to restore and maintain relationships in the school.
 But as we look at everybody's data, this issue of race continued to crop up, and the conversation becomes, if you do not understand from a cultural standpoint, if you do not understand the cultural nuances, you can't begin to address it just with just good programs. So for us, we've aligned and integrated the three concepts to make sure that in the school climate, we're addressing the framework that talks to kids about what is expected in a restorative way, with a recognition that race—
 and ethnicity and culture manifests itself in different ways. And so for us to understand that and work amongst is a central piece of what we do. We're also providing for our staffs the courageous conversation on race training for every staff member. Begin to look at and address your racial consciousness and understanding how it manifests itself potentially in the work that we do.
 Also, the revision of our student discipline and conduct document. We need to have the framework of the documentation that in fact is the governing piece that students and staff begin to understand their expectations in a way that really address the concept of restoration. We want to be a restorative district. It really talks about maintaining, building, and continuing relationships. And when there is some disruption in that relationship, how do you restore that?
 that because we are a district that paramount is student achievement and making sure the students achieve the other piece which is part of
 Commissioner Friend is asking about the data is really refining, improving our data ability. We want to have the capability to understand where are the incidents occurring and the doing day in the school. How do we collect the data? How is it real-time data that staff and administrators can begin to use so that you can begin to structure and strategically align what you do to support and intervene so that you're not in the position of excluding children for the kind of behaviors that we don't want to happen.
 We're also partnering with families to develop the school climate. We know in every document and every research says that you cannot begin to really truly address what is happening in schools and our communities without families involved. How do you bring families in? How do you do it in a culturally responsive way? And how do you bring communities to the table so that they're a part of the participation of the plan that addresses their students?
 discipline, the student's behavior, and the expectations of both parts. You really have to make sure that you're building that in. In particular communities, we have the challenge of making sure that we're getting parents to the table and participating because we all know how critical that is, so we're partnering with our community partners and other entities to help make that transition available to us and interacting with broader community to make that happen.
 And we want to support students at the earliest signs of concern. As you see from the data, one suspension from the data ends up demonstrating that you have a 43% chance of graduation. And the earlier it is occurring, the less likely it is that now you have a child, a three-year-old being suspended, who's already starting off their journey with an expectation statistically that only 43% of them will graduate. That is not acceptable. So how do we intervene in that regard?
 What are the processes? What are the steps? How do we ensure that teachers have the kind of tools that says that if I am having a disruption in the classroom, what are the kinds of places where they can go and begin to get tutorials, be supportive, and ensuring that what we do is restore that relationship and get them back into the classroom as quickly as possible. And because we were making sure that a restorative...
 Climate in a school is shared by everybody in the building. In the district, we have a number of outstanding partners. We have the Sun System, which is a part of our schools. We want to train and maintain all the people in the building who interact in our schools around restorative practice and restorative justice so that you have the entire community of a school grounded in restorative practice and climate and what those key strategies are.
 Lastly, the other piece that we have to continue focusing on, our racial equity and education policy focuses on looking at the chronic achievement gap for black, brown, and red students. That is what we're seeing under disparities data. But we have to also understand that it's important to note because often this gets lost in any of our discussions. Since 2007, exclusionary discipline has gone down in the district, including for kids of color, just not as rapidly as it used to be.
 for our black and red students. So we have to find a way to build upon those things that we know are working and accelerate from a cultural place the closure of that gap. And we believe that looking at that, isolating that, and being very focused, very specific about strategies for African American males, Native American males, is the approach that it takes to do.
 Part of that for us, we're going to employ three student assistant coordinators who become the bridge between schools, families, community, students, who are able to, in fact, work with, understand the culture. We have identified a student assistant coordinator who will focus on a caseload of African Americans.
 We're not saying exclusively that it will only be African-Americans, but their focus will be African-American population and understanding the cultural nuances that it brings. One will be to look at and address the issues with a caseload of Native American students. The third will carry a general population because again, our strategies and concepts have to cover the entire district as we're going to reduce discipline by 50 percent for
 But we're also more important to talk about from a cultural standpoint, how in fact are we bringing people into our building. We talk about African American students and recognition that in our schools we have African American young men who go through their entire school career without ever having an African American male teacher, who have go through their entire experience without ever really having a meaningful relationship with an African American male in the building.
 How can we bring African-American males into a building to support students and teachers and families? We are contracting with an organization to help us begin to bring African-American males into the building. We've seen it as a present to help mediate a place where, in fact, when students, particularly males, have challenging issues that they see no one that looks like them to talk to, we want to make that available.
 because we know what happens when we do that. And we've asked a number of organizations to be a part of that, because recruiting and maintaining the level of volunteers that help us make that happen, we believe is an outstanding opportunity for our community to come to work with us. We also recognize students who, in fact, often have challenging traumatic issues in school that manifest themselves in exclusion. There's tremendous leadership potential.
 How do we take that? How do we begin to work with those kids around leadership and begin to turn around and stimulate them in a very cultural way? So we're looking at organizations, the contractor, and can in fact come in and begin to talk about,
 what it takes to lead, what it takes to understand why it's important to be in school, why it's important that when you have challenging issues, you don't act out in the classroom, you deal with it at other places. So we're looking at very specific organizations who have a history of working with our populations that we've identified. We also recognize that what happens in exclusion and what happens in school oftentimes,
 is the break in the relationship and there is a lot of healing that needs to occur within communities. Because when you suspend or expel a student, it has dramatic impact on not just the student, but the family. So we look at the healing circles, which we've been doing in a number of places across the district, but we want to increase the ability to have healing circles with our school community and our parents and community really address the issue about healing and make a school a place that belongs to the entire community
 The last one I'll mention is the issue around mental health. So much of what is talked about in our schools is a need to give mental health services to our students. But I do understand that from a cultural standpoint, particularly, and I'll say for African Americans, when you raise the issue of mental health, you have already set up a block for them, making them think that this is about, am I crazy? Right.
 No. When you put that block up because the concept of mental health isn't universally accepted, we want to engage with those mental health professionals who does not come at it in the traditional way. And when I say traditional, it's not just calling it mental health. We can call it counseling. But what you're getting at is the opportunity to build a foundational relationship
 and then do begin to do the kind of assessments that needs to happen from a mental health standpoint to get children and families the kind of service if they're needed and necessary. So that's the short overview of what our strategies are. We're prepared to take questions we have with us, those experts who actually do the work, here that can answer any questions in the level of specificity you may need. Thank you very much. Questions, council members? Questions. Thanks for your excellent presentation.
 A couple of observations with the question attached. When I was principal for almost a day recently, I was at Woodlawn, and Woodlawn is about 50% African American, 50% Latino. And so first question is, does the data around disparities, is it different in schools that are majority-minority? Okay.
 versus a school like Ainsworth where the white population is so much larger? Do you see differences based on the demographics of the school that you're looking at? Or are you still looking at aggregate data? You know, honestly, it depends on the school. We have 87 schools, and I think you –
 I think, honestly, regardless of the school, you do see patterns of our black and our historically underserved students being excluded at higher rates in general. There are sort of these outlier schools that are really doing a fantastic job and have closed those. We've identified some of those schools. But, again, as a general rule, we see exclusion. That leads to the second question, Carol, which is,
 what i learned in woodlawn is that lots of kids are not coming to school ready to learn and so there's a big focus on the non-cognitive side of the equation and that's because they're coming from households where there's enough stress or living in areas where there's enough stress but the kids are not physically they're not coming to school in the right disposition and so this focus on non-cognitive skills
 Is that part of your approach to help kids be prepared to learn and addressing some of the challenges they bring into the classroom from their home and their neighborhood? It's both part of our focus, and it's also part of our focus with partners in terms of meeting us where we need to be met. But we're focused on building an attendance support. So in some of our clusters, we've started to pilot having people whose sole focus is supporting attendance. Okay.
 We've got more focus on trying to do, we added counseling support last year in all of our schools, and that will be a focus in our budget again this year is having adults in the building who are able to focus on counseling. We do, we've had conversations with the ESD about increasing nursing support and looking at just the impact that can have in terms of dealing with the other issues kids come to school with.
 And we also rely on our community network or support from our Sun Systems and others who really can begin to engage with students in ways that we can as an institution, being prepared to go home, helping kids understand and get access to those kind of things.
 for a family that can stabilize them and help kids come to school ready to learn. And the last thing I would just say on that is from a staffing standpoint in terms of resource allocation, we have an equity allocation, and schools can use that equity allocation as they see fit to meet the unique needs of their school. And on top of that, we have another set of resources for schools that are considered what we call focus and priority schools, and so these schools are the schools who are kind of
 lower achieving according to the state standards. And in that allocation, we specifically call out a menu of services
 supports that schools can select from, and that includes social service workers and that sort of thing. The other thing I'll just share with you is I once spent a day with Tamela Newsom, and I'll never forget one experience, and that was where I was in her office and a young man, a young kid, a boy, was referred to her office for a significant disciplinary violation.
 And this young man had all kinds of issues, and it was very clear even for me just observing. And she chose not to send him home, and he was abusive towards her. And so I kind of closed the door with her and said, you know, maybe I'm just old school, but, you know, when I was that age, the boom would be lowered. You know, why are you going the extra mile? And she said, well, you have to understand what it means to exclude this child who is maybe, what, second or third grade or something. Mm-hmm.
 She said that there are sometimes two people at home. One is in the sex trade, and the other one is an abusive male. And she said, I have to balance putting that young person back in an unsafe environment versus maybe doing an in-school exclusion and having him sit in the conference area and keeping my eye on him. But I have to consider the impact on him of sending him back to an unsafe place.
 That was just mind-boggling. I think that was, for me, kind of eye-opening about this whole issue of exclusions and how you balance the need for discipline and accountability with the particular needs of an individual child.
 It's tough enough to be a young person in our society to have that additional burden and to not be able to go home to a safe place is just unbelievable. It places unbelievable burdens on administrators and teachers. It was very eye-opening to witness that exchange. Thank you for calling that out.
 The thing I'd like to just put attention on here is this is part of the value of our partnerships with culturally specific service organizations as well, who may have a whole set of services that the family is taking advantage of and have relationships with the family that go over time. So they're not just about a school year. They may be relationships that start when the student is in second grade and go –
 and the whole family is involved. So us being in partnership with one of those organizations that's involved with a family totally expands our ability to really address the needs that are going on in a home or with a student. And we have numbers of those, and we have worked to really deepen those relationships. And some of our schools have, and again, it varies school to school, but Latino Network, ERCO, SEI, MAYA,
 all totally expand our capacity to really meet the needs of a whole child and a family. But you address something, Nick, that really points to us why it is important for us to keep our kids in school, engaged in school, because not only would the student...
 likely be going home to an environment that isn't good, it's most more likely they're not even going to go home. They end up in the street. And that's where you begin to develop the prison pipeline. Because a child who's out in the street, no school to go to, often gets involved in things that are less than desirable. And they end up getting into activities that end up manifesting themselves in other systems that other people have to be responsible for. So really for us to figure out and maintain and develop the kind of intellect and strategies
 to keep our kids in school and engaged is the one that we have to be focused on. Who makes the decision to expel or suspend a student?
 The principal makes the decision to make the suspension. And, again, as Sarah talked about, there are these goals by which we're asking principals to pay attention to, also to begin to involve the senior director in some of those critical decisions. The senior director is ultimately the principal's supervisor.
 If you're talking about expulsion, that is to be reviewed by the senior director and up to the latter to looking between the assistant superintendent for school performance and the chief equity officer's office. And we review those kind of issues, but it is generally the principal with guidance, support, oversight from the senior director and the assistant superintendent. Okay.
 That's actually been a change. So that's a change in our policy. In previous years, it was just the principle, and now we have more stringent guidelines around that. Other questions, comments? What are the policies and or strategies you've used to reduce the exclusion rates as much as you have in the past several years?
 A lot of reliance on PBI, our positive behavioral support intervention, has been a process that we've undergone for the last few years, building that climate and culture. Restorative justice, we have a number of restorative justice programs
 coordinators in our schools that are helping in suspension and expulsion, a number of student assistant coordinators really to begin to intervene. And care is when you're really working with teachers around their practice and looking and examining what it is that they're doing. And often teachers don't recognize...
 And they don't recognize there are other strategies and options, so beginning to develop those things, which is why when we looked at the menu of what we've been doing to begin to see it, we've incorporated and expanded on a number of those and included things that were very culturally focused and specific.
 First, thank you, Mayor, for bringing this report, and I request that we have a similar one from Park Rose and from David Douglas, because I think this is very important work. And thank you all for coming to present and for doing the work. I'm wondering about the restorative justice program. Do you contract with Resolutions Northwest for that? And is it in all schools? Yes.
 No. We've done a couple of things. We do contract with Resolution Northwest even as we're expanding. We're also going to bring on board a restorative justice coordinator whose job will be to help train our folks, and we're also looking at expanding it as we go forward. But again, the theory is it's really looking at where we need to make the immediate impacts, make sure we get restorative justice coordinators and are the practices in place, and expanding it out.
 Right, and I certainly support the training of everybody on what the concepts are. I think also there are many advantages to having an outside agency helping with that rather than somebody in the school. Yeah.
 Over the 17 years that I was a Portland Public School parent, we cut every year. And I, as a parent, was clamoring for more classroom teachers. When I first attended kindergarten roundup back in 1985, I was given the card of the elementary school counselor. I think by the time we got out in 2008, there was one counselor per 400 in high school.
 What's the current staffing of just your regular routine counselors who might be able to intervene before things get to the expulsion set? So as of this budget, so I'm going to tell you this is the first year since I've been superintendent I'm heading into my eighth year that we haven't cut and
 And we actually added capacity. So our counselor ratio at the high school level is 1 to 300 now, which is significant. And then we also added counseling capacity to every school. So some schools may only have a half counselor, but they have a half, and they previously had none. So, like, as of this year, every one of our schools has counseling presence. And it will be, again, something we look at as we're going into this budget cycle of whether we can add more capacity there. Okay.
 It makes a huge difference. It does. It makes a huge difference. And it's the kind of thing that as a parent, until you need it, you don't realize that it's important. But it certainly is important. It makes a huge difference. And I think it can help with that whole development of the school culture to have the counseling staff. So if you need me to come and talk to PTAs about what I learned over the course of my time as a parent, I'd be happy to do that. Have you made any specific policy changes or stated expectations for teachers and principals that explicitly set out your expectations on discipline? No.
 We've just actually done one round of revision to our discipline handbook, which is a conversation between the district and the union. It's a collaborative conversation about what those changes are, and I anticipate that we'll – and some of that was just bringing us into compliance, but it's also decriminalizing language issues.
 in terms of how we talk about discipline. And I anticipate more revisions in the years to come. So that'll be part of the project that we're still engaged in. I was thinking of something like we're not going to exclude kids in elementary school. So one of the things we're looking at with the Portland Parent Union is the concept of a moratorium that is something that they're involved in a national movement to do moratoriums.
 They've been working with us on figuring out what is a moratorium that could make sense, such as do you say at the low, you know, pre-K-2 that you will not exclude? Do you pick subjective offenses like insubordination, as Lorenzo was referencing, where you say we won't exclude based on subjective, a subjective offense. We haven't actually identified which one it'll be.
 But as part of our ability to meet the targets that we've set, we've said we'll engage in figuring out where's a place that we realistically believe a moratorium would be an effective stake in the ground. Yeah, I think setting parameters like that and making it very clear.
 We've been looking at our data down to the classroom, each individual school, individual offenses, individual classrooms, and really trying to make sense of, okay, where would a strategy like a moratorium make sense for us that would really be a lever that helps. And you mentioned the compliance with the state law that requires that all non-expulsion opportunities should be explored before expulsion is done. How are we complying with that?
 That, again, is a part of the menu of options and strategies we have for schools to, in fact, exercise prior to moving to levels of exclusion or expulsion. And that is part of the conversation and expectations that our senior directors are handing down to principals and having their discussions and in schools so that they know what's available to them and what's required before you move to that level of discipline.
 And I would assume that after a student is expelled, that student is still the community's responsibility to educate, right? Are you then required to find them alternative placements at an alternative school? Yeah. We do. We work with them to find an alternative placement, MESD or alternative school. Yes. And is there a timeframe that you're required by state law to find them another placement?
 Or to offer them another placement? Or a policy that you have? Hang on, I'm going to let Rick Kirschman come up. Good morning, Council. I'm Rick Kirschman, Program Director for School Climate and Discipline.
 And generally, yeah, our policy is to reconnect students to what we would call a CBO or a charter-based organization within a timely fashion. So we have a group, a department that focuses on that. So it's part of the expulsion process as kids are connected to another school as soon as possible.
 Something that maybe you're looking at already, but I would encourage you to, is instead of having a category of expulsion, which then is like being on a criminal record and is going to follow the kid and is a label for the kid, is to have a transfer policy. I mean, if there has been an incident such as a student bringing a weapon into school, then that's probably not going to be a good placement for that student.
 regardless of the discipline. But if you were to have a transfer policy or some kind of a mandatory transfer where you find them an alternative placement and do the counseling and immediately get them into another alternative situation, it seems to me that that would be a better way to avoid them dropping out and to be more careful about how the incident that the child made a mistake
 is handled so that that mistake does not then follow them and direct them into the criminal justice system. Thank you. That's a good point. Thank you. Any other questions for the team? Thank you very much for being here today. We'll see if there's any citizens that want to comment on this report before we accept it. The primary goal here was just for the council to hear this and have this great discussion. So thank you very much for being here.
 Anyone want to speak on this item? We have two people, Joe Walsh and Tanya March. Okay, come on up, please. Okay, Mr. Walsh, you're on first. My name is Joe Walsh, and I'm just speaking for myself today. It would be really easy to embrace this entire concept and presentation that you just received, because if you look at it, it sounds really good.
 mentoring and equity for the employees. And we have to figure out a way of using softer language, like exclusion instead of expulsion. Expulsion is a very powerful word. Exclusion is kind of like, you know, come back later. I listened very carefully to this.
 And I was struck by something that happened to me 40 years ago. I was sitting in a political science class in college and heard the same things. And all of you are college graduates, and you heard the same things. You've heard about mentoring. You heard about equity. It might not have been the key word. We didn't use the word pardoning. That's the new word. Everybody wants a pardon with somebody.
 All I'm saying to you is this is process. When it gets down to the students, you need to ask the questions like Commissioner Fritz asked how many students to a counselor. You know how important that is? If you have 300 students to a counselor, how long does it take to get to see a counselor?
 If you have 40 students in a classroom and none of you ask that question, how many kids are in the classrooms? I think it's in the 30s, high 30s, if I'm right. That's important. And the superintendent just got a 23% raise. And I'm saying this individually, not as representing any organization.
 that the three people that gave you this presentation are failures. If you looked at those stats, 12% in the black community that are getting expulsion, what percentage of the black community is in our schools? I know it's 6% in Portland. I don't know the percentage in the schools, but I would guess it's small.
 So that's an astronomical figure. Twelve percent doesn't sound so bad unless you take into consideration the small population of the African-American community. And nobody asked that question. Why not? Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Tanya March. I was here in City Hall today because my business partner, Mike Ryerson, passed away. And the obit in the Oregonian was only six words long.
 So people here in the community saw me and asked me if I could come up and speak on this issue because they know that I have personal experience. I'm afraid that Nick Fish's comments reinforce stereotypes about parents with children that have faced disciplinary practices within the school district. I think many of you have known me and know my expertise. You may not know the story of myself. I am a mother with two children with special ed children.
 their IEP. I'm on SPIAC, which is a Portland Public School board where parents with kids with IEPs have representation. Last week, SPIAC members have been told to come to the board meeting to testify. When I got there to testify, we were told that there was no places to testify. So part of this is just going to be me talking from that place that I had wanted to testify last week.
 I am worried about tokenism, reinforcing stereotypes, and typecasting at parents. My eldest son was sent home from kindergarten, he's now in seventh grade, 30 times. There was no record of this, and I did not realize that there was no record of this, until the behavior of him being sent home again repeated in third grade. In kindergarten, I lost my full-time job because I cannot maintain a job when I have no certainty that I'm going to have a place for my child to be.
 There was not reports of this behavior, and we're talking about children. We're talking autism behaviors. Large-sized classrooms, the neighborhood school would not even allow my child to enroll, which is why he ended up at an alternative school. You've met him. He is a bright young man. I am supporting my children. My second child, when I found out that he was diagnosed with autism, he is now a second grader. I really decided to focus on my children and my experience. Okay.
 And my experience is when we advocate for our children, our children are punished and we as parents are punished for our advocacy. And it harms and it makes a culture that you can't get to resolution. We can't solve problems. And I talk to other parents with children and we talk. And I sometimes wonder if Portland Public School doesn't realize that parents actually talk together and we share these stories. And it's heartbreaking. Right.
 When I talked to people that testified last night at the school board meeting that tried to testify the week before, and I found out that the cameras were turned off last night during the school board meeting and that a public comment was not accepted into the record. And that's like saying, well, you don't want to hear from us. And that hurts. And that's all I had to say. Thank you. And I'm sorry for the loss of your partner. And thank you for coming to tell of your personal experience. It takes a lot of courage. And it wasn't – this wasn't planned. Well, thank you. Thank you. Coming to the microphone to tell of your experience. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Johnson.
 Good morning. Again, for the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And I'm very glad that this report got delivered and that's being taken seriously. However, I think that we need to amp up the seriousness of this
 I think that what the citizens really want to see is next week we want to see the letters that the mayor or the city council has sent to the Paul Allen Family Foundation and to Mr. Phil Knight. The school district is going to need more resources than they think to fix this problem. In the state of Oregon, we have a small black population. A very small fraction of that population gets extremely rich from being trailblazers,
 and they want to engage with the community and give back. But I think that the success of this program is going to require that
 all five of you and then tomorrow the five county commissioners engage with the people who have resources and connections. If you engage with professional athletes who are people of color, they've successfully completed school. They've gone actually on to college. And however, we don't want to set forth a situation where athletics is the track of success. We need to find you and the woman who got the $20,000 or $30,000 raise for leading the school district.
 need to find African-American men who are working in science, technology, education, math, STEM workers, and
 There needs to be greater engagement and specific funding targets and time targets which weren't part of this report. So I look forward to hearing from you how you're going to work with Lou Frederick and Loretta Smith and how we're going to get men from the Trailblazers and players of color from the Portland Timbers and find mentoring relationships for these men and actually do something other than have a report that kind of perpetuates what some people would say, like Joe Walsh indicated, is bureaucraties. So...
 When we have this report, and you may have some of those intentions to cover some of those things I've already mentioned, but they didn't get put in the record, and they need to be verbalized. I'm a little bit disappointed that other groups that work with helping prevent crises, particularly in communities of color in our neighborhood, weren't included by the school district.
 When we have these situations that raise huge red flags about how our regular white patriarchy is traumatizing particularly people who are African American or immigrant African or Native American, we need to have people here from the Grand Ronde tribe.
 from the Urban League. The newly elected president of the local NAACP, Joanne Hardesty, is mostly focused on police protection, but one of the ways to reduce police encounters is to help build school success. So I hope that this report is the beginning of some additional hard work for you as you work particularly with leaders who aren't white and we diversify the face of Portland that's working on these problems. Thank you, Commissioners. Thank you. Good morning.
 good morning my name is lightning i represent lightning pdx rethink lab one of the things i want to emphasize i i do like the report and the speakers but one of the things i want to emphasize is i want to make sure that multnomah county health department will be involved in this whole situation when we're talking counselors when we're talking possibly mental health behavioral issues we need to have multnomah county
 brought to the table on these issues. They are the trained professionals. We need to have their input on this. Another issue I have on this is that when we're talking, do we have committees set up within these schools that before that individual is, say, excluded for a long term, do we have committees, say, from the neighborhoods, parents, that can actually have a say on that happening?
 It sounds to me like we're allowing one or two people to make the final decision. There are two sides to every story, and we want to have the side from also the individual being excluded, and we also want that to be put up in front of a committee to have an understanding of what the best direction to go on this. I'm very impressed with the – we're using the term restorative –
 We tend to have in this city with a lot of people, we're more worried about historic properties and restoring historic properties. We need to start looking at the people in this city and understand that that is where we need to direct our most attention. We need to create plans and go in that direction and understand that we need to focus more money in that direction instead of these historic properties that we think are so valuable throughout this city.
 And my last note on this is that, again, that mindset of restorative mindset, I absolutely agree with, and the people need to come first. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Schwab, good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good topic this morning regarding discipline. I'm wearing my former. You're leaving the record even though I put half of it in for you. Mary Ann Schwab. Thank you. Former job placement secretary with the school district, a job I dearly loved. I also worked very close, the first secretary, because of public law 94-142 with the motor development team. And I really know the system inside out and backwards. The troubling part all came with Measure 5.
 The 11 job placement secretaries were the first cuts, and they did keep our crime prevention, or our work in coordinators, and some of them were double, if not triple, our salaries. But on paper, it looked good. It looked like the district was cutting dollars. My concern, and I think Commissioner Fritsch just mentioned it, I heard it in passing when I was in her office, dropping something off, is that what happens when the discipline follows these students into adulthood? I was rebuffed when I challenged...
 the staff sending confidential reports on the fax machine and interoffice school students helping pull things off the fax machine and filing these documents into the teacher mailboxes i was concerned because some of it had to do with drugs alcohol counseling off campus those types of things my concern was what happens when this does go into adulthood and it affects their car insurance their life insurance their medical insurance
 even whether or not they could get into the military depending on what they were experimenting with
 On these early-leaver reports is when I challenged it a second time because their Social Securities for three years were going down. Well, as you bump from school to school, every school did it a different way. I called Salem, and because I trusted the person on the other end, he assured me that though public record, they would not let loose those Social Security numbers. So there's a lot of measures that could be checked, and I'm very, very concerned at some of these expulsions.
 When you expose a kid because he missed a red light taking a cigarette at a plant pantry, not knowing what that family situation is, that's trouble. When you have a 16-year-old in the front office crying, really upset, then that's when I jump and I go where angels fear to tread. The kid did stay in school. They did release that. And kids are not paper file holders. And your counseling, one, and you did it with arts in the school.
 There's one art teacher to 500 kids in two elementary schools. There's something wrong with this math. And now they're rescheduling the boundaries, I guarantee. Grant High School is a sacred one. Lincoln's a sacred school. And, well, I give up. I'm really, really upset with the boundary changes because when they took kids out of the Sunnyside Invalid Mental School with hearing-impaired kids, they'd been there 26 years already.
 and without any notification to the parents over the summer, said next year your kids go to Creston. That's after the building people came in and put flashing lights for fire drills. Somebody's not doing their job. And I think I agree with what Joe said. They all get F-. Thank you. Thanks very much. We have two more who have requested to speak. Okay, let's take two more and then a motion to accept the report. So call those up, please. Director James and Teresa Rayford. Good morning.
 Good morning. Welcome. Good morning, Council. Good morning, Mayor Hills. And I didn't want to make testimony. Just put your name in the record, Teresa. I'm here as a community member, as a parent advocate. And I didn't want to do testimony today. I actually came here to meet with someone in the mayor's office for another issue, but it's relative to this issue.
 And I knew that this meeting was going to happen, but I didn't know that it was today, so God is good. I did want to say, though, that one of the reasons that you don't see a lot of black people in the community coming out to things like this or standing up for themselves is because they've already been retaliated against for several years.
 Those parents' voices have been shut down by what we would call tokens or gatekeepers or people that are in appointed positions of power that absolutely look like myself.
 And whenever you have the people that are in power, in elected power, or in corporate power with the money, basically co-signing for people that are suggestive tokens or suggestive filters between the people's voice and the voice of the policymakers, then you're going to have a lot of discernment. And you won't have a lot of feedback from those people that count.
 The people that need to be here today, it should have been publicized that parents could come here and speak on the record regarding this, even if this is something that's kind of not what you guys deal with in City Hall. But I think that you would have gotten a lot of F-minuses. I think that if they wouldn't have turned off the stream last night, that you would have heard parents' voices.
 And all of those voices said that they're not being heard and that they feel like their inclusion in their children's ability to be successful coming out of school is necessary, but the engagement is not there. It's not there. We have these different organizations and these different agencies and these different proprietary partners that are there for those children. But you guys exclude the parents because you give them so much value over the parents.
 The parents, the teachers, and the children are the voices that you need to be talking to. Those are the people you need to listen to. Those are the people that you need to make a concert effort to get into a room with and have these discussions with.
 Those other people that get big raises, that have a job, that's their 9 to 5. Those parents, this is their future. Those children, this is their future. Those teachers, this is why they work. They don't go in there with a malicious intent to fail our children. But when there are systems in place that basically benefit from the failure of our children financially or by having some type of national accrete to popularity because of their success for granting an opportunity to,
 It devalues their needs, which is a successful life and not jail. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning, Director James. Good morning. Dante James. I'm the Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I just wanted to just come and make just a quick comment and, I guess, say thank you to PPS for the work that they are doing, the courageous work that they are doing. That doesn't mean it's done.
 in the same way my office is, I think, doing some good work, but we're certainly not done. Portland Public Schools is a big ship, and it's hard to turn a big ship quickly. And so at this point, I don't know that they mentioned the statistic, but almost every other child now in Portland Public Schools is a child of color, and that's who we're talking about. Say that again, please. Almost every other child in Portland Public Schools is a child of color, and that's who we're talking about. And that's...
 Not only our future, it's our present. And we don't have the luxury of failing those kids. And so this is a courageous effort, and it's a difficult-to-implement effort. And you can read the paper and go back all you want to and read the challenges and difficulties that PPS has taken and the attacks that it's had based on its courageous conversation and its equity work. And the individuals sitting in this room who've had to try to implement that
 But clearly you can see that there is movement and things are happening. And I think that is at least the essence of the message. We're not done. I know they're not done. They're working very hard. And Lolenzo is also a member of the Black Male Achievement Steering Committee and has the support of that in interacting with
 with the Black Male Achievement Initiative. And it will also be working toward trying to gain more data and push for policy changes and other things. But clearly, I think, at least as I see, there is movement, and the movement is in a positive direction, not a negative direction. So I just wanted to offer a quick congratulations for their work and, as I always do, challenge them to keep on working and make things even better. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. May I move to the parents?
 Talk to the parents. I move the report. Further discussion? Then a roll call on accepting the report, please. Fritz.
 Well, thank you again, Mayor, for bringing this report. Thank you to the presenters from Portland Public Schools for your obvious caring about this issue and your direct attention to it. And I know that you know that you can count on us to be good partners for you. And I do look forward to hearing from David Douglas and Park Rose as well, since those are the two other school districts that are entirely within the city of Portland.
 We need to fund education adequately at the statewide level. We should not be relying on philanthropists to donate. We had one year last year where the legislature dedicated as much as they could, and we need to continue to encourage them to do that. We are nowhere near back where we were in 1990 when Measure 5 passed, and that's why Vera Katz dedicated one-time money to Portland Public Schools from the school.
 at a time that it wasn't easy to do that. That's why the council spent money with one-time funding to buy parkland from Portland Public Schools, both to provide parks in parks deficient areas and to provide money for the schools. And this is why this council and the previous one dedicated money to the Resolutions Northwest Restorative Justice Program. That we have been recognizing that this is a problem. Superintendent Smith mentioned the 14% increase in graduation rates in just six years.
 Show me another school district who's been able to do that. And yet, as Director James said, we are certainly not done. My son, who graduated from Wilson High School, then taught at Marshall High School and the Madison High School in the Step Up program run by Open Meadow. And that's another program, Superintendent Smith is smiling because she was in charge of that program.
 It's a way to provide extra support to kids who are struggling or could be expected to struggle, and it's produced some phenomenal graduates of those schools.
 And so we need to be supporting those programs. I will continue to do so proudly. And it is absolutely, as the mayor pointed out, it is part of the purview of the charter for the city council to be involved in all of the affairs of the city, including the schools. It's also one of the reasons why I ran for city council, not for the school board, because I think that they have a tremendously difficult job with schools.
 Parents like the parent that I was for the 17 years that I was there, learning as I go along because your child does not come with an owner's manual nor does your school district. And Portland Public Schools was what?
 the structure that helped me learn what it was like to be an American citizen, what it was like to be a Portland public schools parent. And that too is the unseen challenge that your entire staff has. You're not just educating the students, you're educating families, you're bringing in everyone. And as Ms. Rayford said,
 suggested we need to make sure that we're including everyone in our discussions and not only inviting but making sure that we're going where people are listening or and going where we can listen to folks folks and hearing some hard truths about not being done yet and sharing the commitment that we're going to keep trying as hard as we can and we're going to be dedicating funding to this process so thank you for coming and i look forward to continuing to work with you
 Well, thank you, Charlie, for putting this on the agenda. Frankly, when I saw the agenda, I wasn't entirely clear why we were getting this presentation. And the other novelty or important point about our charter is it actually doesn't say that we have any direct responsibility over education.
 But I think the mayor understands and the council understands that if the young people that you're charged with educating are not successful, we're not going to be a successful city. So thank you, Charlie, for bringing this forward. Thank you, Lorenzo, for a very compelling presentation. You've been in the trenches for a long time fighting a good fight, and PPS is lucky to have you. Mayor, I...
 My wife's a teacher, and I have two kids who either are in or have gone through public school. And the best teacher for me, and I think you've shared this, the best teacher for you is actually being in the classroom, being in the school, and observing. And that's where I've learned some powerful truths about the challenges that we place on administrators and teachers. And it's a tough job, and everybody needs to be part of the solution. I actually think that serving on the school board is a tougher job than our job.
 because they don't have staff. It's a part-time job. At least we have a lot of resources backing us up, but I would argue it's almost a tougher job. And finally, I just want to acknowledge that we talk about why does it matter. My mother-in-law, because of her gender, was denied an education, so she never completed the sixth grade. It was just not expected in her community in the south of Spain that an education was valued, that an investment in her education mattered.
 And so she faced diminished possibilities in her life because of it. And she insisted that her eldest child get an education because of a first-rate public education and then college and graduate school. She's a professor now at Portland State University, my wife. One generation, a commitment to giving people opportunity. Thank you.
 The kids that you are educating are some days going to be either sitting up here or running bureaus or making leadership decisions in our community. So we all have a stake in their success. And, Mayor Hales, thank you for focusing our attention on this very important issue. Aye. Saltzman. Well, thank you, Superintendent Smith, Mr. Poe, Ms. Singer, for this excellent presentation. It is indeed laudable that you and the school board
 and our community are openly talking about these very vexing issues that can easily become uncomfortable conversations very quickly so i laud you for uh doing this and doing this in a very public manner and in a way that you're committed to reducing the number of suspensions or exclusions and i think the data indicates why we need to reduce those so that young people can be successful in life so thank you bye no fake
 I was really impressed by the progress you've made in reducing the number of exclusions across the board. That is something that I was not aware of, and I was equally impressed by the fact that you did not dwell on that, that what you're dwelling on is the disparities that do exist in the exclusions that are still going on, and you're committed to doing something about that. So I think that Director James put it very well. I really appreciated his comments, and I appreciate what you're doing and what you're trying to do and what you're doing.
 what you've told us here today. Thank you. Hi. Hales? Well, I want to thank the council for your energized interest in this report and in this discussion. I think it would be possible at first glance to look at the question of student success and then look at the city of Portland as a municipal corporation responsible for police, fire, parks, transportation, water, sewer, housing, and so on, and say, well, it's not our department.
 But, of course, it is our department because not only of that charter mandate that we pay attention to the community in general, but because we're doing some very specific things that will work better if this initiative by the school district is successful. We have an Office of Youth Violence Prevention, and our director, Antoinette Edwards, is here. Her work will succeed if our kids succeed.
 We have a youth services division in the Portland Police Bureau that puts school resource officers in each school, and they're an important ingredient in this work, and their understanding of how this needs to be done differently is important. So I'll make sure that they are active partners in the change that you're trying to make. We have an economic development agenda that says talent,
 is our future. In fact, we had an economic development consultant in this chamber a couple weeks ago who said the most important thing you can do as a city is education. There's some other things you ought to do, but do that first and well if you care about the future of your economy. So, of course, this is our department. Doing the right thing should always be our department, but it's specific in this case to the work that we actually do.
 And speaking of traditional city services, my thought occurred to me listening to you this morning that our school district leadership, the folks that were here today to speak, our superintendent, Walenzo, Sarah, you have a firefighter's instinct. Seen a little smoke and you're running towards the problems.
 And that's courageous and it's exactly the right instinct in this case. And instead of obfuscating it or keeping it out of public view, you're running straight towards the problem. And not only are you running towards the problem, but you're setting a very clear goal and putting numbers to that goal. That you're going to change this problem by this much this year.
 That sets a standard, I think, for a lot of us in public service, for how clear can we be about what we're going to hold ourselves to as a goal and what we're going to measure as success. So I really appreciate you being here this morning. I appreciate this work, this good discussion in our chambers, and the work that we all do together to make sure that you and therefore our kids succeed. Thank you very much. Bye. Thanks a lot.
 Okay, let's move on to our next time certain which is number 54 amend accessory short-term rentals regulations to allow multi dwelling structures multi dwelling development triplexes attached duplexes manufactured dwellings and houseboats Establish fee for accessory short-term rental permits in multi dwelling structures Okay
 I'm sorry, that's the next one, not this one. Let's read both. So this is a second reading. We can take a roll call on this and then take up the question of a friendly amendment on the other item. So roll call, please. Fritz? Yes.
 So I very much appreciate the efforts that have gone into this ordinance by members of the public, staff and community partners. I believe that the amendments that we made make it a better ordinance regarding safety and administration, including smoke alarms, the percentage of units allowed in apartment buildings and the ability of property owners and residents.
 managers to do their jobs and exercise their authority and responsibility. Of course, it remains to be seen how this will work out in practice, and we'll get some experience and continue working on it. And I'm pleased to vote aye. Fish. This has been a great discussion. And, Mayor and colleagues, I appreciate the way this particular ordinance was crafted and the amendments, and I was fully prepared to support it today. Thank you.
 until I got a number of communications from industry representatives explaining the number of reasons why they don't intend to comply with it. And I want to be very clear that the enforcement mechanism that we're about to take up as the second part of this has at its core a requirement that we have some reasonable life safety measures in place, including a functioning smoke detector alarm.
 In response to this, this is what industry representatives have told us. They have likened it to Big Brother. They have said that it is a violation of user privacy, that it's an overreach of government regulatory authority, that it is preempted by federal law, that it breaches constitutional rights, that the regulatory enforcement piece is overbearing, and that's the politest portion of the materials that I received.
 That does not give me, Mayor, the confidence that people understand that in allowing this activity, we expect that the guest's experience is safe.
 And if the industry is telling us that they want the right to do something, but they do not accept the responsibility to partner with us to make sure it's done safely, then I cannot in good conscience vote to expand the authority at this time until the industry says that they understand that safe dwelling units is our collective responsibility. And to hear, for example, that even the requirement that a platform verify safety
 that a host has a permit, which is a requirement of the law, represents somehow government overreach, to me is ridiculous. That argument applied to other parts of our economy means that we will be left without the tools to ensure reasonable life safety protections for our citizens. And you can just imagine any Internet-based platform could make the same arguments and undermine the ability of this council to apply community standards today.
 But let's be very clear. We are being told that it is a violation of privacy rights, federal law and constitutional protections to mandate that a platform, and that's the company that makes money by advertising these units, is required to verify that someone has a permit as operating legally. The converse is we are allowing something to occur
 where we know because 93% of the hosts out there are not in compliance with the law, we are essentially sanctioning behavior which we know puts guests in harm's way. It's the first time in my experience on council that we've been put into such a dilemma. And until such time as the industry comes in good faith and says, we want to be a partner in protecting guests who have a reasonable expectation of safety when they rent a room,
 then I'm not prepared to expand the scope of what we've already done in single-family residences, and I'm disappointed to have to cast this vote because I thought the second ordinance we're going to take up was reasonable and was proportional and reflected the spirit of doing this together. This is not New York State where the Attorney General has taken this industry to court. This is not other parts of the country where the...
 Welcome Matt has not been rolled out this mayor said we will welcome you subject to some reasonable regulations And I think it is a sad moment that we do not have partners willing to embrace a reciprocal relationship And so I'm compelled to vote no Well, thank you mayor for this fine piece of work and I'm happy to support these thoughtful amendments to title 33 as I've stated numerous times short-term rentals are happening in our community and
 and we need a way for residents to operate within safe and reasonable guidelines. I believe the second piece of the puzzle around multifamily buildings is a good step in this direction. Specifically, I'd like to thank Jackie Dingfelder and Matthew Robinson of your office for I know all the hard work that they have done on this piece, and I look forward to this being implemented in a timely fashion. Hi. Novick?
 I also appreciate all the work that has gone into this. I want to reiterate something I've said several times before, which is that I am concerned about the allegations that the existence of this short-term rental market will have an adverse effect on housing affordability. I don't think that that has been proven yet, but it is a concern. And what I hope is that over the next decade,
 year or so, we can look at data we can gather within the city and from other cities where there's an active short-term rental market and determine if, in fact, there is a meaningful adverse effect in housing affordability. And if so, my recommendation would be that we
 re-outlaw this practice, and that would mean that we would have to come up with the enforcement resources that so far have been lacking to prevent the practice. So I see this as an experiment, which I hope will work, but because of the concerns about housing affordability, I do see it as a replicable experiment. Aye.
 I want to thank Jackie Dingfelder and Matthew Robertson as well as folks from the Bureau of Development Services and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability who worked hard on this as well and folks in an advisory group who served us well. This is a proposal that's had a lot of robust community discussion and I think we've
 done a good job of trying to address a lot of concerns that have been raised about health and safety, about affordability, about being a responsible participant in the opportunity economy for our citizens. I think some of the testimony that we heard from people in our community who want to participate in this service was some of the more compelling testimony I've heard from my fellow citizens. And it was moving, I think, in a sense of
 telling us what that opportunity economy means. We still have a responsibility to regulate. We have a responsibility to protect neighborhood integrity and private property values, and I think we've made a good attempt here at balancing those. We can always make adjustments in the future, as Commissioner Novick said, if this for some reason proves to be a poor experiment or if there's changes that we have to make.
 I also want to reemphasize that on this multifamily piece, owners and landlords still have control of their buildings. Homeowners associations still have their role to play. We're not having the city supplant the role of private property owners here, and that's important. So I think we've created a workable system that's not overly onerous. It will require that people in the industry step up and follow the code and follow the rules and pay their taxes. We expect that.
 of every business in Portland, no matter whether it's an old economy quote unquote business or a new economy quote unquote business. And I have every expectation that Portlanders and people doing business in Portland will follow the law. But I think we've made good law here and I look forward to seeing it used effectively by everybody in our community. Thank you all for good work. Aye. Okay, item 55.
 amend transit lodgings tax to add definitions and clarify duties for operators for short-term rental locations. So this is the second reading, but I understand we have a friendly amendment. May I offer a friendly amendment if I could? In reviewing 6.04.040C, it reads as follows. Operators...
 It reads in relevant part, operators, which include booking agents, must provide all physical addresses of transient lodging occupancy locations within Portland city limits, and the related contact information, including but not limited to the name and mailing address of the general manager, agent, owner, or host for the location. I have a memo I'll just share with you. Could you just give me the code citation again, please? Yeah, it's 6.04.040. See, I have a memo that has the language here.
 I believe this is not a substantive change but more in the nature of a drafting issue. The including but not limited to language implies that the scope of the inquiry could go well beyond the information that is currently sought in the ordinance. And I think to address concerns that have been raised about a too open-ended process,
 It would be wise to delete the but not limited to, which I think is just a standard language we use, but I think has been interpreted as opening the door to a broader set of requests for information. This has been discussed, Mayor, with your staff and with Thomas Lanham, and it's a friendly amendment that they accept. I have no objection to that as long as we understand that related contact information would be assumed to include telephone numbers. Okay.
 Since that is related contact information. The intent here is not to have but not limited to be construed as authorizing the request for information that goes well beyond what is identified in the ordinance. That was not the intent, and this is a case where using standard legal language might give someone heartburn in thinking that it's an invitation to go into a broader set of requests for information.
 If at some point the Revenue Bureau thinks they need additional authority, they can come get it, but they're comfortable with this friendly amendment. Okay. Unless there's any objection by other members of the council, I'll consider that a friendly amendment and a technical change. Sorry. Well, before we vote, I have a question about this very same section. It talks about any location and related contact information provided under this subsection is considered confidential
 and is not subject to public disclosure due to personal privacy concerns. I guess what is the legal basis for that? What's our ground to stand on when somebody wants that information? Under state public records laws, we have to oblige ourselves in good faith to accept information as confidential in order to assert a personal privacy exemption. And so that would be our way of asserting that when we take that information, we're obliging ourselves in good faith not to disclose it.
 So does that mean if somebody makes a public records request for business licensees who provide dwelling services or whatever category they might fall into, is that exempt from public records disclosure? It would probably depend. I mean, Thomas is probably more familiar with that particular type of record request. Yeah.
 Thomas Lanham with the Revenue Division. The bare fact of a business license is not subject to public record. It is subject to a public records request, and in fact we post that information on our website. It's the financial information that's not subject. So the fact that somebody has a business license, that's disclosed. Right. But then what they pay in taxes is not. Right. So we have the ability, it sounds like, to exclude disclosure of,
 the names and addresses of people providing short-term lodging services under this ordinance? Well, that was our intent. To the extent that they're fully compliant with every aspect of our law, including Title 33, it'll be a public record.
 For example, if I'm able to locate a host property, go to the BDS website, the Portland Maps website. You can actually click, get the BDS permit number, and that will reveal all of the contact information of the owner or the responsible person, the agent of that property. So to the extent that an operator is fully compliant with our law, they're already going to be out there in the public as having pulled that permit from BDS. Yes.
 The intent of this language was simply to state that up until the point that we have to disclose the information, we don't necessarily have any particular need to disclose that information. And, Thomas, that would be no different than any claim of confidentiality that we would apply. Ultimately, if a court issues a duly authorized subpoena,
 If a court or district attorney rules that the public interest outweighs the privacy concerns, we are always subject to some other authority directing us to produce information. I mean, we should be clear about that, regardless of what we build into our ordinances. That's true. So, I mean, are we creating a false expectation among people who will get permits under this program that there is some level of confidentiality when, in fact, it sounds like there's various ways to actually get that information?
 Not as to those that pull permits. I think it's fairly widely known that when you receive a permit that you are at that point, that's a public record. What we were trying to do in the discovery phase of bringing people into compliance was not to create a long laundry list of 1,000 or 1,500 operator locations who may or may not truly be in or out of compliance with the law, such that the newspaper or other...
 This other requester could get that list and publish this as, you know, what might be referred to, say, as a wall of shame. Why aren't you in compliance? We have no reason to do that or allow that to happen. So this is an effort to bar that from happening. Ultimately, as Commissioner Fish said, if it were challenged under Sunshine Law, you know, we would see where that would go. But it's the one first step.
 that the local government is making an assurance that we will try to hold that information as confidential. Thank you. Okay. Other questions for staff before we vote? Then roll call, please. Public testimony. Just to clarify, the amendment that we're voting on is the entirety of –
 This memo including the emergency clause? It's the friendly amendment that just strikes the but not limited to. I don't think we have to take public testimony. And we don't need an emergency clause because it's a friendly amendment. You may want to ask if there are people who want to test on that. Okay, so anyone who wants to speak on that amendment? Okay, seeing none, then we'll proceed. Thank you. On that amendment. On only that amendment. Well, that amendment relates to policy.
 No. We've had an extensive public hearing on the broad policy questions. This is a technical amendment, and we're not going to have Groundhog Day. So if you want to speak on that amendment only, you're welcome to come up. Come on up. We had hours of testimony on the policy questions here. Marianne Schwab, concerned with a policy question. It's not clear to me when you're voting on this amendment. When I buy my car, my license is registered with the state.
 All of my information is registered with the state. In fact, I understand as of when we had the three-year income tax to rescue the Portland Public School District, all six of our districts, you have that information available to you, all the income. So I am really concerned that if I'm in business, and this is a technical piece, Sunnyside has 68 Airbnbs, and we're talking one- to two-bedroom short-term rental.
 We're not even talking about the apartment yet that hasn't been approved. Of the 68, they've had six months to apply for a permit, only two have that permit. I think you are making a grave mistake by creating this loophole.
 If they are renting their rooms, there is no platform. You're talking platform, platform, platform, yet none of these online businesses have to report to the IRS that these homemakers are making income, these homeowners. I think that's the point of this amendment. That's the point that I want to make sure that somehow the IRS is aware of this business income or non-business income because I pay my taxes and I know you all do too. Thank you. All right, thank you.
 Okay, further questions or testimony on the amendment, then roll call on the amendment. Fritz? I'm sorry, on the ordinance as amended, sorry. We're not voting on that. No, on the ordinance as amended. We didn't add the emergency clause. We didn't add an emergency clause, so we can't vote on it. You have to take it to a further reading if you amend the ordinance today. So a friendly amendment triggers a second reading?
 Any amendment to an ordinance requires that five days pass between the amendment and the... I move the addition of an emergency policy. Okay. Is there a second to that? Is this an emergency for the amendment or an emergency for the ordinance? No, it would be for the ordinance. I'm not going to support the ordinance. Thomas, a suggestion? Yes. If, because of the amendment, it needs to return for a second reading anyway, I would suggest the removal of the emergency ordinance. No, it is not yet an emergency ordinance. Second reading. Second reading. So...
 can we put this over does it matter if we put the we can set it over for a week for a second reading so if that would suggest that what's that put it over for a second reading would be my suggestion okay
 Then, if there's no objection, we'll do that. We'll set it over to second reading next week. Since Thomas is here, though, and others who might be able to answer my question, I'll just put it into the record. I was listening to KGN this morning, as I do on the way to work, and they were talking about Uber and noting that Uber drivers are not covered by their regular auto insurance so that a passenger who was injured in an Uber crash might not.
 have any kind of liability coverage for their injuries. And I'm wondering, would a regular homeowner's insurance cover any liability from an accident that might happen to a guest? Excellent question. I won't pretend to know the answer. I would defer to the city attorney.
 they might not know either so i'd be very interested from uh for those in the audience who from the industry i know that some platforms do cover their hosts for things like damage by the guests to the um home just wondering do you have an answer to me answer for me i i don't know the answer we could take a look at it i thought that had been answered in previous testimony on this answer that yes homeowners does cover that but
 I think the answer is that it can. So let's get clarification. And the other clarification I'd like before the vote next week, Mr. Lanham, is you've included now short-term rentals in the definition of hotel. And I'm wondering what consideration of any unintended consequences to the definition of hotel might result. For instance, are downtown hotels that pay into various business improvement districts would –
 By defining short-term rentals as hotels, would this then open up other obligations to those hosts which are not really hotelish? So that would be something I'd like, maybe not now, but before next week. We may need to return to the question of taking action, but...
 Okay, so we're going to set it over until next week then. So may I ask, I may have missed because I've had people talking at me while doing this. Have we voted the amendment in yet? No, let's take a roll call on the amendments and then the modified ordinance will move over to next week. Council, the mayor accepted it as a friendly amendment. Why do we have to vote on it?
 Right. I did rule it. It was a Scribner's change. We just deleted the including but not limited to. Would it be cleaner? To me, it seems cleaner. I'm not sure. Vote the amendment. It seems like it may have actually been a substantive change given the ACLU's memo. I would vote on it. We'll take it as a substantive amendment. Is there a second? Second. Roll call on that. I'm prepared to support the amendment because it makes the –
 information requested more restrictive. I still believe that the information that's in the rest of the ordinance is problematic, but I do support the amendment. I. Bish. I do want to thank the ACLU for bringing to our attention the concern that the including but not limited to language might have been broader than we intended. This seems like a reasonable fix. Aye. Seltsman. Aye.
 Novick aye hails I want to thank the Revenue Bureau while I have you here Thomas for the work that you've done on this think it's important to remember this is the ordinance that modifies our revenue code not the substantive ordinance that we've already addressed which says that under our zoning code this use is legal
 So this is the question of how the Revenue Bureau will proceed to collect revenue. And, of course, unlike code enforcement, revenue compliance is required, not complaint-driven. So Thomas and his staff have broad authority to make sure that people are paying their taxes.
 And that's as it should be. I also have a lot of confidence in you and your staff to use that authority appropriately and in a measured way because the goal again is to have people be able to operate legally and pay their taxes and that's what this ordinance is about. So thank you. All right. Yeah. Okay. This will return for second reading next week then.
 All right. Let's move on to the two items that we pulled from the consent calendar and take those first and then the rest of the regular agenda after that. And the first one of those is 68. Approve and terminate limited tax exemptions for properties under the home buyer opportunity and multi-unit limited tax exemption programs. Someone pulled this for testimony or questions? Mr. Lightning pulled this.
 Is there someone here to provide information on this yes, okay Commissioner Saltzman Andrea come on up and give us a brief overview of this I
 Good morning. Is it still? Yes, still. Andrea Mathiason with the Portland Housing Bureau. The item before you is an administrative exercise on our single-family tax exemption programs. You've seen this resolution previously before. We bring it approximately three to four times a year. Encompassed within it are our audit and compliance,
 efforts to ensure that the people who continue to receive these tax exemptions are actually living in the homes as well as not renting the homes. Additionally, this resolution activates formally applications that the Housing Bureau has approved for new units.
 and within that is information on the amount of foregone revenue that the city is approving as well as revenue that's going back on the tax rolls for units whose exemptions are being terminated thank you thank you other questions for staff and anyone want to speak on this item then we'll take a roll call on the resolution
 Fish. Thank you, Dan. And Portland Housing Bureau and with the creation of the new bureau, all of this oversight responsibility on tax exemption program shifted to the bureau, and they've done an admirable job being transparent annually with particularly around the area people no longer in compliance and therefore who lose the benefit of the deal. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Thank you. Aye. Okay. Item 69. Hales.
 amend contract with Innovative Growth Solutions, LLC, in the amount of $35,000 for additional transportation finance and economic analysis for the Portland Street Fund and authorized payment. Mr. Novick, any comments before we start? No, I'll just ask Jamie to take it away and describe the contract. I'm going to actually let Andrew start. Oh, sorry. Okay.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and City Commissioner Andrew Karlstrom, PBOT Employee Services Division Manager. This ordinance requests an amendment to the city's contract with Innovative Growth Solutions, which PBOT has utilized for expert services related to revenue options. The original amount of this contract, which was executed in 2014, was $50,000. This contract amendment, if approved, will bring the total amended contract authority to $85,000. Thank you.
 The purpose for this amendment is for additional scope for the following four items. One, additional economic analysis related to non-residential and residential revenue calculations and analysis in associated criteria and implementation strategies. Two, additional transportation finance analysis of other potential funding mechanisms for transportation funding.
 Three, additional community outreach events and working group meetings. And four, additional analysis and consultation on the implementation of the non-residential and residential funding mechanisms. This firm is a state-certified woman-owned and emerging small business. And with me today is Jamie Waltz to give you additional background on the amendment. Thank you.
 Jamie Waltz, Portland Bureau of Transportation. This is for the analysis for the Portland Street Fund. We had extended the program and process beyond May when we first came to Council with a proposal, and so we needed additional expertise and analysis done. And so the contract with Gary Corbin that we were asking to amend, we've spent the $50,000
 contract limit. So we're asking for additional revenue for the contract so that we can continue to finish off the process and then also go into the implementation phase. Thank you. Questions? Is Mr. Corbin the principal of Innovative Growth Solutions? No, he is not. Shirlene Warnock is the principal. Other questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up, Lightning.
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning PDX Think Lab. One of the concerns I have on this is my understanding this is pertaining to the street fee. They're doing analysis on the residential business. So I'm beginning to watch these costs very closely. One of the things I want to have this company watch, if I may state this, is that on the special appropriations, I have a big concern with RAC receiving a tremendous amount of money for art
 When we have streets that need a tremendous amount of repair and paving services needed out there desperately, I need to have an understanding and data provided on this on how they've received like $55-plus million. Now, if we're allowing special appropriations to be directed in certain areas, who are the people deciding that the street maintenance in this city, repairing the potholes, repairing the streets...
 It's not more important than funding some of these art projects or these art non-profits. I want this to be looked at very closely from the public's position. They're expecting us to come up with a tremendous amount of money, and I want to have an understanding, and I hate to say this to you, Mayor, is that the history on what's going on is very important to me to have an understanding on what needs to be funded at this time.
 And I also would like additional studies, possibly from this company. I would like a little more data pertaining to Multnomah County. Now, do they have a responsibility on this street fee? Do they have a responsibility to look at the vehicle registration fees that were imposed of $18 per vehicle that was applied to the bridge?
 When does that run out? Can we extend that out? Can we work with Multnomah County to transfer anything toward the street fee down the line? These are things that I want to have looked at to have a clear understanding. What is Multnomah County's responsibility pertaining to the street fee or the streets throughout this?
 Originally, they did have agreements that they were supposed to do certain streets within certain areas, and that has been transferred back to the City of Portland. So I want to have a clear understanding on exactly what they're expected to do on this, and this is why this data is very important. I'm not questioning the amount that you're asking. I just want to have certain areas focused on.
 So me as the public has a clear understanding on what needs to happen pertaining out on this street fee if it's going to be approved. Thank you. Thank you. Good point. Thanks. Okay. Anything else further? And a roll call on, no, it's second reading. So it moves to second reading next week.
 Okay. Now we have a few items on the regular agenda. I understand Director Schaaf is here, and we have a couple of Water Bureau items we might be able to deal with fairly swiftly. So would you read number 70, please?
 except bid of Stettler Supply Company, DBA Stettler Supply and Construction, for the well sites improvement project for $640,945. Good morning, Ms. Huggins. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Stettler Supply Company. The original engineer's estimate on this project was $750,000.
 On December 4, 2014, one bid was received, and Stetler Supply Company is the low bidder at $640,945. Portland Water Bureau has reviewed the bid items and believes the price offered is good. The City identified one division of work for a potential minority, Women in Emerging Small Business Subcontracting Opportunities.
 Subcontracting participation on this project is at 2.1%, with a minority-owned business performing painting and wallpapering. I will turn this back over to Council if you have any questions, and Dave Peters from the Water Bureau is here to answer any technical questions about this project. Okay, questions? The only other thing I'll note for questions is that, unlike a couple of other bids that Christine has brought forth recently, in this case the optimal estimate was $750,000.
 And we only received one bid. That's correct. Which is interesting. And it came in at $640,000. All right. Nice exception. Nice work. Other questions? So obviously the minority women participation is abysmal. And is that because there's just one applicant that was the only –
 responsive bid? Actually, in looking through the subcontracting opportunities, there were only two subcontracting opportunities. The other one is drilling, and there's no minority women or emerging small businesses that do that type of work. So they're subcontracting out this painting and wallpapering and then the drilling. And the other work is all being self-reported. It's a pretty specialty type of work. That's the one bidder. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 Then motion to adopt the report. Move the report. Second. Discussion? Roll call. Fritz? Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish? Thank you, Christine, and thanks to the Water Bureau. Aye. Feltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. OK. And then the other Water Bureau item was 74. Commissioner Fish? Well, read it, please. Sorry. OK.
 Authorize a contract and provide payment for the construction of the Tabor Adjustments Project at an estimated cost of $4,800,000. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Mayor, the item before the council would allow the Water Bureau to work with the procurement team to bid the construction portion of the Mount Tabor Reservoir Disconnect Project.
 As you know, this project is part of the City's plan to comply with the open reservoir portion of the LT2 rule, which is part of the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act.
 That plan also includes the construction of new underground storage facilities at Kelly Butte and at Powell Butte. This project is currently in the land use review process. The Historic Landmark Commission is hearing the Bureau's Type 3 application package. It is possible that the Landmarks Commission decision will be appealed, in which case it would come to Council for a ruling. For that reason, I want to call Council's attention to the finding at number 7, which reads as follows.
 Elements, quote, elements of the Tabor Adjustment Project are the subject of a pending Type 3 land use review before Historic Landmarks Commission, which may result in appeal of the decision to the City Council.
 Approval of this ordinance only authorizes the Water Bureau to solicit bids for the implementing work for the Tabor Adjustment Project. It does not constitute Council approval of this project or prejudgment of any land use appeals concerning the project that may be filed with the Council.
 Additionally, it is important to note that the contract that results from this procurement will not come back to Council for approval until such time as the land use process is resolved at the city level. We have Director David Schaaf and Principal Engineer Teresa Elliott, who is managing the suite of LT2 compliance projects, here to tell us more. And we also have Catherine Beaumont on hand if any legal questions arise. David? Thank you.
 Good morning. I'm David Schaff. I'm the director of the Water Bureau, and as the commissioner said, this is Therese Elliott. She is the principal engineer in charge of all of our LT2 reservoir compliance, and she'll
 She's here to rescue me if I misstep. As you know, the project is intended to disconnect the three open drinking water reservoirs at Mount Tabor from the city's water distribution system as part of our plan to comply with LT2. It includes about 1,500 feet of new pipe. It includes connections between existing pipes and other improvements to our facilities at the park.
 construction scheduled to begin around in the summer of this year 2015 and to be completed in 2017 as the Commissioner mentioned their project is in land-use hearing the second hearing
 actually occurred Monday. We expect to be ready to bid, advertise for bids in February or March of 2015. We will not open those bids until the land use decision process from the city side is completed. The work will be sequenced in order for us to meet the deadline that we committed to the EPA to disconnect the three reservoirs by December 31st of 2015.
 There will be contract work occurring after that that's not tied to the compliance deadline, but it's essential to keeping the system operational, for example, the pipe installation along southeast Lincoln. Why are we doing this now instead of waiting for the land use process to go through its course? The time involved, as you well know, in the procurement process can influence the scheduling of critical activities for the project.
 This includes all the elements of the city's bid process up to the selected contractor providing insurance, bonding, obtaining a signed contract, and the other work elements associated with the project.
 Due to the amount of the lead time required to complete these important elements, our best practice is for city procurement to work with us to begin soliciting bids in February. This could allow for construction to begin this summer in June, assuming that there are no further delays. We won't actually complete the disconnection until December 31st,
 And the time between this summer and December provides us our ability to approve the required materials for the project, set up the site, and physically do the work involved in it that disconnects. Now, you're all very familiar, I think, with the public involvement approach that we worked on on this. Our staff, staff from Commissioners Fish and Fritz's office and a consultant have done a significant amount of public outreach and involvement. This has included public meetings, public walking tours.
 meetings with the community advisory committee, the land use review process. Based on a lot of that input, the staff made design choices. We limited the number of trees that are affected by the project. We changed the routing of some of the project. We've committed to keeping the reservoirs full of non-potable water after the disconnection until the council makes a final decision on what the future use of those reservoirs are going to be. And we've committed to park improvements in the vicinity of the work.
 The overall project estimate is about $7.4 million, and that includes the planning, the design, the public outreach, the construction management, inspection, two different contracts, work by our staff, historic restoration, specialty consulting, permits, and contingencies. The two contracts will be the actual disconnection work that we're talking about now and a smaller contract to repair the Reservoir 1 facade and the sidewalks.
 Estimated cost for this primary contract that we're talking about putting out to bid is approximately $4.1 million with a moderate level of confidence. Total construction should be about $4.8, and that includes both contingencies and our internal costs. We consider it to be a moderate level confidence level because the design isn't complete yet. We have to get through that process.
 land use process to see if there are any changes that we would need to take into account. The project has about 15% contingency to cover the unknowns. The conditions of the approval when we get them could affect the costs. The bid prices will also affect the costs.
 We are doing some in-house construction, so some of the disconnection projects along 60th will probably be done by our crews. So we're doing a mix of both contract and in-house construction. The bid type will be through the design-bid-build method for the construction contract. A formal bidding process will be done in accordance with the city procurement rules.
 and the public contracting law. The solicitation will include uniprice and lump sum bid items. And, of course, we will, the MWESB subcontractor involvement will be included to the bid and required by bidders in accordance with our goals and objectives. There are some related projects and contracts involved.
 that will be done under this one design-bid-build contract. This includes the pipe cut and plugs in or near the right-of-way. Those will be done by the water barrel crews that I mentioned. The Reservoir 1 historical structure repairs will be done under a separate contract. We will do long-term maintenance of the mitigation trees along the project. That will be done through a separate contract or in consultation or an agreement with the Parks Bureau.
 The Tabor generator project, which is covered under the same land use review, will be done by a separate contract. That's removing the generator from the Tabor gatehouse. There are a number of agencies that are involved in this. We have been and will continue to work with the Oregon Health Authority regarding the water quality-driven reservoir disconnections. We have submitted the signed drawings to OHA for their approval.
 We'll be working with DEQ on their permit for stormwater management in the construction areas. The Bureau of Development Services will issue one or more building permits following the approved land use review.
 We've worked with the Oregon State Historic Preservation Office to review potential impacts to the historic districts and make sure that the project doesn't adversely affect any historic resources. SHPO issued a letter last week indicating that the project has no adverse impact on the historic districts and that no mitigation would be required from them.
 It is currently in a Type 3 land use hearing process with the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission. If there is an appeal, it will be heard by hearing with City Council later this spring. And, of course, we're working with Parks and Recreation on landscaping and planting operations to minimize the impacts during the construction on the park, the park users, and park operations. Thank you.
 If you have any further questions, either Teresa or I will attempt our best to answer them. Mayor, just one comment. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz, Director Abate of the Parks Bureau for
 for being really terrific partners in this exercise, this enterprise. This is very, very challenging work, and we particularly appreciate Commissioner Fritz's advice as to how to make the community consultation process more robust. That doesn't mean we're going to convince some of the people that frankly don't agree with the federal government's rule, but I think it is demonstrably true that more people have been heard and the process is better because of her input. And I also just want to acknowledge that Marianne Schwab, who I think left,
 came up to me, and I think she's forgot that we're slightly, this is not a budget hearing, but she did ask that I put a budget request in for the Water Bureau, and that was a raise for Teresa Elliott. She did. Actually, she did say that. And so I want to just acknowledge that she has a very challenging job. And what Mary Ann said to me was she trusts her, and that's the highest compliment that you can give to someone who works for a bureau. So thank you for your work.
 That's great to hear. Particularly for Marianne Schwab, who is very diligent about looking into all the details. So I echo my thanks to you, Teresa. And I love it every time you're introduced as the principal engineer. You're just a great role model for students in Portland Public Schools and elsewhere that we heard from this morning of what women can do. Thank you. Great. Thank you both. Any other questions? Yeah, I was just curious. Has it been decided who pays for the non-potable water that's going to fill the reservoirs?
 the non-drinking water no we're going to bring that back to you what's up we were going to bring that back to you no we haven't decided that and to the extent what we're doing we haven't got a proposal with the community and we we we don't want to prejudge whatever the landmarks commission recommended recommendations are because that will be that's a type three hearing but no we've made we've made no decision or commitment on that issue
 Partially covered by the ticket sales for the arm wrestling contest between Mr. Schaaf and Mr. Abate. Just that question. Who's going to pay? Well, I mean, there are, as I recall, there are non-covenants that prohibit Bureau of Environmental Services or the Water Bureau from providing free...
 So, Commissioner, we'll probably have that discussion when the appeal comes from the land use decision comes to us before Council, so we shouldn't be discussing it before that quasi-judicial process gets to us. We've been specifically instructed not to talk about that because there's a Type 3 hearing proceeding, and we've made also no commitment one way or another on that issue. There will be a full opportunity for the Council to give us guidance on that issue.
 Good to know. All right. Thank you both. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this ordinance? Yes. We have three people signed up. Michelle Munt, Charles Johnson, and Joe Walsh. Come on up, please. Okay, Ms. Munt, I think you're first. I'm passing, but thank you for having the forum allowing me to speak out in sometimes inappropriate ways, and appropriate it would be for me to sign up and pass. Okay. Thank you. Joe? Ready? Thank you. Thank you. Walsh, I think you're next. Thank you.
 My name is Joe Walsh, and I will speak for individuals for justice on this item. Just a side note, I said to my wife when I left this morning I was not going to speak on anything. It's important to keep what promises to your wife. I'm sure she's watching. She's probably just cracking up. On TV, Joe. Joe, what happens here will stay here. No, I don't think you can count on that.
 On Monday, we went to the land use review. It lasted about four hours. There were 100 people who testified one way or the other, either in person or in writing. There was not one that supported this project. Not one. There was one woman who was kind of on the fence, but even she did not support this project.
 You've heard hundreds of citizens who represent themselves and represent organizations say to you, don't do this, but you're going to do it anyway. And here's how you're going to do it, for the record. You're going to wait for the land use management to make their decision. And there's some indication they may say no.
 At least there's one commissioner that was pretty much saying no. So it may happen. Miracles do happen. They may say no. And where's the appeal? Back to you guys. You talk about a loaded deck. Would you give me a break?
 You've already decided you're going to do this. You're already spending millions of dollars. There's not a politician in the world that would make a 180 on this issue, and it's coming back to you. So why don't you skip the middleman and just make the damn decision and cover the reservoirs so we can go into court someplace somehow to try to stop you? Mr. Johnson? Good afternoon, Commissioners. As Mr. Watt, I was also...
 had the pleasure or the duty to remain on the second floor of the 1900 Southwest building from 115 till 515 to hear pretty much unanimous feedback from our community that you shouldn't rush. You know, we've talked about the diversity of opinion here, but I think that sometimes y'all are evasive of the dual concern. Obviously, as Mr. Fish noted, some people just don't like LT2 and LT2.
 That's understandable, but I think the other thing is that they have a quote on the literature that we looked at the other day about it's the duty of the citizens to essentially control the government. What we expect really from y'all is since part of the local politician's job is to whine about unfunded federal mandates, we expect you to fight them instead of throw money at them.
 And I believe you've essentially been... I was tempted to say dishonest, but there's been a comprehensive discussion. And you felt that you were going to have to throw $4.8-plus million, plus all the construction for the cracked underground. You felt you would have to do that anyway. And as it turns out, you might not have had to. The LT2 might have been a waivable thing. It might even be reversed. We might be able to reconnect the reservoirs. That's very much up in the air. But really...
 You should all vote no on this to regain the confidence of the voters who want you to resist unfunded federal mandates that are based on poor public policy. That is why there's so much energy and contention around this. It's not just that we don't like LT2 and that we don't think the reservoirs need to be covered. It's also that we're the citizens, we're the voters,
 We haven't mobilized a massive majority. There was a little teeny recall campaign which we won't get into the details here. But the main thing is that often we hear from our elected officials, oh, the federal government wants us to do things and they take in gobs of money and then they don't help us accomplish those things. And yet many of us firmly cling to the opinion that instead of asking for $4.8 million to do this
 unnecessary poor policy work
 You should have just used the 40 attorneys that you pay annual salaries to postpone this further, and the cost would have been about the same. So boo on you. Don't minimize or ridicule us for our fervent objection to your over-eagerness to expend money on unnecessary projects. You are free to dispute the necessity, but since we're the electors, when we tell you you didn't have to do it,
 Just believe us and say, I'm sorry, it was different. Don't ridicule us. Thank you. Thanks. Any other questions? Anyone want to speak? Mayor, you won't be here next week, is that right? I will not be here next week. If I could, Mayor, just... Please. Thank you, Charles. The last time Commissioner Fritz and I were in Mount Tabor, we were presented with a
 a set of questions from the community we prepare detailed answers furnish them to the community they're also posted at the water bureau website and there's a link on my website i think commissioner fritz may have a link so for people that want more information there's a detailed q a
 I just want to clarify something, what was before us. There is no proposal to cover the reservoirs. That's not part of this proposal. It's not been part of our plan. And secondly, we deeply appreciate that there are people in the community that disagree with the federal government on LT2. This council fought tooth and nail and opposed the other side of LT2, which is the treatment side. We're the only city in the country that got relief from that rule, the only one.
 Conversely, no city in America has received a variance or a waiver of this side of the rule. So we can argue about whether it's good policy or not. No jurisdiction in America has obtained the relief that some of the critics think we should have obtained. And we did fight this good fight for seven years in the courts, in the legislature, and before administrative bodies. Whether you agree or disagree with the underlying science,
 The trains left the station. Pal Butte 2 is now online. You're drinking the water. And what's left is a disconnect process, which Commissioner Fritz and I are trying to lead in a way that's sensitive to the historic fabric and the traditions and the community will while complying with the federal rule that every other city in America has been required to comply with.
 and to the comment about minimizing voices. We can agree or disagree about many things. I don't think you can accuse Commissioner Fritzer or me of minimizing anyone's voice. In fact, at some of the hearings, we've had a hard time actually even responding to the voices because they've been so loud and robust. That's democracy in action, but neither of us have minimized anyone's voice in this.
 but we are fulfilling our sworn duty to comply with a directive of the federal government, and we are in the same predicament as every other city in America. So I just want that context, and we'll take up the vote next week. All right. Appreciate that clarification. Pass the second reading. Thank you. Thanks. All right. Then let's see. We have a couple things left. Item number 71.
 approve innovation funding for 12 proposals for fiscal year 2014-15. Mr. Miller and team. Now, good afternoon. Good afternoon. Fred Miller, Director of OMF. I'm here to give information with several helpers about an ordinance before you to approve 12 proposals from the innovation fund, which, of course, you put in the last two budgets.
 And I think my best purpose here is to explain how we got to these 12, and then you're going to see presentations from five of the 12, Leslie being one of them, all of which will be two to three minutes, just to give you a sense of what they are. And then by the time we're through, you should understand where we are and what we have left to do. So sometime in September, we inherited this program from the budget office and
 and it all of a sudden appeared like there's lots of work to do to get things done, to learn from what was done last time and then get recommendations to you today. And there's a reason to get here early before the budget process.
 So we looked around and made the good judgment of transferring Liz Mitchell to us for a while from BTS, who understands the city and knows lots of employees and can help facilitate innovation. So she became our employee to work with three or four others within OMF to sort of spearhead this effort.
 As we looked at the process from last year, we heard several comments. I'm not sure this is exhaustive, but some suggested that the process was very expensive to prepare proposals from which they might get no money, but they might spend thousands of dollars to get a proposal in, and then it didn't turn out for them, that perhaps they didn't receive enough feedback, and then the decisions got made after the budget process, or there was some confusion about budget proposals and innovation.
 So with Liz's help, we launched the program to basically establish a panel to review the proposals when we had them. And there were two bureau directors, Sam being one, and I think he's the only one from that panel here, and Molly being the other, and then a couple people from the review panel last year, and then some employees and citizens to look at all the proposals we got.
 We then asked bureaus for a call for ideas. We said, don't spend thousands of dollars on a proposal. Give us one page with the best ideas you've got. We want the panel to review them and give you a thumbs up or thumbs down. If they like it and they want more information, they'll invite a larger proposal of about three pages to hear in the next month.
 So we had lots of people working on it. We made one more change, something that I think is important in the program, to help establish a culture of innovation within the city. And we thought big ideas that are the $100,000, $200,000 are hard sometimes when, in fact, we think the employees have lots of ideas that with $10,000 might be funded very successfully.
 So we asked for both what we called micro-grants of less than $15,000 to $20,000 and then the larger grants that you saw last time. So in asking for the proposals, we got 45 proposals from 16 bureaus, and we reviewed those internally, gave them to the review panel,
 And they made some recommendations. They brought back those they got more information from. And all the proposers were able to sit and watch the deliberation of the panel and respond to questions. So I think it felt good in terms of that process. And we ended up with a panel selecting eight larger projects and four microgrants. And so I think we have a pretty good collection. You're going to hear that from a couple of those that were selected.
 But one of the things we don't want to do is to say the process is now over. We're hopeful that you'll approve this ordinance and we can go ahead with these 12. But we have in mind two more opportunities for our review panel to look at microgrants this year, this fiscal year.
 because the basic theory is good ideas shouldn't happen before November 4 when the committee meets and then wait for a year. If someone has a good idea to be funded, they should be able to raise it in January or February and have a chance for us to fund it via the innovation funds. And that will be some work on our part and an employee's part, but I think we'll have a pretty good bunch of proposals and then make other recommendations that we would bring to you.
 So essentially, that's where we are. Liz, did I leave anything out in that? Overall, I think what I will do is move out of the way and be ready to respond to questions afterward, but let Leslie begin, and then we're going to have Liz has orchestrated this well. So we're going to have four more people make presentations of two or three minutes, and then if you have any questions, I'll be happy to respond. Great. Thank you.
 Go ahead. Good afternoon, Commissioners, Mayor. I'm Leslie Goodloe. I'm the Business Operations Manager for the Housing Bureau, and I'm going to talk to you about our innovation project. Ours is about assisting homeless families
 So our city has hundreds of homeless assistance programs operating on an average winter day. Faith-based organizations are about a third of these programs, including the majority of food and substantial portion of all shelter and drop-in services.
 For example, at our faith-based summit that we had in December, we had 15 churches participate. Eight of those churches do hunger and food services on a weekly basis, and nine of them provide some type of homeless service, either clothing, shelter, letting families park in their parking lots, a variety of things, which if we had not had that summit, we would not have known about what the services are.
 So despite the long history of them helping people in need, we know very little about what they're doing. And they serve primarily a diverse population. Faith-based organizations have historically steered clear government because we require a lot of restraints and a lot of rules and things that they don't generally feel like they should have to –
 to do in order to provide help to people. This innovation project aims to couple the specialized care and commitment provided by faith-based organizations serving the homeless with city services and housing resources.
 As part of the proposal, we'll appoint a staff member as a faith-based liaison to work with churches to develop a data and information sharing program. The data sharing program will employ a tool that's XML data transfer in order to make data sharing as easy as possible.
 This proposal will build on work we started last year with our Innovation Fund project, where we were working with some of our subrecipients on how to transfer data and to save time so they don't have to do double data entry. That was successful. And this second portion was recommended by Portland State, who was working with the city on the Innovation Fund projects last year.
 This project aims to create a new relationship contributing new information to the city's efforts to reduce and end homelessness. It will contribute new knowledge about the needs of Portland residents and the strategies to best meet those needs.
 Faith-based agencies have very close ties with their communities and are often the first place people reach out to when they are in need. Many of the potential data sharing partners identified diverse communities that have not been reached through our traditional outreach efforts. We have identified three churches that we're going to start with for the pilot.
 Thank you. Thank you. Great. Thank you, Wesley. And for the record, I am Liz Mitchell with Office of Management and Finance. And now I'd like to ask Sue Glenn from Parks to join us. Good morning. My name is Sue Glenn. I'm Zone Services Manager for North Portland Bureau of Parks and Recreation. And I'm the Project Manager for RxPLAY, the Prescription for Play program, which addresses the widespread inactivity among our youth and the resulting health consequences.
 Today, Jean Reistrom is with me. Jean is the original founding champion for RxPlay. She's retired from Kaiser Permanente. However, she continues to be a tireless advocate for the program. Jean worked closely with the Oregon State Parks, Portland Parks and Recreation, and a variety of health organizations to create the opportunities for prevention, which are core to the Prescription for Play project.
 So we know that pediatricians and other healthcare providers routinely provide advice to become more physically active to their patients, but we also know that for some patients that advice alone isn't sufficient. Being able to follow that advice through the Parks and Recreation with an organized systematic handoff to Parks and Recreation, which then provides a concrete and accessible options to the patient and their family through personal and tailored interaction with a guide,
 has been a win for the child, the family, health care, and recreation.
 so this program has evolved from a research-based pilot in 2008 to citywide rollout 2011 and 12. and during that time both initial phases identified barriers within the program barriers which included access registration fees staffing capacity and in 2013 portland parks and recreation was awarded a grant from the national recreational park association to specifically address those barriers we are seeing great success
 We have increased our capture rates. We have impacted families. We have reached out to families and individuals who either were unable or unaware of our services. By removing these barriers and encouraging physical activity, we are creating socialization opportunities and creating community. The Innovation Fund will ensure that this effort continues. It will fund staff.
 scholarships and an outside evaluator to assist us in proving the efficacy of this program it will convene a panel of experts to assist us in reviewing the model and to assist in obtaining ongoing funding and the replication of our explay to benefit children and families beyond the Portland city limits thank you thank you Sanjeev next up we'd like to have Peter Wojcicki and Kirsten Beyer from Peabody join us
 good afternoon i'm peter bochik i'm the division manager of street systems at pbot maintenance operations with me is kirsten byer a traffic supervisor she's the one who did most of the legwork for our our innovation fund project idea here with over 163 000 traffic signs throughout portland these they they provide all sorts of information to the traveling public in the form of
 street names, parking, warning, regulatory, and stop signs. Our crews are out there almost daily cleaning them, removing graffiti, adjusting them, making them so they're visible and they're
 functioning for the public to use. Graffiti has been identified as one item that really sticks out a lot and takes a lot of effort for our crews to clean up. It's identified anywhere between 20 and 40 percent of our signs have graffiti on them. And oftentimes it's in the form of ink, paint, stickers, and because it's multiple layers of these type of
 mediums that it takes a while for our crews to clean them. And typically when you're cleaning something, if you do any of that at home or something like that, typically wear the paint off or something behind it. So we've been really looking out, trying to find something that can help protect our signs in a manner that
 Also provides the retroreflectivity that we need for signs to be seen at night when they reflect off your lights and things like that. About 15,000 of our signs have retroreflectivity on them right now. Most of those are stop signs. About 100,000 of them need to meet retroreflectivity guidelines based on federal law.
 Over the years, we've tried different products to clean or coatings on the signs. None have provided ease of cleaning protection or have been cost effective. Our maintenance operations traffic supervisors met with a service disabled veteran-owned business that introduced us to a new coating that is applied in a three-part compound that will provide both retroreflectivity protection and anti-graffiti protection. These would allow the signs to be cleaned faster and with an environmentally friendly cleaner.
 And eventually, we hope that we'll be able to allow our neighborhood associations or cleanup crews to be able to clean our signs. Currently, we essentially forbid them from doing that because of the chemicals we use and the damage that can be done to the signs that I detailed earlier. We've also found that this new product will cost, on average, $6 to apply to a stop sign, whereas right now we are currently spending $28 to put a sheet coating on the stop sign to protect its retroreflectivity.
 So, the other final point about this product that we're looking at is what we call non-sacrificial. You'll be able to clean it over and over and over again, whereas with some of these sheet coatings, once you clean it, you start to wear it off, it diminishes, and then you have to re-coat it or replace the sign entirely. So we're really hoping to see a great deal of savings in the long term for extended life of our signs.
 lessening the amount of time we have to spend cleaning them and being able to redirect our resources elsewhere. Thank you. Thank you so much. Clever solution. Thank you. Thank you, Peter and Kirsten. And now I'd like to ask Scott Bradway from Water and Lauren Nixon from Human Resources to join us. Afternoon. Good afternoon. Scott Bradway. I'm the Water Quality Information Program Manager with the Portland Water Bureau. And the proposal that we submitted was for a water quality mapping widget.
 One of the programs that I work with is what we call the water line. It's a phone line that takes phone calls from our customers concerning water quality questions and concerns. One of those questions that comes up occasionally is when there's a disturbance in our drinking water system. What can happen is sediments in our system can get disturbed, resulting in discolored, dirty water by our customers.
 While this is harmless for folks to consume, it's obviously disturbing for people to see and results in quite a few phone calls to our water line. It can overwhelm our staff working the line. And quite often people wonder or will state that they comment that they have searched online looking for information about what's going on with the system and aren't finding anything.
 So, what we're hoping to implement with this proposal is a mapping kind of widget or plug-in to our website. It will also be mobile friendly. That will allow customers to be able to go to the website, either the home page or the Water Bureau website, or using their phone, to be able to look up where they're at when they're experiencing this type of situation and to see what's going on with the drinking water system, to see that there is...
 a main break or some other situation that has resulted in this condition that they're experiencing. It will also provide them with a link to find more information as to what they can do to remedy the situation or when the situation might improve.
 So, this widget will hopefully relieve some of the phone calls that we get. It will also help put information out there for people who don't know about our waterline and who don't know currently where to go get information, who could just go to our website looking for what's going on. Ultimately, we hope to be able to partner with other bureaus to be able to increase the scope of this program, to be able to put other information out there that the city is doing, such as road construction or road closures.
 other work that might be happening at a park or sewer work that's happening. So I think it holds a lot of potential. Great. It's a clever idea, and it may be the first time in the history of government that the word widget has ever actually appeared in an ordinance. Yeah.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Lauren Nixon. I'm with the Bureau of Human Resources. The Innovation Project is an opportunity to support our workforce today and prepare them for tomorrow. In 2013, the Bureau of Human Resources launched its first e-learning training program, and to date, over 3,300 employees have successfully completed the program.
 The Training and Workforce Development Department will continue to create new e-learning training programs in the next fiscal year. E-learning training offers a multitude of benefits. It improves efficiency because participants don't have to wait for a scheduled course and travel to a central location. Instead, the training comes to them on their time. And it's responsive to a rapidly changing environment. We can easily edit the content, delivering up-to-date and timely information.
 It's really an all-inclusive package that saves the city valuable time and resources while delivering high-quality training.
 employees must have access to a network computer in order to take the e-learning training. And currently we estimate that between one-third to one-half of our city's workforce does not have regular access to a network computer. So to bridge that technology gap, we're asking the Innovation Project to fund a $10,000 pilot project to acquire and deploy training tablets. These training tablets will be specifically designed for e-learning programs to bring e-learning to employees out in the field.
 The Bureau of Human Resources will manage and administer the distribution and maintenance of these training tablets, and bureaus can opt in to use them. By investing in the city's workforce, e-learning training provided on the training tablets will save resources and improve efficiency and develop our workforce through emerging mobile technology. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Scott and Lauren. I'd like to thank all of our presenters, and we've been very pleased with the 12 project proposals that the panel has recommended.
 Thank you for your time and your support of the innovation program, and we'd be happy to answer any questions. Questions for Liz or Fred? Anyone involved in this? Question, Mayor. They all seem great. Thank you.
 The one from the Water Bureau seemed just exceptionally great. You're not biased. I wanted to ask them whether they felt that Chairman Miller was parsimonious in the allocation or whether the council can override the parsimonious Miller. Any pinching Fred is coming to defend himself. As it happened, I don't think the committee even looked at
 where the proposals came from in terms of commissioners or bureaus. But just by chance, we did have one from each of your areas in this presentation. So that part was an odd coincidence. But the selection was not. Were there enough resources to fund the basic ask of the ones you selected? Yes. And we have some remaining looking for microgrants coming in. And we'll keep you posted on how that goes.
 I think the cost of some of these projects is pretty modest. I was impressed at that as well, not only the innovation itself, but the fact that people figured out how to do some of these things for a relatively small amount of money. So that was pretty impressive as well. Well, in the whole process, I think Sam made the most meaningful comment on what should we be looking for, things that don't cost a lot of money that you normally wouldn't budget where there's a risk, but there could be a huge payoff. And those things we tend not to fund.
 But if you're looking at research on the private side, you like to try new things and fail early. And if we do that, some of these things aren't going to work if we try something that is on the edge. But we've got to, at this stage, we're not being too risky. But I think we need the culture when the good ideas are there, we're saying we're here to try new things. So in adding up the numbers, it looks like 330,000 is being allocated to OMF for staff and training. Is that correct?
 No, it's not. I'm not questioning your adding. We did want to do something with some supervisory training to facilitate the implementation of ideas. We haven't done that, but we have whatever, $660,000 here, some money for Liz. We've got $200,000 not spent, and right now
 Again, there are micro grants in the offing. It could be we don't spend the full million, but it's not OMF using. How much is going to administration within OMF? At this point, the only funds that have been designated for administration are for the position that I am in, which was $125,000. When we're not going to use that whole fund. We're not going to spend all that because it's not a full year. That's what you approved in the fall of the month. Is the plan to continue that?
 The administrative position at $125,000. I think we need to make a proposal in the next budget process to say how we'd expend the funds. We're learning this year. I think we're better this year than last. We'll be better next year. And did you say that there's a member of the selection committee here? I think just Sam. Would you mind coming to answer some questions? Actually, Commissioner, may I ask Fred one more question? Well, I'm not done yet. All right.
 I just wanted Sam to join. I'm sure you'll all have answers to this question. Thank you very much for serving, and I agree. There's a lot of great projects, and the range of projects is better. Obviously, the bureaus are learning how to write successful applications. My question relates to the evaluation about equity, and I noticed that at least one of the –
 funded grants doesn't really address the equity question as far as who benefits and who is burdened. And I wondered if you could talk to me about the discussion at the committee about equity issues. Sam Hutchison, Bureau Director at FPDR and on the Innovation Selection Committee. It was brought up in virtually every one is what type of innovation, who did it serve, did it serve directly, would it indirectly serve,
 And there are a few that don't because they're internal, but it was definite that we had at least two members that were very committed to discussing the fund.
 diversity and equity in the proposals as well as it came up in most of the members discussed. So it was actively discussed and actively a criteria. And how is it, how are the applications screened to make sure that the written application should be responsive to that question? I'm not certain the screening because they were presented to us, but we did ask questions because that was one of our criteria to look at in the selection. So if we did not see it, we asked questions of the
 the finalist groups that we were ‑‑ And I would be happy to add on to that. For the projects that were asked to come back for round two, we did ask for an in‑depth project proposal focused on who would benefit and what equity the
 how this would promote equity and also promote opportunity and to whom. And so the proposers had that criteria out there, and the panel had five filters that we asked them to use to evaluate the proposals when they came back, and they were, do you think the proposal is innovative, original? Does it show strategic creativity?
 Are other funding sources taken into consideration? Is the Innovation Fund the best funding source? Can this project be carried out with the information put forward, including the estimated budget?
 are the key partners on board and are there benefits to the proposed project? Does it advance equity? Does it provide opportunity? Is there potential for greater benefits with broader applications? So those were the filters that we asked the panel to put each of the projects through, and if they had passed all of them, then to move on. Okay, thank you. That actually answered my next question, which is a concern about cost savings, because when this project
 proposal was first put forward in the budget, the expectation was that there was going to be a payback, either short-term or long-term, in cost savings. But that doesn't sound like that was one of your criteria.
 It was not a focus this year. The focus was, it's certainly out there, but the stronger focus was on the equity and opportunity that we heard from last year's panel and from council last year, as well as making sure that we are building an innovative culture within the city. Other questions for the team?
 Fred, I note that two of the proposals were based on ideas submitted by people named Bradway. So I'm wondering if you could talk to Anna Canwitt about expanding our Bradway recruitment effort. I'll certainly take that under advisement. Something genetic going on there. Thank you all very much. Anyone signed up to speak on this item? Yes, we have three people. Lightning, Michelle Munt, and Charles Johnson.
 Come on up. Okay, Lightning, you're on first. Thank you. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning PDX Rethink Lab. I definitely like this innovation fund, and a lot of the ideas I think being presented are actually very good ideas, and I come from more of a side of creativity and creating your own ideas, and I think this is really a great thing to have. I'm looking at the funding I was a little bit more interested on earlier,
 the amounts that you funded toward different projects. I didn't know if that would be like across the board, say at $50,000 each one, but I noticed you have different amounts, so I wasn't really quite sure how you came up on providing more funding to one and quite a bit less for the other. So that's just something that I'll try to understand later. It's really based on what they requested, I think. Okay, you've answered my question to that. So I guess if...
 some people might have put in a higher number, they might have possibly gotten higher. So that's a fair answer. Now, one of the things that I like about this, and I'm referring mainly on the homelessness on the data sharing, what I'd like to see possibly is more data on more of a daily count of people that are homeless, say, on a quarterly basis out through the city. But why I mention that is I want to see more of a,
 maybe a more of a sophisticated system set up to where we really monitor that number. And I'm talking about where people get their food, if they're chronically homeless outside. I want to have that data to really understand that number, how it's changing, how it's changing with the population, with people moving out of the state, people moving into the state, etc.
 I really want that number to even be broken down to central downtown, east side, certain areas by the block. I want that number accessed. I want it accessed on a quarterly basis. And I want to understand on when we look at those numbers, how much more housing do we need? How much more services do we need? How much more money do we need? But we need to have that number, and I know that number changes all the time.
 But it's a very important number to have on a quarterly basis to project out on what we really need to do each year. Again, on the property management, accurate, really real property management, I want to have a closer eye on the real estate assets of the city. I want to understand a lot of other areas. So let's really focus on that. Now, one other issue on this funding, I don't have an issue on how it's being funded or
 Can we present this as one future potential to a foundation to cover this cost, to match this, and to cover the cost for the city? I think this is very beneficial. I would think a lot of foundations would be open to discussing this and understanding the benefits throughout the city. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Charles? Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm glad that Lightning retouched on the issue of –
 homelessness. I know that it's a difficult issue for to find funding in places, you know, there are federal restrictions. We really, we kind of know that we just need more units and Commissioner Schaltzman and all of you have worked to take steps in that direction. Last night I was particularly aware of which doorways already had people asleep prior towards 10 o'clock and I hope that
 Next year we might have some capacity to directly approach people and engage, have a facility where we can actually rescue people and actually just accost people and actually be glad that some homeless people, all they want to do is rest. They would prefer to do it in a warmed structure, but we don't have any warmed structures available for them. And I hope that next year we will have a place where maybe we can have a program that actually helps
 does what good people can do but people are really afraid to do with their home and that's actually go find sleeping people and say there's a cot there's a mat in a certain place and not only do it when the temperature is ridiculously low. The other I originally came up because of course as the mayor noted we get to say widget in the record
 Really? When does that ever happen? And I did get a chance to research the widget project, but I have seen on Facebook multiple people complaining about water quality and sediment. And I hope that Commissioner Fish will have a chance to work with the widget guy.
 and maybe move to the front of the Water Bureau page a quality reporting widget, which even may perhaps proactively relieve some of the higher workload that comes up so that when data comes in and says that there's a sediment problem in a certain area,
 It'll be easily found on the front page of the portlandoregon.gov slash water. And people may see a map where it's highlighted and that they can know that maybe a crew has been dispatched to do a sediment flush by opening a hydrant or whatever. And if there is a problem with call volume coming in, perhaps you can even...
 cost-effectively robo-call people and say, we're aware there's a sediment problem. There's no need to call a crew as dispatcher, such as the Chima service tracking ticket type thing. Thanks, y'all. Thank you for that suggestion, Charles. And we have 930-something thousand customers. And I get copied on some of the letters we get from customers. And I just want to do a shout-out to the customer service people because they really do a great job. And...
 We can always do things better in government, but that's one area that I can assure you there's a very high level of service and responsiveness. But we appreciate your suggestion. Anyone else? And if there are no further council questions, we'll take a roll call on the ordinance. Fritz? I voted for the budget, which includes this $1 million, and therefore I'm going to support this ordinance.
 I'm very concerned. Obviously, the list has many, many good projects. I'm very pleased that three of the 12 are Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm pleased that the bureaus are addressing the equity criteria. We...
 There may be other ways to fund these, and some of them may indeed be reprioritizing within the bureaus. If the main criteria this year was equity rather than on saving money, then I would suggest that bureaus should be reprioritizing their existing funding to be more equitable.
 I hope that, Mayor, that we have a specific discussion about this in this budget process about the Innovation Fund, because I'm not seeing the kind of cost-saving projects that I was hoping for when we allocated them.
 And I believe we should be looking at things like implementing 311, which is the most innovative thing that we have on the agenda right now. We know we're going to need millions of dollars for it, and that would be one way to dedicate this money. We know that we need more money to save in transportation to pay for paving so that we don't have expensive road repairs to be done. So I'm concerned that although these projects are all great and they do good things –
 Almost everything we're asked to do from before the council is proposing to do great things and there's a finite amount of money But I do respectfully vote aye Proposals and Thank You Fred Miller for your stewardship of this and the committee staff. Hi, so this man. Thank you I think the process as Fred said gets better each time. I know that from serving on the children's levy our process for our
 Making tough decisions about how to spend money when you have many more requests than you have money available. We have also improved our processes over time, and I think you're doing the same thing, and these sound like great proposals. Hi. Novick? Hi.
 I think this is just great. And I congratulate and thank the mayor for giving the bureaus an opportunity to show that we can be innovative and we can do significant things with small amounts of money. And I think that these are valuable things to do, but it's also an incredibly valuable message to send.
 So I'm pleased as punch with the whole idea and with the specific proposals this year. Thanks to Fred and his team for shepherding through the process. Thanks to all the bureaus for their proposals and their work. I think this is just awesome. Bye.
 Well, well done. I think the process is working well. Just reminiscing a little bit, the Council knows I'm going to be out of town next week. I'm going to be out of town next week for the same reason I was out of town two years ago the same week, and that is because I got invited to go to a U.S. Conference of Mayors meeting followed by a Saturday morning conference about innovation in cities, which Andrew Scott hosted.
 attended with me two years ago. And of course we heard the idea of an innovation fund and how it worked in other cities on that Saturday morning. But prior to that I was getting to know a few of the mayors at this meeting and it was a pretty impressive meeting. We got to meet with the president, members of his cabinet. But I was agonizing a little bit out loud to Greg Fisher who is the mayor of Louisville who is a little more experienced at this than I was.
 and said, I'm just still wondering how much time I should spend on any of this extracurricular stuff. I mean, it looks like the U.S. Conference of Mayors is a good thing. It looks like this Innovation Conference is worthwhile, but, you know, I need to be home minding the store. So how do you, you know, how do you, Greg, how do you strike that balance? And he said, well, Mayor, how many people do you have working for your city? Well, about 5,600. Why? He said, well, how many of them have in their job description big picture thinking or research and development?
 I thought, hmm, well, you could kind of say our bureau directors and council members are supposed to exercise big picture thinking, but I'm not sure if it's in our job description. I'm pretty sure almost no one has research and development in our job description. And, of course, this guy, if you've checked him out, is a very successful business person who then decided to spend a tour of duty in public service and
 I got the point, which is that we ought to exercise some big picture thinking, and we ought to exercise an effort at research and development. We ought to encourage people to try things and fail and try something else after that. And that's very much the idea here. So I got the point with him. I think we've all got the point that this is an idea worth doing at a modest scale with some that are going to succeed and some that won't, but every time we learn something. So I appreciate the great work being done in the bureaus,
 and by Fred and his team to evaluate these. And thank you, Sam and others who served on the committee. So far, so good. And I look forward to seeing what kind of widgets we hear about next year as well as the results of these widgets this time. Got to stop. Got to keep using that word. Aye. Okay, we have a couple more items on the calendar, and then we will take a recess. We have item 72,
 Pay claim of James Waters in the sum of $47,500 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Becky Chow with City Risk. The ordinance before you authorizes the settlement of a police use of force lawsuit brought against the City of Portland by James Waters.
 Mr. Waters was arrested during the service of a search warrant in April 2012. In the course of his arrest, Mr. Waters suffered physical injuries to his knee and calf when he was bitten by a police dog. Mr. Waters required medical treatment at a hospital.
 He brought a lawsuit seeking $5,700 in medical damages and $200,000 in non-economic pain and suffering damages. The trial was set for later this month, but in November, the parties participated in a day-long mediation session, at which time a tentative settlement of the case in the amount of $47,500 was reached.
 Risk management and the city attorney's office recommend this settlement to you as it minimizes the risks and future costs of proceeding with the litigation. Okay, thank you. Questions? Mayor, I'm wondering what kind of follow-up that has been with the Portland Police Bureau to look at this incident and what our policies are.
 Well, we have, of course, changed our policies for the use of force since 2012 when this incident occurred. What I don't know and I will find out is if we have specifically changed any of our policies relative to the use of canines. So good question. I'll go check on the answer to that question and report back to the rest of the council because I'm not sure if we've specifically addressed that.
 when and how you release a canine and under what circumstances, and that's kind of what was at issue here. Yes, thank you. That was part of my question. The other part was about employing the distraction device, and I would like to know what the policies are for when that's committed. Yeah, and, of course, all of our both current and proposed new policies are now being posted as we work on them, so it's a public process, not just here, but I will get back to you about both of those. Thank you.
 Other questions, council members? Anyone want to speak on this item? We have four people signed up. Okay, come on up. Michelle Munt, Mary Ann Schwab, and Charles Johnson. And we'll go with Joe Walsh. Mary Ann left. All right, Michelle's deferring. Mr. Johnson, Mr. Walsh, come on up. Joe, your wife is on the phone. I think you better talk to her before you say anything further. Yeah, stand and deliver. Okay. I'm never going to live this down. Yeah.
 For the record, I am the wifeless Charles Johnson. And I want to thank the mayor for having the policy that put this in review. Is it possible to disclose what council represented Mr. Waters? It's in the ordinance. Okay, I didn't see it in the brief summary in the page that I looked at. Greg Kifori. Shocking. That's why I didn't have a chance to verify that on my way in. Thanks. Okay. Mr. Walsh.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. There were three things that jumped out at me about this item. The first one is that I know the lawyers that are involved in this and they're friends of mine. That's the first thing that jumped out. The second thing that jumped out is the supporting documentation is very limited. It's the most limited that I've ever seen in a claim. Right.
 And I don't understand that. It jumped out at me. It's very little information. You asked the question, have you changed the policy? There's an indication in the supporting documentation, but it's not very firm. It just implies that you have changed your policy about releasing the dogs on misdemeanors. So it would have to be a serious phone before you would release the dogs. The question.
 The third one is that it wasn't under consent agenda, and I want to...
 tell you, Mayor, how much I appreciate that. Because I think the people that are watching this and the people in the audience have a right to know what's going on. And this is something that's happened, especially with our police department. They need to know what's going on. They need to know what happened. They need to know if there was any, uh,
 Action that was taken by the police department to reevaluate it, to look at the officer, how that happened, what happened with the warrant, was the charges dismissed? All that information may not belong to me, but I'm asking you to make it belong to you.
 because you should understand what happened in this, and I do appreciate that you took it out of consent agenda, which for your TV audience means no discussion. So you opened it up to discussion, and I do appreciate that. Thanks very much. And I do want to encourage you, Mayor, that this afternoon we'll be talking about the crowd control policing report, and I hope that for people who are interested that there will be some sort of summary tracking so that we can know over the course of policing in Portland
 Has litigation against the police gone down? How many specific incidents? I think that's something that would be in line with good government and your standards for good government. Thank you. Good. Thank you. Good suggestion. Okay. No one else to speak on this item? Then roll call on this item, please. Fritz? Is that an emergency? Yes. Thank you for the explanation and for looking into getting my team on the policies. Thank you for the testimony and appreciation. I hope your wife is forgiving of your doing that. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Hales? Aye. And one more, 73.
 Authorize contracts as required with seven firms for construction management and roof and building envelope investigation and design services in support of Portland Parks and Recreation Projects. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales. It's my job and delight to bring this ordinance to council and to pass it over to Kia Selle for the presentation. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Kia Selle. I'm the Portland Parks and Recreation Planning Development and Asset Manager. I'm here today to request Council approval via ordinance of seven on-call contracts of $150,000 each for construction management and roof and building envelope investigation and design services. Thank you.
 The request for proposal announcement was placed on the city's procurement website, and a city minority evaluator was a member of each review panel. Four of the seven firms that we selected are certified MWESBs. In other words, they're certified minority women or emerging small businesses. Two firms are minority-owned, and two firms are women-owned.
 The remaining three firms are required to allocate at least 20% of their task order work to certified MWESB firms if that additional expertise is needed. We use on-call contracts for small to medium-sized routine projects and for small to large urgent projects or emergency projects. These contracts help us quickly access skills and experience, often for skills and experience that are not within our team's bailiwick.
 For large projects, such as beach and gateway parks, we issued a project-specific request for proposal for design services because of the size of the contracts. Issuing a project-specific RFP, we think, is the right thing to do for large projects, but it takes a lot of time and resources, often up to six months from the beginning of the request for proposal process to the inking of the contract.
 Most of our existing on-call contracts are for amounts less than $100,000. We currently have 17 categories of these on-call contracts, such as landscape architecture, architecture, engineering. We decided to increase these particular contracts to $150,000 based on our recent experience.
 We recently used an Oncom contract for the Charles Jordan Community Center roof project and found that the scale of a facility roof project required a large contract amount, over $100,000. We've also found the same to be true for construction services, construction management services, such as for the South Waterfront Greenway project. When we need these specialized construction management services, they're often for very large and very complex projects.
 So that commands a requirement for a larger contract size, over $100,000. So this concludes my comments, but I'm happy to take any questions you might have. Questions? Anything to add? Thank you both. Thanks very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then we'll take a roll call vote.
 Thank you very much for the presentation. And Dale Cook and Sarah Drake also provided a lot of early briefings to my staff. I also want to thank Mike Abate for his support of this program, this project, this series of projects. It's an emergency to avoid service disruptions and to contract for the two projects in progress when the contracts expired in December of 2014. And I'm particularly proud of the minority and women support
 component of these contracts. Four of the seven firms are minority and or women. A couple of them are also ESBs, but that's wonderful. And 57% minority and women in the contract. So we are putting our money where our hearts and our minds and our mouths are. And I'm very proud of that.
 Fish. Nice work, and I don't want to create additional work, but I'm going to ask my two bureaus to talk to you about how you got such robust participation, particularly where you have the commitment that was made to get to between 20% and 30% from some of these firms. Thank you for your good work. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Good work. Very impressive results with minority and women-owned businesses. Good work. Aye. Novick. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Yeah, this not only is impressive in itself, but it has such leverage. As it happens, I was up late last night at the kitchen counter helping my stepdaughter, Carolyn, who's a civil engineer, work on her resume for what she hopes will be her next job. And getting these on-call contracts, whether it's for a firm or for an individual, because actually this will affect individual engineers' lives who work for these firms because then they will have that kind of project experience.
 So for her, as a young engineer trying to show that she really has the credentials, each time you get a project like this where you have this on-call contract, you get to do a variety of tasks for a major client, the city of Portland, it really does have a catalytic effect on the emerging minority women-owned businesses.
 that are listed here, but also for the individual people that work for those firms. And I just saw that illustrated last night as it happened. So I can really appreciate the special value of what you've accomplished here. This is great. Well done. Aye.
 I have one more task, which is to set a city council meeting for January 20th at 4 p.m. 4. 4, because of other scheduling issues. So I think your staff says you're available. So I think we're clear. What's the issue, Mayor? The referral of the candidate measures under the street fund for the advisory vote.
 so are you anticipating that it will then go long enough that people can come after work at five i suspect it will go more than an hour and a half yes so if there's no objection i'll set that date and time for a special council meeting and we are recessed until 2 p.m
 We'll come back to order. Would you please call the roll, please? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Okay, we have a couple of items. Number 75, please.
 Appeal of David Bonadia against the noise variance granted to Anderson Construction for the Unico Overton Apartment Project located at the block bounded by Northwest 12th Avenue, Northwest Overton Street, Northwest 13th Avenue, and Northwest Pettigrove Street. I think we have a member of the Noise Review Board and staff here to speak. I just want to say I appreciate the work that you're doing.
 Both our volunteers and our staff have done in this case and many others. I think this case kind of demonstrates to me that the system works, and your role in making it work in this case is much appreciated. So welcome, David Sweet and Paul Van Orden. I'm not sure who's on first, but we're glad you're here.
 i'll jump in paul van orden noise control officer for the city just a little background today we're revisiting an appeal of a staff approved noise variance for crane operations and early morning concrete pours in particular the appellant david vanadia asked that city council overturned one particular item in our noise variance which was a year-long element that would have allowed up to 10 sundays of work for crane erections and demobilizations
 the delivery of large-sized materials so it was for those two particular elements the cranes and bringing in large elements and in our last council hearing on this particular item council had asked the contractor and the appellant to mediate regarding the Sunday work and
 The item was easily resolved insofar as Anaheim Construction made a decision that the 10 contingency days of work on Sundays were something they could remove from the table and give the neighbors a respite on Sundays and that there would not be a need for mediation. So that item was rather easily resolved in terms of their request to do that Sunday work.
 There were several other items that council asked staff to research regarding this item and to also check in with the city attorney's office and find out some possible options. One concern regarded the almost ubiquitous EX zoning in the Pearl and exploring the concern that EX zoning is a mixed-use type of zoning, more or less, that allows a higher decibel level.
 And in our exploration of the EX zoning, the interesting thing that came out is quite clearly planning is looking at both through the comp plan and more so specifically for central city elements of planning concerns. What's the best situation in the Pearl for zoning? So there really wasn't a particular concern.
 avenue for the noise office to push to change the zoning in the pearl or to make changes to zoning that compounded with the fact that ex zoning does appear in lots of different neighborhoods in the city and making a specific change to the noise code to ex would really need quite a bit of research because you'd be talking about a myriad of neighborhoods that might have one lot several parcels with ex zoning so it wouldn't really be a simple fix that would help the
 reduce the decibel level in the Pearl, for instance, not to mention the concept that the Pearl is someplace that we see as having the beneficial element of mixed-use zone, things happening that EX permits that another zoning or limitation on the decibel level would create some challenges. Yeah, if I may, David Sweet, the mixed-use zone,
 zoning task force that's working on issues around mixed use right now intends to roll the zone into a commercial zone that will be one of the mixed use zones at that point.
 Clearly designated as commercial will be changing the noise code to consider EX zone, a commercial zone, which will reduce the allowed noise levels in the Pearl and in other EX zones. It will reduce it or increase it? It will reduce what's allowed.
 Why it will change because? commercial zones are Allowed to make less noise than industrial zones and the X is currently considered industrial, right? Yeah, that will help
 Good. Questions for Dave and Paul? Paul, I have a question. When did you grow that beard? Dan and I would both have the same reaction, but we were wondering when Paul was going to show up. It takes about a month and a half. It grows that quick. Now you can do your work in a stealthy manner. Until I change the look again. Undercover. Undercover. Undercover noise officer. So do we have it in writing that Anderson will not be working on Sundays? Yes.
 Their variance, I might not actually have an extra copy. Their variance was changed and it was pulled right out of their variance. So they had a revised variance, which by chance I think I did grab extra copies. And the revised variance clearly states that, well, it doesn't state Sundays. The Sundays are just removed. And let's see if I have an extra copy. So, Commissioner, the nature of the variance is that it identifies what is allowed. So if Sundays are not included, then Sundays would be off the table. Thank you. So...
 Do we need to enter, because presumably, I mean, this appeal is against the noise variance. This is now a new noise variance. What's the procedural path forward here?
 Well, this revised variance was issued to Anderson officially. So this is their official document that says this is now what your variance has been revised to state because the noise control officer in the conditions they originally received, there was a or is always a condition that based on complaints and other concerns, we can revise their noise variance. So they've actually formally received this. These are the conditions they're operating under. So unless...
 Ben happened to say that we need to do something more official. I think we've legally told them that they no longer have Sundays, and this is the variance they have to operate under. And our current noise ordinance and construction ordinances don't allow Sundays, which is why they wanted the variance in the first place, correct?
 This is always the tough part. The code doesn't say you absolutely can't work on Sundays. It says that you can't exceed the permitted decibel levels, which basically means you can do things like paint and bring sheetrock and plumbing materials and work inside a building. So they're actually just asking for a variance, not philosophically to work on Sundays, but to make more noise than they can legally make on a Sunday. And the construction...
 Is construction allowed in general that's not noisy allowed on Sundays? Yes. So what we have to do when we issue citations for people working on Sundays is we actually have to document that the body of work that they're doing is exceeding the baseline permitted decibel levels. But construction itself is allowed? Yes. Yes. Okay. And there was a discussion at the previous hearing about forbidding noisy activities such as cutting metal before 6 a.m.?
 And we did not look to write a specific regulation to the code to write the code in that fashion at this point. That is something that could go through the noise review board. What we focused on more so was the other items I didn't mention were including proving notification and the venue of review. But we did not have a specific dialogue around adding a new component of the code that just limited construction work on Sundays, for instance.
 I happened to be there when we were drafting the noise code in 1975-76.
 And the idea with construction was that there are certain construction activities that are so loud that we couldn't set a reasonable decibel limit for them. So we set restricted hours instead. And so the permitted hours are 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Saturday. And within those hours, the sound levels permitted from construction are very permissive.
 Outside of those hours, they are the same as they would be for a rock band, an air conditioner, a stereo. So in fact, we do already have code saying that you cannot saw metal at 5.20. 6 a.m., no, you cannot. So then what's the penalty for that?
 for having done so? If it's a first citation, it's $300. If it's a second citation, it's $1,000. Third citation, $3,000. And after that, it's $5,000 for every citation after that.
 There is a philosophical dispute, which is part of the reason we're in an appeal today, that I think that many of the citizens you may be hearing from feel that the noise office is not issuing citations quick enough or in a large enough number on construction projects. So I think there's a little bit of a question that I don't know will easily be resolved here. And that's why in the last hearing I tried to illustrate that just in –
 year and a half since there has been a transition from BDS to ONI, we've issued more citations in the noise office than we did in five or six years previous at BDS. So I'm not sure that that's, as staff, I'm obviously potentially biased, but I'd say that kind of improvement in a 25-year and career
 career in environmental law enforcement is a pretty good statistic to show that we're serious about issuing penalties it is indeed and even with or without beard there is only one of you and when i was in the commission in charge of the bureau of emergency communications noise complaints tended to get pretty far down the both um boeck and the police response and so we do rely on the police to respond at five o'clock in the morning i'm wondering uh
 Looking to my left and my right, the commissioner is in charge of police and BOAC. If there can be a directive that for egregious noise violations, not just your noisy party, but for things that are actually...
 specifically called out in code, such as not sewing through metal at 5 o'clock in the morning, that there could be some directive that, in fact, police would respond and cite. Already underway, actually. I'm glad you brought that up because Chief O'Day has directed that Deanna and my office and Paul will be working with the Bureau for additional training for officers on noise enforcement.
 So there may be only one of him, but there are a lot of people out there every day on behalf of the city in the form of police officers who should be assisting in the enforcement.
 So that's in the works, something that Chief O'Day believes we really ought to be doing in terms of neighborhood-based policing, and I agree. Yeah, well, especially for our downtown folks, anything adjacent to a construction site. And if you, as the commission in charge of police, could make sure that the BOEC dispatchers are aware that, in fact, the police will be prioritizing these kinds of noise complaints. I know that's a big issue.
 In the past, it's been, well, they may not be able to come within the next two hours, by which time it's long past when the construction hours are over. I'd like that. So just going back to notification, Paul, where did you get to on notification? Yeah.
 So improved notification as requested by council. In the short term, we tried to work with Anderson because they have several projects going on at once, as well as now Walsh Construction within close proximity of the same area. Their last request to do some early morning concrete pours, we actually had them do notification to all the surrounding buildings within a two, two-and-a-half block radius.
 They handed out approximately just under 1,000 notices to those buildings, and then we followed up by requiring the folks at Anderson to give us a business card from each building so we knew the person they reached out to and dropped off the notices for the tenants. Because it's not always...
 a possibility to literally get them into the hands of the tenants and they can't put them in people's mailboxes legally. So we followed up and called those businesses, or those building managers, I should say, and found that about a third of them had not yet passed them out to the neighbors. So the notification element,
 part of the equation that Anderson had to take care of, which is delivering the notices with an appropriate number, was verified to have been done correctly. The buildings passing them out to their tenants, we had some concerns that they weren't passed out until we actually called and said, we really need these in the hands of the tenants. That doesn't fix the problem completely in terms of
 notification directly to the tenants. Mailing could be a potential way to do business. The challenge there would be for a basic noise variance that might be one, two, three days of work. The mailing notification would be twice to three times the cost of what the noise variance is. So if council wanted us to go down that road, we could explore changing our notification component to require direct mailing to each person within a noise variance, but that was not where we arrived at at this point.
 the second component of notification improvements council in our dialogue last meeting we discussed the concept of trying to get a weekly notice out to neighbors and so two things we're doing in that area kathy couch is our main program specialist she's taking a class in february to be able to use the city's web page to post weekly our weekly notification of what variances have come in and we're still trying to iron out how we're going to
 email out a list because we're in the process of changing one of our other staff folks, Patrick Owen, who would normally be our person, to email out to all the neighborhood coalitions, interested parties, a list of the variances that come in that week. He's now segueing over to crime prevention, so we're in the midst of getting a new person and getting that person trained up. So that will be the other component of weekly emails as well as posting it on the DONI website. Okay.
 I appreciate that it can be posted on the website. However, if I'm a resident downtown, I'm not going to be checking your website every week to find out whether or not there's a variance. And similarly, if I'm a neighborhood association volunteer, I'm not necessarily going to take it upon myself to get that email and find out who's the proper authority. I thought we had discussed something like posting a notice in the elevators or some other kind of public place.
 As a matter of conditions that we're going to be putting in noise variances, they're going to actually have to have the formal noise variance on site, posted on site, because realistically, we've had some challenges with getting building folks to post them. It's not very hard for someone to take it down. It's the same component as giving it to a building manager, and they're not getting passed out. So when I...
 explore this concept, I'm not sure how, from a staffing perspective, I can be completely sure, one, that the noise variances were passed out to the neighbors, or two, that they're posted in an area where someone can see it. So it seems like the more appropriate way to do it is to have it right on site. When someone walks out, they'll see just like a land use notification. They'll see a notice that says there's a noise variance on file, and since they're fairly
 succinct documents, someone can actually see the actual variance and see the conditions. And the benefit we chatted about last meeting is if an officer responds and a neighbor is frustrated, they can actually, instead of something in their building, they can point and say, there's a notice right there and it says no work on a Sunday. Or there's a notice right there and it says saw cutting will cease at 9 o'clock p.m.,
 To be clear, all major construction projects long term such as the Selwood Bridge, the painting of the Broadway Bridge, major ODOT projects do come before the Noise Review Board. We do require the applicant to mail notices within the area that we expect to be impacted by them and we do hold a hearing on those.
 so here we're talking about issue variances that are ordinarily issued over the counter by staff and uh i have asked that uh where it's feasible uh all construction variances in the in the pearl district uh at this time be referred to the noise review board for a judic
 adjudication and we do we are asking the applicant to distribute notices we're not asking for mailed notices which would be very expensive but we are asking them for construction noise in the pearl that
 that they distribute notices within a reasonable impact area, and we do hold a hearing. We have one coming up tonight where we'll consider a variance for seven concrete pours and a crane disassembly between now and May.
 I'm pleased to hear that you're going to have all of the projects in the PIRL refer to the Noise Board because my understanding is that 98 percent of the current applications are done by staff rather than going to the Board and that the Board Chair gets to choose which they listen to and which they don't. So Mayor, I'm really concerned about this is a specific case. I'm glad it came to Council because it's highlighted a number of the issues that we as policymakers need to have discussed.
 where are the written down
 administrative rules or understandings or resolution of all of these issues that we would then adopt into findings and give directions to staff at the very least to move forward. I don't know if we have to adopt findings in this case because it's not a strictly speaking land use case. It's a code compliance case. But nevertheless, the question of how do we enshrine the work that's been done here in some kind of
 Because it's not just this project. I get it. I understand that. So I'd like to hear your thoughts about that, both of you as volunteer chair and board member and you all as staff. How do we take what we learned in this case and apply it as policy?
 You know, I think the concept of improving notification, it's a matter of writing language into the permits that we try to consistently place in every single construction permit. One, to save time for the staff who pull that information together for me. And two, to make sure that we're being equitable and fair. So it wouldn't be logical to require new elements of notification and not have that appear in every single noise variance that goes out that's of a construction nature. Right.
 So I think in terms of what we have before us today, which is a construction noise variance and not a concert or another element of noise-making activity, it's pretty easy for us to standardize that as we have with a number of different conditions for variance types and just uniformly make sure that that's in every single permit. I don't know that there's a particular methodology to enshrine this in code or enshrine this in code.
 policies and practices of the Noise Review Board and of the Noise Office at this time? That's an interesting question. The board could so decide that they want to
 put this within their own policies and procedures. So, for instance, one of their internal policies and procedures they've decreed is the reason why many projects – or not the reason why, one of the protections that they have created as board is projects that are over a year long I can't review. They have to come to the noise review board. So this could potentially be something that the board could –
 into their policies and procedures and require that in that manner. I'm not sure if that's necessary if we're already going to put it into all of our conditions, but they could get in the way. I'd like to see something like that. And I'd actually like to see it come back to council for public comment, including your notion of posting at the site. I don't know if that's in code anywhere, right? So that needs to be – we've got a general understanding, thanks to the citizens who have brought this forward, and to your work and such on this particular case.
 New council another different noise officer perhaps at some point it needs to be written down And so I'd like to see that brought back to us in a revised policy for the noise board operation We can certainly do that. I think that makes sense good. Thank you so This has been very helpful. I'm not sure if there are those here to testify. We'll take that in a minute, but I
 So with the case before us, you sort of evolved from there. You've got a new variance that is better for the neighborhood than what was being appealed. So I assume that the correct disposition of the appeal is to deny it since we've moved past that. But have I got that right? Well, that might be a Ben question insofar as,
 You know, you could even, I think you could approve it. Are we approving it or are we denying it? Before we get to the disposition, could we find out if the appellant is here? Yeah, I know. I know we're going to conduct a hearing, but what are the options for the council? The options would be to deny the appeal as moot because there's a new variance. Right. To deny the appeal as moot.
 as just on its grounds, depending on the council's consideration, or to approve the appeal with the variance conditions as identified in the newly rewritten variance. Okay, I'm struggling with the third one because wouldn't that be redundant? Okay.
 Well, let's, again, I don't know what the appellant's arguments are at this point because the appellant has not made their presentation. What's the difference between dismissing as moot because there's a new variance or approving the appeal with the conditions of the variance? What's the legal difference?
 would be the basis of the, if they were to seek review going forward of the council's determination. And there is a right of review in the circuit court from here. So it would be. If the appellant is satisfied with the terms of the new variance, the cleanest thing to do would be to dismiss it as moot. Yes, I would agree. Because there's a new variance which is applicable. Okay.
 So we'll find out. We'll find out. I just have one final question for staff, and that is under the new variance, it says that the hours of the variance construction work shall be from 5 a.m. to 7 p.m., and then it goes on to say about the concrete pours. But then in Part G, it says the use of jackhammers and or pile drivers shall not be permitted outside the normal construction hours.
 So that doesn't include not allowing metal saws, cutting on metal outside of construction areas. Because we could write into conditions of a permit...
 500 different items that might potentially happen on a job site. Then why did you call out jackhammers or pile drivers? Because we do that on almost every project as a reminder and to make sure that neighbors are clear. And especially in this case where there's been a high level of sensitivity in the Pearl District around pile driving, that that has been a component that 20, 30, 40 neighbors have been vocal about today.
 We could write an additional condition, but at some point this becomes an exercise in trying to second guess which items might be used on a construction site and make noise. I thought the point of C is to say you could have this variance for these early morning concrete pours. And that's the only thing? It should say that then. It shouldn't say that and then in G say you can't do pile driving.
 I'm not sure I see your point insofar as we're reminding them. It's just a way to try and – this item winds up in the hands of citizens, and it's to help them when they read it. Because we've been second-guessed on conditions again and again. It's to help educate people that we are in no way approving pile driving before 7 a.m. Can you cut metal before 7 a.m.?
 Not if it exceeds the city noise code. It has to exceed a decibel amount. But whatever they're doing... So saw cutting in a job site this large, saw cutting metal, may potentially actually be in compliance with the city code if you're a block or two away. So I could not just simply say, here's a citation. If an officer showed up and they're a block away...
 And they wrote us a special report, which is what we're working to do, and said, I'm in my squad car. I hear these operations within my squad car. And forwarded a special report to us. I could use that to estimate a decibel level that's being operated on the site and issue a citation. Whereas jackhammering and pile driving is so bloody loud that there's not an easy way that you could do that in the middle of the night. So we're in a safe position to say, okay.
 thou shalt not do this outside of the construction hours of the city of Portland. It's more of an educational element to make sure neighbors know we have not issued any leeway with pile driving and jackhammering because it's one of the items we hear a lot of concern from citizens on.
 I think the wording of that condition might be improved to specify that. I agree with you, Commissioner. Other activities, including but not limited to jackhammers and pile driving. Yeah, it can be. The way it's worded is possibly confusing, and I, in future variances, will look to change that. Thank you. Other questions for volunteer staff?
 the only the only other component we didn't chat about which i assume someone might have a question on there was a bigger question for staff and for the city attorney's office on the venue of review and when we looked at that within the concept of two variances from a staff perspective being reviewed at a council level that did not seem to make sense to
 I organized the review back to the venue that's being – the venue that's actually directing the variants to be reviewed. So, in essence, the chair authorizes the noise control officer to review more basic noise variances, and it would be an interesting affair if we're appealing right back to the venue of review to begin with, so to speak. But it could be done. Okay.
 It seems like at this point with only two council appeals in 18 years that it may not be the time at this moment to do that. So I just wanted to make sure I reported on that component. Yeah. Good. Helpful. Other questions? Thank you both. Now we'll see if Mr. Venati is here and would like to testify. And anyone else? Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Well, where to begin?
 The Saw video that you saw last time turned out to not be in violation based on Paul viewing the video. That's what I was told. I've got an email. And he said, you know, it's very difficult to figure it out. Just like...
 Just as in the case of officers citing people for speeding with a calibrated radar detector to measure speed, in the noise office we rely on calibrated noise measurement equipment bridged with unbiased observations to issue a formal citation based on noise measurements, yada, yada. So it's really difficult because...
 When I got involved in the noise stuff here in our neighborhood, it was first take a log, then it was take photos, then it was get videos. It's been this carrot that I can't quite catch. I've heard him talk about hanging signs, the company's responsibility to hang signs. Yeah.
 That's been, I've heard that mentioned in the summer. It hasn't happened. I believe that the onus should be on the company. If the company is coming into a neighborhood, whether it's a small community, a large community, a lot of construction or a little construction, I think that the construction company ought to have the responsibility to understand
 to take care of their place in the neighborhood. And I don't think that's quite set up that way right now. Some of the things that Paul just mentioned, the business cards, there was a variance that got issued last month for this month that was supposed to be for last month. Anderson claims that they walked around. And, I mean, they didn't actually say they walked around. They implied that they walked around. It's very weird. But anyway, our neighborhood didn't receive them. So, yeah.
 I guess before I continue, my wife has drawn a letter, and it's just one page. I'd like to let her read it. Okay. So this is specifically for you, Mayor Hales. Last time we were here in October, I explained that the city of Portland – I'm sorry. Put your name in the record. Oh, I'm Gwen Seymour. I'm David's partner. Last time we were here in October, I explained to the city of Portland that the city of Portland has an enforcement problem when it comes to noise. Things look fine on paper, in the ordinance and in variances, but in practice, enforcement is broken. Okay.
 Two and a half months later, the situation is the same. ONI has told me that it does not wish to be a punitive agency, and I'm here to report that it succeeds brilliantly in that. Construction companies and developers alike are confident in just how not punitive ONI is.
 Today, I want to give you just one example of the noise office's reputation for being toothless, a reputation that has damaged livability in many areas around the city and has now reached the North Pearl District, where I have lived for the last seven years. In December 2012, a project across the street from me broke ground, and from the beginning, it violated the noise ordinance regularly. Over the 21 months of the project's major construction activity, I sometimes filed complaints with the city for the project's illegal activity and sometimes tried communicating directly with the construction company.
 Whatever I did had little effect on the project's illegal behavior, which included regular 5.30 a.m. starts, late evenings, and Sunday noise. In the end, after months of consistent wrongdoing, Oney fined the project just twice. And when the developer contested the fines, Oney removed the larger of the two and reduced the bill to $300. The fee was due in December. The developer has yet to pay."
 With that kind of slap on the wrist punishment, I suppose I should be grateful that construction companies aren't even more flagrant in their disregard for livability in my community. When just one construction project comes into a neighborhood, building in close proximity to people's homes, it damages livability for months on end. But when there are six sites in a two-block radius and two more breaking ground in the next few months, livability is impacted in a whole new way. If you add to that mix city agencies that fail to enforce noise ordinance and special variances,
 Livability no longer exists. My neighborhood will be in that condition through 2017 unless you make changes. You are the council person in charge of ONI and the police, the two law enforcement agencies that are refusing to place a leash on illegal construction activity. Please fix those agencies and remind developers that it doesn't make sense to destroy the community if they want their own buildings to flourish once they are complete. Thank you. Thank you.
 I like the idea of a review, like a follow-up. I don't think that this problem is solved. I'm glad that I managed to prevent Anderson from taking more hours from the community. However, they are still doing it.
 taking hours from the community, they're taking from the community. This Saturday they did a concrete pour, and they had a variance for that. But the language in the variance doesn't get followed. So, for instance, in the variance it said that they should have no more than two concrete trucks on site. They had five pumps, which means they had two trucks at each pump with two trucks in waiting, so at least ten trucks surrounding the entire block and just going from 5 a.m.,
 And, um...
 On top of that, just next to our building, there are two large sites that they use for staging, which has dirt and equipment on it. And they brought in a huge convoy of dump trucks before 7 a.m., which lined up, queued underneath apartment windows, and started taking dirt away. And all of this was happening at the same time. So there was some variance activity, and then there's this other activity. Now, the community is completely confused. I mean, I've been involved in this process
 and put in way too many hours to figure out how all this stuff is working to actually finally get here before you today. And most neighbors don't know what to do, and they wake up, they go out in their pajamas and their coats. I sent an email, I think maybe some of you might have seen it, and they ask some questions, and they just don't have the time to be able to pursue all of this stuff. And when I go to the noise board, noise office,
 particularly, and I say, look, this is what happened. They say, hey, we'll monitor it. We'll take your complaint into account. And nothing happens. Nothing has changed at all. Nothing has changed.
 So I would love to do a review. I'm happy to answer any questions. But I think it would be good to revisit this issue. MR. David, you've raised and Commissioner Fritz has raised code issues, review issues, and thank you for framing those for us because there's a bigger fix here.
 The other piece of what's before us today is the specific appeal and the new variance which has been issued. Yes. Are you satisfied with that new variance? Understanding that you would like to have a broader set of issues addressed. I don't.
 I want to lock in on that. I am, as far as specifically to this appeal that I requested that it be revised to remove Sundays for work days and that that has been done, to that degree, I am satisfied. Thank you.
 Okay, but you've also identified a cluster of issues that need, obviously, more attention by the council. So do you have any objection if we were to dismiss the appeal on the basis of the fact that there's a new variance and, therefore, that's in effect with your right to come back to us if that's violated? I would like to do that with the stipulation that we are going to,
 I am going to come back to you, and we are going to revisit this, have that built in if possible, rather than me have to start up any kind of initiative to make it happen. Because to be frank, I feel like...
 Yeah, I got this piece of paper that says something on it, but I'm just counting the days before some kind of large construction happens on that site, and I can't call ONI because they're not working on Sunday, and they don't do anything, and I can't call the police because the police don't do anything either. And so that's how I feel. It's a frustrating feeling. So I would really like to accept this opportunity
 variance as it's written here, but with the condition that we meet again to follow up on whether it's effective. Is that fair? Let's look at some options. The chiefs here, Chad and Rachel from my staff are here. We might want to get some combination of them to respond to what we might do next, not just with this appeal. Well, Mayor, rather than keep the record open, which I guess we could continue this,
 since it appears that you and commissioner fritz have an appetite to look at the code issues seems to me that if if there was a meeting scheduled next couple months to begin that conversation that could also be a meeting to this to discuss any shortfalls in this in these projects yeah i'm sensitive to this question of you know how how bankable is this new variance
 How much can you rely on that? I hear you about that. So one option would be to just simply continue the appeal rather than end it because it's not a land use case. We're not under some 120-day rule or something. We can continue the appeal and let the work that I described earlier continue, which is to have the police bureau training taking place that's going on and to have more ears on the street, if you don't mind the bad pun.
 Set a date for six weeks. And then return to it. Give you a chance to see how it's working and say how it's working. Well, if we're all here right now, if I may, I would love to hear from them. I would like to be able to even talk with them because it would be awesome to get a commitment, some sort of a promise. Let's do that. Let's do that. Let's appreciate you two. Anyone else that wanted to speak on this? I actually have a question.
 You noted that the site has not yet been posted. If it were posted, do you think that's an appropriate mechanism of letting neighbors know about the variants? No. I think it's helpful because it at least allows people to go to that specific site. They might be able to see what the rules are for that specific site. But it's been very difficult. I mean, when you looked at this piece of paper, it's like, what does this mean? What does that mean? It's very difficult for people to juggle...
 figuring out this stuff.
 on top of everyday matters and family matters. So what would you like to see in terms of notification? I would definitely like to see more enforcement, because I feel like the enforcement would help. As far as notification goes, I think that having the company reaching out directly to citizens would be very helpful. In fact, so there was a building next to us called the Parker, which was recently completed after two years. And the developer there, who was
 for his, he was having a grand opening party, and for that he managed to make sure that everybody in our building got a notice that said, we're having a party and it's going to be noisy. And how did you get that notice? Was it mailed? It was directly mailed. They used a particular organization, which I do know the name of it. I could find that out. But they used a particular type of business that does direct mailings. And so that was pretty, I think, effective. Let me make a counter-argument, because...
 Because last time when we had this conversation, I was looking at a more robust notification system. Now that I have a demolition going on next door to my house, I've actually come to appreciate the fact that I know there's one place I can go to check all the notices. Yeah. And it's right there. Yeah. And if that's not up to date, then there's a real problem. Right. Putting aside the porta potty that was knocked over and some of the other trees that were cut down without a permit. Put all that aside. I know there's one place I can go to get the current documents. Sure. Yeah.
 I actually probably might be overly confused if I got five or six notices for all the things that are going on in my neighborhood and would have trouble matching which and what. There is something, I would just say personally, comforting to know that I can go to the construction site and there it is.
 And that's a big no-no if it isn't there. Well, what about if you had six sites right around your – six demolitions – Let's just say – but if I had six sites – and you had to figure out which ones they were, and you had to go to six different websites and keep track of six different sites? I'm with you. I mean, I'll go as far – I mean, I'm happy to do as much notification as you want – – we're playing the game. – because I'm all for notification. But I would still – I might, as a – as someone living in that community, start getting confused by getting six or seven letters.
 and have trouble matching it to which site and what's going on. Yeah. Having watchdogs in the neighborhood that check each site would give me some comfort, but I'm not –
 I'm for more notification. OK, I see. I don't want to overwhelm people. Part of that could be that the companies could take feedback from citizens about how to notify better. I actually just sent some to Anderson and to Oney. And Oney thanked me for my comment, and Anderson just didn't reply. I just asked them to, in their email notifications, state the variance number and state when they'd be working outside of time, like right in the subject line. Because that's the most important thing, right? What you want to know is when it's outside of normal hours.
 And I would also hope that the building manager is being a little more proactive on this. In this case, a lot of times the construction companies come before the manager is there and they just tape the stuff onto their door and the cleaning people take it away because it looks like trash. If the construction companies would come during normal working hours and speak to the managers, that would be real community outreach, actual community outreach. But that does happen. That does happen sometimes. The construction managers speak to the building managers. For instance...
 Today, someone from Walsh Construction told our building manager that Walsh Construction will be going tonight to the noise board to apply for a variance for February. Now, the building manager told me, oh, we'll put a notice up tomorrow to let the citizens know. Well, that doesn't work. And this is what I mentioned in my presentation last time I was here, is the companies, they seem to know enough ahead of time to be able to organize having
 50 or 100 trucks come through the neighborhood filled with concrete and time, all that stuff, they can put an $80 million tower up. But when it comes time to, like, notifying the citizens ahead of time, giving citizens enough time to give their feedback, then the logistics become really hard for them. So, for instance, I think...
 With more stuff, if I got, let's say there were six sites around me and I got six notifications that were really clear, then I could say, oh, this is that site over here because there's a little map on here and it shows me the days. It also tallies that that particular place has, let's say they've got 40 days on their variance and they've now used three and they're going to use four, five, and six on this weekend. Because it's right now the way it works is it's up to the company to provide their own oversight.
 and the city doesn't do that. And so that ends up forcing citizens to have to join in the oversight. I want you to know that misery loves company. I got a letter recently from a state agency that said, and I quote,
 This letter was previously sent to you but returned to us, meaning wrong address. We are resending it, but the statute has run for you to challenge the determination in the document because you did not respond from such and such date when we issued the ruling. Right.
 Well, how about we just don't do variances? I think I can help you with that. I'm not a lawyer, but I think I can help you with that. So I really appreciate this input, and especially on the notification. These are the kinds of things that I would like to see in administrative rules or policies for the noise board, because clearly if they were going to the noise board tonight, they knew about that ahead of time. So there could be, in other...
 Andrew's case is there are stipulations about how far in advance you need to notify the neighbors. So these are the kinds of things we'd like to work out with you because I and previously this in my
 with the Council, six years on it and being a neighbor before. We haven't had this kind of robust discussion of the noise program, and I very much appreciate you bringing this appeal. Clearly there's a number of committed citizen volunteers and staff who, you know, the small number that they have need reinforcements, for instance, from the police and emergency communications to do the enforcement after hours. So thank you very much for raising all these questions.
 I'm sorry, I have one last thing about that. The, because, I think partially because citizens have been active in going to the noise board meetings, David Sweet requested that the Pearl District Council
 variances go through the noise board, which we very much appreciate because it gives more voice to the process. This has also caused a little bit of a bottleneck now because the particular variance that Walsh wants to do in February, they don't want to wait until the February meeting. They want to do it in this month. Having, as you mentioned, just one person managing
 and being the only person that can sign off on these variances for the entire city is really a terrible way to work, I think. Thank you. Okay. I appreciate it. Thank you. Anything else you want to add? And then I don't know if there's anyone else that wants to speak on this. I'm going to suggest instead both because we're missing some people that would be in this discussion like Amy Archer.
 and because we have another time certain, that instead of having them respond now, and I also need the chief to do something else here in a minute, that we instead get you and the police bureau and the noise staff and maybe Mr. Sweet together, even starting outside in the hall after this. You can borrow my conference room. Yeah, or in our conference room. Okay.
 And is that officially recorded? Well, I'm saying we need to kind of move into a workshop mode rather than a formal hearing. I want to continue the appeal because I'd rather leave it on the table here, both to give you some leverage and to give the council a chance to revisit how some of this stuff is working because the chief's about to start training some officers and staff.
 having more than one Paul Van Orden out there. That's going to take a little time, but not that long. Well, let's just get trained officers because one more Paul Van Orden might not do anything. So I'm going to continue the hearing but give you a chance to have that conversation outside of the formalities of this meeting. I don't know, Mary Ellen, did you want to speak on this? I just wanted to say that I got a couple brief comments. Come on up. Come on up. Thank you both. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mary Helen Kincaid, since we didn't know. I'm the one that kind of stirred the hornet's nest on this, so I kind of feel a little bit responsible because there's really responsible citizens, really talented noise office staff, and my experience with DRAC has been that when you get all the convergent people in the room, you get good things to happen. And I just said to Nick and Patsy, we need to get these people in the room. So I very much appreciate that, and I want to support that because I think good things can happen. And we've got some things with DRAC as far as notification and demolitions happening,
 that I think we can use existing process to do. So I think that's a very important piece of this, that that directive happens. Because if they don't get the information, they're unhappy. If they get the information, they can still be unhappy, but at least they're informed. Exactly. Yeah, that's what we want to get to. So thank you. Appreciate that. Thank you.
 Okay, so unless there's anyone else who wants to testify, then I'm going to continue the hearing and ask that we have just that discussion as soon as possible, including today or starting today, and that we'll report back to the council as well as to the folks in the community that are concerned about this. Okay. Do you want to set a date? We're going to continue it to, what, 30 days from now? Sound about right? 14th. Since we've got stuff. Okay.
 In the next couple of weeks that might occupy our attention. Think about another hour. Let's just set a time certain in a Wednesday or Thursday afternoon. Thursday afternoon on the 19th is available. OK, let's take that. February 19th at 2 PM. OK. Does that work for you, appellate? Does that work for everybody? Ms. Menea, does that work for you? OK. OK. Thank you. Thank you very much. All right, let's move to item 76.
 Accept report on crowd control and the Portland police, a policy review conducted by the crowd control work group of the citizen review committee. Chief O'Day and others are here to present this report. And I think it's the chief's first official appearance in front of the city council as chief. Welcome. Thank you. And I think it would be most appropriate for them to present their report first and then I'll follow on. Great. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Derek Reinke and I am the research analyst with the Auditor's Independent Police Review Division. I'm responsible for the division's database, all of our tracking of trends, most of the reports you see come out of our office. I have some kind of hand in those.
 In addition to basic operating stats that we report quarterly and annually, we also do various policy reviews. You may have seen our recent hip-hop review that our director had a hand in. The Citizen Review Committee also does a number of policy reviews. The 11 volunteer committees.
 Volunteers on the CRC listen to community input. They conduct reviews and research. They make policy recommendations in addition to their regular hearing of appeals and general advising of the IPR and the Police Bureau. They form work groups or subcommittees that review areas of public concern. And another part of my role with IPR is to strongly support these research efforts, facilitate and coordinate whatever kind of –
 national research or other things that they might need to do in those roles. So the report that you have in front of you is the end product of the crowd control workgroup, which was formed in the wake of Occupy Portland, not the more recent events, but this is more of an effort that's been going on for about two years, where this workgroup started off holding a large public forum with a lot of the Occupy Portland folks, and then they started
 with interviews and meetings with representatives of folks from Portland Cop Watch, from the AMA Coalition, ACLU, and National Lawyers Guild, a few local defense attorneys, one judge here in Portland that heard many of the Occupy cases. They then started talking with some other groups like the OIR group, which is consultants that come in and review the Bureau's officer-involved shootings.
 They talked with some folks from the city attorney's office and they asked some questions and had meetings with the police bureau's incident command and rapid response teams.
 They also invested time walking along at protest marches. They were involved in May Day and some other events like that. They walked both within the crowd and at some other events. They shadowed the Bureau's responders, attending some of the Bureau's pre-planning meetings and some of their roll call events and things like that before marches. So I think this is a work product that's been informed by a number of different angles and certainly developed with a lot of volunteer time and effort on their behalf. I also wanted to highlight quickly that,
 what this report is not. And I don't do this often, but I think in this case it's kind of important. So this report is not a comment on the Bureau's proposed revisions of the crowd control directives.
 So there was a little bit of confusion there based on the timing. The Bureau is doing a process now where every month or so they're posting two, three, four directives at a time up for public comment. And it just happened that the crowd control directive, they'd made some changes to that, and they posted this the month of September up for public comment.
 The work group that had been going on for about two years was very close to an end product, about 90 percent done. And I think they used that kind of as a motivation or as a window of, let's get our stuff done, get it off to the Bureau while they are studying this particular area.
 So, the report itself isn't necessarily a thorough review of any changes that were made to the directive. It's not necessarily a commentary on that. But based on the timing, it was something that they wanted to get in during that month. And to the Bureau's credit, they've held off on making final revisions to that directive until this CRC process wrapped up. And in fact, we've still been meeting. We had a meeting with the Chief just this week on Monday.
 where he probed us a little bit more about what was the thinking behind some of these recommendations and how could we take some action on those. So that was great. And also this report is not a comment or investigation of any specific incident.
 So just in the last few months, for example, we've seen since the Ferguson and New York City grand jury decisions, we've seen a number of protests and kind of a new series or a new wave of activity in Portland, especially on the Tuesday and Thursday surrounding Thanksgiving. IPR heard from 30 people on that Monday following Thanksgiving, and we are doing an independent investigation into what took place in those protest events. This report is more...
 the end product of a two-year look into the policies in this area. This time, let me introduce Rodney Parris, who's the chair of this work group. He's also the outgoing chair of the CRC. He'll discuss some of the group's major findings and recommendations. Rodney is wrapping up a three-year term on the CRC, so I hope you'll also join me in thanking him for his volunteer service to the city. Thank you.
 Thank you, Derek. Derek summed up our work pretty well, the process that we went through in working on this. You have the report in front of you. I'm not necessarily going to go through and read all of our recommendations. We did make a number of recommendations. I think you could put them into some logical groupings. The first grouping, I would say, has to do
 equipment, so both around sound trucks and name badges. We made recommendations to beef up the existing capability of the sound trucks. Officer O'Day did say at a more recent protest they had access to a more high-tech device from a manufacturer that they feel did improve their ability to communicate with the crowd. But I have been in other protests and heard a lot of public feedback that at times they
 The equipment that we had at some of those protests was not adequate to reach all members of the crowd, especially in a confusing, chaotic situation like that. With a lot of other noise going on, it sometimes led to miscommunications and misunderstandings about directions from the Bureau.
 The second one is around name badges. We heard a lot of feedback. One of probably the top things we heard from the community was their desire that all officers involved in Portland monitoring crowd situations have name badges. There have been in the past some jurisdictions that did not want to go along with that. So Chief O'Dea has done some work on that. I think there's been some agreements from some of those jurisdictions now.
 that that will be more standardized going forward, but we believe that's important. The next recommendation three was on crowd control training.
 The Portland Police Bureau has been conducting training for both themselves and other agencies around crowd control. We believe that's important, especially as we bring in other agencies to the city to help us. We want to make sure that those agencies have the same sort of training that our officers do and that we beef up the training for our own officers around how to handle crowds and deal with those difficult situations. Thank you.
 Number four is around the use of gear and military-style clothing and tools. Again, this was a common concern that we heard from the public, that the presence of that hard gear equipment can be something that they feel is inappropriate in some situations, that the Bureau feels that it's a good tool. But if you read some of the information from oversight agencies, from other jurisdictions,
 There is some best practice out there that keeping that out of a crowd control situation until you absolutely need it is a best practice. So the Bureau does do that and has been continuing that practice. We think that is the right approach, and to continue that or increase that, just to keep a de-escalation frame of mind until you really need that sort of tool.
 Again, you see a lot of that along with the Ferguson protests and some of the images you see from those protests of really where the police look more like soldiers. That was really the concern that we heard from the public.
 Community relations, again, this would probably be beyond just the scope of crowd control. I think the chief's recent appointment of a new command position to deal with community relations is important, I think. But even within the crowd control area, we think it's important. Yeah.
 Having police presence at some of these events, making sure they get out into the neighborhood and know the people that are involved in some of these protests. Officers should really have that as part of their job description to help develop trust and confidence in them by the individuals and people that they serve. Yeah.
 Again, going through some of these other ones that were, I'd say, more of the ones that we heard the most about, 7, 8, and 9, and 10 have to do with documentation and being transparent, making sure that the permitting process is clear and straightforward, that crowd expectations and information for crowds about how to get permits, what sort of things the police will and won't allow during a protest would be helpful for crowds, etc.
 Publishing standard operating procedure, I think the Bureau has some concerns that they wouldn't want to release confidential information about tactics. But even having those available so that they could be part of an audit by CRC or IPR even to make sure that they are following their own standard operating procedures, we feel that would be important. And things that can be released publicly about general standards, we think that would help to build that transparency and trust. Number 10 is around the crowd control directive itself.
 We feel that more should be written into that preamble around de-escalation as an effective tactic to avoid confrontation and just overall work on that directive, which is currently up for review and has been. And we are thankful that the Bureau held off on finalizing that until we could finalize our process. That was very helpful.
 Eleven is training officers on regarding speech not to target individuals based on political affiliations. We did hear from some members of the public that believed the Bureau unfairly targets people that were supposed anarchists or members of the black block, another group. We would encourage individualized assessments, not assessments of people based on their membership in a particular political group or organization.
 12 is, again, a little bit broader than just the crowd control situation, but we did hear from people that had a difficult time getting their property back after a crowd control incident where they may have been cited or arrested. We've heard about that from citizens in other areas as well, that sometimes those are held out far out in northwest Portland and people that may not have access to it. Hey, hey, please, let him speak. We'll let you speak, but you, ma'am, you need to let him speak.
 You need to let him speak. You'll be asked to leave if we can't let people speak. One more time, everybody gets to have their say, you also, but one at a time. Go ahead, sir. Okay, thank you. So making sure that that process is a robust process and fair to people that are involved in that situation. So those are our recommendations. As Mr. Reinke said, we did meet with Chief O'Day.
 Earlier this week, I think he's amenable to at least looking at most of these. I think there's some concern about a couple of them, but I'll let you speak about that. But again, we thank you for inviting us here to bring this important issue up. It's been an ongoing issue for years. I think we've kind of wrapped up our work, but this will be an ongoing issue.
 We know the CRC will have an important part to play on that as one of our main functions is gathering public feedback. So we will continue to do that. We hear complaints. We hear appeals on those complaints. So I know it will continue to be a focus of the CRC. Thanks for your volunteer service. I know we've got some questions. Thank you for your work on this report, and thank you for your work on the Citizens Review Committee. I'm curious as to why there's no discussion of the mounted patrol and the use of horses in crowd control.
 The use of horses came up a couple times from people in the public feeling it was overly intimidating. The Bureau's position on that is that they feel that's a useful tool to them.
 We didn't get too much into use of force, you know, use of batons, use of bikes during protests, pepper spray. We believe that the current use of force policy should apply to crowd situations as it would in any other situation. If there are complaints that they should be filed, we've seen a numerous number of complaints from some recent protests, and those would go through the normal process. We didn't feel like that should be part of our report at this time.
 trying to figure out use of force for each and every type of tool that a bureau may use in a crowd control situation. So let me just summarize what I think I just heard, that you would view a horse as a potential forceful weapon. It could be used that way. So in your minds it was no different than carrying a gun versus using a gun, riding a horse. It could be used that way. We didn't hear about any particular instances of it being used that way. Most of what we heard about was just people didn't like it.
 Didn't like it being there? We do have horse. So in IPR, we have horse as part of our force database. If we go in, it's a complaint about force. Horse drops down as part of a use of force database.
 in terms of how we count and structure things. So absolutely there's that acknowledgement that that can be something that causes injury that may not be appropriate into a large crowd. I think, and absolutely the work group heard that from the community over and over. They also went and explored and asked those questions of the incident commanders, of Commander Bob Day, I remember, in central precinct. And we were saying, you know,
 What are the concerns around this? From your perspective, are they useful? We hear these things that are negative about it. Why are you using them? What are the benefits from your perspective?
 And I think we heard some things as a work group where they felt, you know, we see both sides of this and can't really solve it. But from a community member's perspective, it wasn't a big enough issue for you to issue any kind of recommendations or that you felt it wasn't a problem at this point? We were trying to balance everything, you know, between the feedback we got from members of, I would say, people that are active in protests, other citizens,
 the Bureau, and just balancing all those inputs, we didn't feel like that rose to the level that we wanted to talk about in our report. There's other things as well that we didn't. Could you just list some of those other things? I mentioned before some of the specific use of force. Bicycles came up where some protests felt, officers would say that they used them for mobility, for getting around crowds, and there have been instances where they have used them as a wall to direct people. I think there have been complaints of,
 If you speak more about that, but there have been some feedback we got that officers may have used them to push people and there are jagged edges on those bikes. But again, we thought that would be a use of force. If there's a use of force complaint, it should fall under the regular use of force. Thank you. That's helpful. Other questions? Chief? Thank you.
 So last summer, late last summer, I had put out for public comment our revised directive. The directive was put out because we had made substantial changes, really, over the last two years in the way we manage both our crowd events, our protest events.
 I then became aware that the CRC was finishing up their work on that, so I directed the We Hold taking any action other than continuing to get the public input that we had on that until they finished their product. Then I could look at their product, meet with them, and then have a chance of incorporating that feedback into our process.
 I want to thank the work group for their process, most importantly for having a very informed perspective. Frequently we have thoughts and ideas on how we should do certain things, but without asking why do we do them the way we're doing now. So I really appreciate the process that the group went to, talking to protesters, talking to the community, talking to the police. That gives me a very valuable document to work from.
 Briefly, there's two major historical periods in the Police Bureau where we made changes around how we manage crowds. The first was back in 2003, 2004, when Commander Sizer was there, and ultimately she really refined our process in reflecting one of our major roles is to support free speech rather than try to control an event.
 And our next most major revision in our process has really been the last two years. We've been really active in formalizing specially trained crowd control incident commanders who are very up to speed on the capabilities of bicycle squads, of the rapid response team, of mobile field forces. And so with those changes brought the way we were doing business was not reflective of our 09 directive.
 So we put out that revised directive to better reflect what we were doing. And I can briefly go through the recommendations if you'll find that helpful or take any questions on any in particular, whichever you find best. Thank you.
 Wouldn't hurt to briefly go through this. Okay. The first recommendation they have on the sound trucks, we agree with. That's one that's been a challenge for us. The equipment that we have for making those notifications is not the highest quality. During the recent protest around Ferguson events, we had for several weeks the loan of a very new modern high piece of acoustical equipment that –
 Head and shoulders above, this technology completely addresses the concerns that they talk about here as far as the quality of language. Also, one of our revisions has been to always have a PPB member giving those notifications, and it's actually always a PPB supervisor or sergeant because of the authority that they have.
 Number two, the name badges, that is something that Captain Elmore, who's in charge of our rapid response team, has accomplished. He's got an agreement from all of our partner teams that support us in events that they will wear name tags, and they have done so since that agreement has been in place.
 Number three, the uniform crowd control training, the same. We have formalized spring and fall training. The other departments are invited and attend that training with us. If a department's team can't attend, they'll always send a supervisor so they stay current on the practices that we're doing and the expectations that we need.
 Number four, around use of the rapid response team and their protective safety gear. And this applies a little bit to the Mounted Patrol Unit, to your inquiry. Our crowd control incident commanders are very well trained in knowing that even showing the rapid response team and their protective safety gear, which we need for many different events, not all of them, but for many different events, they're a part of the planning process.
 We know that even showing them, so we keep them out of sight unless we need them. The same with the horses. They're generally out of sight unless we need them for a particular event as it has developed. Recently we had an occasion where we were caught a little bit short of resources in anticipating what we need for these different events. It's a little bit guesswork, a little bit science, a little bit history based on what information you have.
 So recently up at the, we had an event that was a two-part march. It ended up at the Moda Center and when it looked like folks wanted to get in the doors, the only resources that we still had at that point were the rapid response teams. So that's the one time that's happened where we've deployed them where we weren't, we wouldn't have intentionally deployed them had we had the adequate number of resources that we want.
 But know that that's a part of the crowd control incident commander's intent. And they know just showing them, let alone deploying them, what that effect can have. But they're a component that we need. We had these different events even recently where we've taken rocks and bottles and had to reclaim highways. So they're a part of our needed resources. Thank you.
 So what kinds of incidents would require a police in protective gear? The most recent example would be where a group of folks took control over the highway and started throwing rocks and bottles at the officers. And so that's not something you're going to want to have a regular officer in a uniform going, you need to have your protective helmet, your face mask, your safety gear for when that's happening. And do you generally wait until...
 it appears that people are going to be throwing stuff? It completely depends on the nature of the event. It may be that there's an opportunity, if that is what you're believing is going to happen, merely having the rapid response team roll by or deploy, and that can prevent that action from happening when they see that group of folks ready to prevent that from happening.
 Isn't that, your counsel, what you just said, though, that just by them showing up that can escalate things? Well, what you would not want to do is just have your rapid response team, you know, be, here's your people just managing any kind of crowd event. It may be that, you know, just showing them can have that effect, but it may be that, you know, an event has already gotten so bad you need to have them come in because of the things that you're taking. Okay.
 But there's very much, you know, because it's mentioned here, that just showing them can have effects. It can also have an effect of, oh, wait a second, there's the proper people here that are not going to let us do that as well. The frontline officer training about kind of keeping their cool, there's language in that draft from last summer that reflects that as well. And that's also part of all the incident commanders briefing.
 The permitting process, the Bureau doesn't really have a role in the permitting process. We have heard that maybe there's a way it could be more friendly. But also on the Police Bureau side, the fact if somebody has a permit or not doesn't automatically indicate to us there's going to be problems here. It just means it's going to be maybe harder for us to manage because we don't know the route. If folks aren't telling us, we don't know the duration, that type of stuff.
 so mayor is there any thought of having the police be more involved in the permitting process not as yet again once the permit is uh is is acquired by a group the police bureau is given a copy and informed that this event is going to take place so they can plan for it right yeah if uh if if uh an event holder is going to get a permit we then become a part of that process it's really up to the organizer
 Could I just make a comment on that? The feedback that we got was that the permitting process can be extremely cumbersome and lengthy for people that are involved in organizations that they would want to get a permit. So we don't want to discourage that. I think a permit can help the Bureau plan ahead of time and reduce the chance for conflict. So I think anything we can do to make that easier for citizens to get a permit should be explored. There are always going to be groups that don't want to get a permit. That's not part of their mission. They feel that's inappropriate.
 overly intrusive. But where it does work, I think that can be streamlined. Well, particularly where we might need crowd control and one route might be better than another, it would be both streamlining and encouraging more collaboration. And not just in protests, but think, well, including protests such as the naked bike ride, where it would be helpful to know ahead of time where folks were going to be going.
 No, thank you for that. Eight and nine, those were actually two points that I was looking forward to more conversation with the group and got some good ideas out of. We even try to be, at times, as best we can careful about even the words our PIO puts on set up. Traffic will be disruptive, maybe or maybe not.
 Traffic may be rerouted so that not necessarily saying this free speech event is going to disrupt or use a language that is maybe more inclusive around supporting free speech. One of the publishing procedures, there's very little. There will be a small amount of specific tactics that we wouldn't want to discuss, but our directive is pretty robust. That goes out for the public comment piece.
 and then that will be online. Training Advisory Council has full access to all of our lesson plans as well. But a piece of information through our discussion earlier this week that I found real helpful is maybe just putting together almost like a frequently asked questions website that generally we could spell out, you know, in general what our expectations would be. So it would be things like, you know, generally, you know, bridges are going to be off limits. You know, generally...
 access to the highways is not going to be tolerated, disrupting major transportation infrastructure. And just kind of breaking down those pieces. So that was a helpful conversation that I really, really appreciated earlier this week. And I want to just elaborate on that because I had some questions after one of the recent presentations.
 Events, not protests, but events, which again, I think you're right, reframing it, it's not disruption, it's a rerouting. It's part of what we do here in Portland. I think that's very important. So I got some feedback because you mentioned that bridges are off limits, and I said, why? And the answer is that some bridges people tend to climb when there's an event, and that's not safe. So it's then better to block off access to the climbable bridges, right?
 The bridges that have access to the freeway, obviously pedestrians on freeways is highly dangerous. And so that's another reason. So I hadn't connected those dots. And I think that explaining to citizens that we're not just arbitrarily making up rules, but this is why, I think that would be really helpful. Number 10, on kind of revising the crowd control preamble, talking about discretion, that
 That is talked about. These are not – we're specifically directing officers, no individual action. So that is part spelled out in our revised directive as well as reiterated when the incident commander does their intent during their original briefing process.
 Part of our revised preamble piece in the directive from last summer also reiterates right up front in our policy piece that one of the most important roles that the police have is to support free speech events as well.
 Number 11, talking about training officers to not target individuals, continuing training and discussing officers. That's ongoing. That's in discussion and briefings. We don't target specific people. We target behaviors or known histories of folks. So I've been a part of...
 uh... free speech and protest events since two thousand three and have seen some of the same people at every single event regardless of the cause uh... we know that there are some people that you know they have a history of you know their roles to disrupt cause damage or hijack events
 And so there's people like that we know. So what we will tend to do is focus officers around that, people with known specific histories like that. We have a finite amount of resources and a presence around people who have a known history of trying to hijack events or cause damage. That can help prevent that. But we don't target individuals based on the message in their speech. We don't target individuals based on their affiliation.
 Chief, could you just discuss the practice of so-called kettling, of having police surround particular folks and arrest everybody in an area? Yeah.
 Why would you do that? I've only recently heard that term. One of the crowd control techniques that the Bureau does have, if we have not been able to disperse people after repeated opportunities, the crowd control incident commander may make a decision, all right, we're going to arrest this group. We have given them, by the time we would do that, they would have been given multiple numerous warnings.
 to cease what they were doing. And how is that decision made? It's based on the incident commander. They've got a lot of different options.
 to them to include selective arrest, larger group arrest, but based on the totality of what they had, how much violence has gone on, what kind of property damage has happened, how many people have been hurt. But they'll look at the totality of that and of their many options, make a decision. Is that the best decision that they want to do? Okay.
 Many of these events will continue on, and when they get to the point of either causing damage or too much disruption, we'll continue until it stops being fun. Yes. At what point does the commissioner in charge, the mayor, get pulled into that policy decision of this has gone on too long? Well, the mayor is generally not going to be a part of an individual particular event. It will be in conversations with me around policy, around what is our practice, you know, what is his expectations around these events. Okay.
 But it would not be fair to him to call him in the middle of an event and say,
 What do you want us to do? His direction and his influence and conversation and expectation needs to be well prior to game day. Well, except that during the Occupy, the whole council was involved in how long is this going to go on? Will this particular demonstration, how is this going to be managed? When Mayor Adams was in Asia on a business trip, I was the president of the council, and I was involved on a day-to-day basis of we're expecting this. What is your expectation today?
 So I think particularly when some of these are political free speech. Yeah, I've been present for some of these events, and I do believe that it's my job to give general direction but not moment-to-moment management. I think having incident commanders who have directives that are written down and in the light of day and in public, which is what we're doing, and then have the discretion to make good decisions.
 and consequences for making bad ones on the scene works. For example, in one of the recent protests, I watched the incident commander say, you know, this particular group, based on the way they're operating, I think we should just let them go into the mall and have their protest inside the mall. And no police officer followed several hundred people into Pioneer Place. They chanted, held a moment of silence, and left the building, basically.
 I appreciate that incident commander having the discretion to make that judgment call and he made the right call in my opinion in that instance. Therefore for me to substitute my judgment moment for moment in a situation like that would be pretty absurd, but for me to lay down some expectations about the relationship between the police bureau and that particular free speech event is completely appropriate.
 The incident commander decides that he or she wants to stop or disperse a crowd because of whatever reason. They're not causing a problem. They may just be sitting in an intersection, for example. The incident commander makes that decision. You would then stand by that decision regardless of if that then precipitated adverse outcomes? Yes.
 I think that's pretty hypothetical. And know that for our incident commanders, they truly are very specifically chosen and trained people, knowing that one of their most responsibilities is supporting free speech and balancing that most difficult event. Every one of those events is critiqued afterward, and it's critiqued again quarterly with all the other incident commanders so that we learn from each of these events. Yes.
 I think the other piece of it that is important is the accountability loop. So we haven't for a long, long time, I've been with IPR just over eight years now, I haven't heard of an actual case of Ketaline that was so documented as this last two months ago or this flashbang grenade that was used by Pioneer Place. So we're doing investigations of those and those were an obvious decision by an incident commander that needs to be reviewed for appropriateness.
 Yeah, that's how we should review after the fact. And I would just say when we spoke with people with the Bureau about kettling, they told us that they did not use that tactic.
 Although the term often is, I mean, the way it was presented to us was to kettle up and spray with a pepper spray or something like that. And we were told, yeah, definitively, we don't do that. That's not trained. We absolutely wouldn't. But again, I was like, well, do you have some SOPs that tell me that or some of that? And that's where some of this info, having more of an info flow, I think would be helpful. Well, I expect we will get some testimony on this. When things happen in parks...
 And as an incident, my rangers are telling their supervisors, their supervisors, and then the bureau director is in contact with me. And if there's a policy question, then I help make that decision. There's a policy question, yes. No, it's a policy as in operations. So I want to make sure that as part of this discussion, we look at the appropriate connection of the mayor and the council in managing operations.
 in some jury situations. I know it might be appealing for some people, for the police commissioner, namely me, to have more sway moment by moment over the operation of the police bureau in a situation like that. But I think in a democracy, we might want to be careful about that, in that that would cut both ways. Some mayor might say, don't arrest those people.
 Maybe I would be more inclined to say that. And some mayor might be more inclined to say, go arrest those people. I don't think you want political officials, mayors included, making moment-to-moment decisions involving who gets arrested. Not necessarily which particular people get arrested, however.
 I do see a role for the commissioner to be involved in, for instance, a decision about this has gone on too long, let's break it up. If it's just a matter of it's gone on too long rather than it's causing problems. Right. I hear you.
 And then the last one, number 12, insuring property is released back. That was one that was a surprise to me on that. How we handle property is very strictly regulated. The state is very clear on the requirements for when you take something from somebody, you give them a property receipt. I think part of it might be based around
 convenience and maybe part of it around changes at the jail on what property they will allow an inmate to take in. So I think maybe stuff that historically had been able to be with somebody who was put into custody now ends up in the property room and it's not convenient in its location.
 So after our meeting earlier in the week and going through this feedback, I'll incorporate that feedback into the revised directive along with some other input that we got and put that back for the work group to take a look at. Okay. Other questions for the chief? Okay.
 Or a work group member or IPR staff. I just wanted to go back to the beginning when we showed the sound trucks. I hear that we've got the better equipment. No, no, we don't. We borrowed. We had one on loan for a period of several weeks, and it was just a night and day difference on the clarity of communication, and it addresses all the things the work group accurately brought up. So you'll either be prioritizing that or using your existing equipment.
 Yeah, now that there is good technology out there to work, that's something we've got to look at. Thank you for the clarification. My question was also have we done the training for the staff who are making the announcements in the proper way to make those announcements? Yes, they have now specific sheets, if you will, a script to follow so that we meet all of the requirements for different dispersals or deployments.
 The movement asks. And have those been discussed with the CRC or other citizens to see if they think that they're clear? I don't know if part of CRC's group, if they had that at the time. I don't think so. That might be something to consider. Thank you. Okay. Good idea. Other questions or suggestions? Yes.
 Thank you all. Thank you. Now, I know we have a number of people signed up to testify, and we're going to hear everybody. We have one logistical bobble here, and that is in about 15 minutes, we're going to need to recess for 15 minutes because Commissioner Novick and I have a conference call that we have to participate in. So we will take the first few folks, and then we'll recess at approximately 20 till, and then come back. So our apologies for that interruption, but stuff happens. So.
 We'll take the first three, please. Okay. First three, please, coming up are Dan Handelman, Regina Hammond, and Joe Walsh.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I was hoping to ask for six minutes. I know you have a time constraint now, but since we attended all these meetings, I'm hoping to ask. Go ahead. Again, we'll take the first three of you, I think, and then we'll probably have to take that break. Thank you very much. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. And, oh, I meant to hand in our testimony. We are extremely concerned that ‑‑
 that after hearing from demonstrators, lawyers, members of the public, and from us about the use of weapons at protests, including batons, pepper spray, horses, and bicycles, the crowd control report does not even mention these items. CRC had promised to at least mention the weapons and other concerns raised during our process section. While many of the recommendations they make are on point and productive, it is the use of violence that most concerns our group, and many people have witnessed or been subjected to that violence over the many years we've been active."
 We'd also hope that tasers would be addressed because they are allowed by the current and proposed revised policies and they should not be. We raised the issue of weapons before the committee as a whole adopted the report. They did not remedy this problem, even though the vote came just days after the PPB deployed flashbang devices at a crowd, later kettling people for arrest.
 Which is not theoretical, it was real. Also, it has come to our attention that when analyzing force data, the Bureau and IPR may be considering all force used at one protest action as one use of force incident, which would be highly misleading. If one person is hit with a baton and another is pepper sprayed in the mouth, and another is hit by a bicycle, these are three distinct uses of force.
 Our purpose in these suggestions is to alleviate a practice which has harmed members of our own group and others in the community. Members of our group have been kettled and pepper sprayed, pushed up against a wall by a police force, hit with police bicycles and suffered and witnessed other abuses at protests. We have no interest in perpetuating police use of violence against unarmed peaceful protesters. We oppose the use of the current array of weapons, but we're not going to advise on ways to harm people. That's not our task as a group promoting police accountability.
 So about specific recommendations, the one about name badges, we asked CRC to recommend that the Bureau and the city work on a state statute requiring all law enforcement to display name tags on their animal garments. It did not make it to the final report, and we understand you finalized your legislative agenda last week, but we hope this can be added to the slate. And we have other ideas, too, which are not related to crowd control. With a recommendation about training,
 People from outside agencies, we hope that it will be mandatory for any officer who comes into the city to do crowd control, to take Portland police training. Otherwise, the response of the crowds will not be consistent and will put the community at risk of harm and both the city and other agencies at risk of legal action.
 About militaristic uniforms and equipment, we support the recommendation to minimize the presence of militaristic uniforms and weapons, but the phrase unless absolutely necessary is too vague and should be better defined. There is such a thing as too much discretion, and I think that phrase exemplifies it.
 On the community relations recommendation, we appreciate the CRC added a sentence that says the PPB should be aware that not all community members and or groups are open to police contact. We noted that there will always be members of the community who do not wish to interact with the police because of their militarism, violence, racially imbalanced enforcement, and other injustices. While there's nothing wrong with recommending more contact, it should not be seen as a means to resolve problems in crowd situations per se.
 Furthermore, we've received and heard of other people receiving unsolicited contact from the Bureau ahead of protest actions, which doesn't feel community-oriented but comes off as kind of an invasive way to collect information on political organizations. Organizers who had the PPB post their Facebook page event were very troubled by that approach, for instance.
 On the permitting process, we agree the permitting process is cumbersome and should be centralized, but we support the organizing of protests without permits, as permits are not always required, and some would argue that they are under due burdens on free speech. We believe strongly the First Amendment event should not have been cleared through the police, so I respectfully disagree with the suggestion to increase the amount of police involvement in that process. They have plenty of say right now.
 One, in process issues, the chief mentioned, and this is the first time that I heard the story about how they came to be hearing the crowd control
 directive in September when CRC has been working on this for two years. So it may just be a case of left hand and right hand not knowing what each other is doing, but Captain Famous, who's the head of professional standards, attends every CRC meeting, and certainly he knew they were reviewing this directive, and I think it was very strange that the Bureau put this out while CRC was still working on their recommendations. I'm glad that the chief is waiting to hear the CRC's recommendations. I hope he listens to the rest of the community today, too, before making any changes to that policy.
 In the section about workgroup activities, the CRC noted that the force complaints are sustained less often than other allegations, but there's no analysis for why that should be so. And I think they're trying not to draw conclusions, but I think when we reviewed the IPR's annual report, we noted there's less than 1 percent of all force allegations have been sustained over the entire course of IPR's existence.
 I also wanted you to know I brought an article that was written by the police chief from Nashville, Tennessee. I don't know if you read about what happened there after the Ferguson grand jury decision, but the chief there let the citizens who were protesting get out on the freeway
 told the people who were upset by it, well, you know, it could be a traffic accident up ahead. You have to wait in traffic from time to time. He gave them a hot chocolate. And then somebody wrote in and complained about this, and he wrote back a very compelling letter, which I'll also enter the record for you. And finally, I want to point out –
 There's always discussion about violence at protests, and most of the time that violence is coming from the police. And nothing to me illustrates that better than the case of the Oakland undercover officers who were banging on windows and dressed in masks, and then they were unmasked by the protesters and drew their guns on them. I hope you all saw that in the media. So bear in mind it's often when you hear about a violent protest, the violence is being perpetrated by the police. Thanks, Dan. One question.
 clarification or question one either i didn't say it very well or people misunderstood me i didn't say kettling was theoretical i know that was done at that one of those thanksgiving week protests my my thought about what was theoretical would be for me to be personally managing the question of when that happens so that's to me seems awkward at best secondly um you talked about the
 the unless absolutely necessary standard, what would you recommend? Again, you know, we said we're not going to try to impose the, you know, we'd rather not see these hard shells and weapons come out at all. Ever? Well, you know, I think that Chief O'Day made the point that he thinks there's some people who get intimidated by it and then they don't.
 do something bad, but there are other people who get intimidated by it and say, I'm never going to a protest ever again. There's military police there with these giant weapons. I don't feel like my kids are safe. I'm not going to come anymore. So you have to understand that the presence of those officers is very, it sends a very bad message. I do understand that. So I think what's the standard for when that gear gets used? I think that's something that the community and the police bureau should talk together about and make it more specific than absolutely necessary because
 What they think is necessary is different from what other people might think is necessary. All right, well, I'm interested in hearing suggestions for what that standard should be because I share the sensitivity that as soon as that gear goes on, it changes the perception of the police, if not the willingness of people to participate in protests. I get that, but there has to be a line at which reasonable people would say, okay, I guess they have to use that gear now.
 I want to hear what people think that line is. This is an attempt at drawing that line. Granted, it involves a lot of judgment in interpretation possibilities and what those words say, but I'm interested in what words you'd like better. And I'm going to take one question and maybe your testimony, and then we have to break. I'm sorry.
 Mayor, I was actually just going to suggest that sometimes you can save a lot of argument interpreting either law or policy by giving some examples. So it may be that you can't do much better in terms of an overall arching statement than absolutely necessary, but if you add a couple of examples, people would be able to be appropriated with help. Yeah. Okay. Good suggestion. Welcome. Yes.
 My name is Regina Hannon, and I'm a member of Portland Cop Watch. And I sat in on the crowd control work group meeting starting in June 2012, and as part of the public provided input.
 When the workgroup report finally came out in September of 2014, I was absolutely dismayed to read there was nothing whatsoever in the report dealing with the weapons. And I want to stress they are weapons and not tools, as is so frequently said.
 that the police use against people exercising their rights of speech and assembly. And to me, that was the whole main crux of the issue of crowd control. I felt that my input was helpful in that I have personally experienced the use of some of these weapons. I have been pushed by a baton.
 I was pushed and intimidated by a very large horse. And some while back, I was cattled and was pushed into a wall with a group of other people, and the police then brought out the pepper spray and indiscriminately sprayed the group. I brought this up many times and was always told, well, they don't do that now, but I guess that happened recently, right?
 So I have also been subjected to conflicting instructions that the officers give to the crowd about where to go and where to move and where to stand. I think that the use of horses in crowd control is unconscionable and inhumane, both for the humans and the horses.
 The horses need to be put out to pasture. And it was very disheartening to recently learn that the police are now resorting to the use of flashbangs in crowd control. And the report also referenced that hard gear, and we've talked about this, some can raise tensions and confrontations.
 And I realized this so much because I happened to be present at Chapman and Lounsdale were supposedly cleared of people from Occupy. And I stood and watched as up the street marched many officers. And they were all arrayed in their hard gear and their weapons. And then following them was the mounted patrol, a number of huge horses.
 And all of this in order to face a group of unarmed folks. Had it not been so outrageously inappropriate, it might have been amusing in that such a display might bring to mind the battles of Hastings and Waterloo.
 And we request, as per our email recently to you and the report we're submitting, that you not sign off on the report without addressing the police use of weapons and the other issues we have identified. Thank you. Thank you very much. Questions? Can I just clarify something? This is the auditor's report. Will we ask to accept it?
 If we're asked to accept it, it isn't that we are necessarily agreeing with it or disagreeing with it. It's just being transmitted. Are you suggesting that we should not even accept it? I am at this point unless some of the issues that we are raising are addressed. And I think the use of weapons, which is not in the report at all, that should be addressed because that's the important aspect of crowd control.
 Thank you. Again, I'm sorry that we have to do this, but I want to recess the council till 4 o'clock. I know, Mr. Walsh, sorry, but we have an appointment here that we can't miss. So we'll be back at 4. Thank you very much. I think we should probably resume as soon as we collect Commissioner Fish, who no doubt got frustrated with us being not back when we said we would be back. So we'll see if we can get him here, get back to work. Commissioner Salsonga? It kind of looks like it.
 Somebody gone to get... Somebody gone to... Hey, Rachel, somebody gone to get Nick? Okay. Rachel did her Sergeant at Arms act. We should have one of those in the... Thank you, Ben. Be here shortly? Okay.
 thank you our apologies again uh commissioner fritz and fish but we are back and we're resuming and mr walsh you are on deck so please come on up do you want to call the next three yes and we'll take joe walsh michelle munt and charles johnson good afternoon good afternoon my name is joe walsh i represent individuals for justice uh we would like to fully support everything that copwatch said
 We would also like to appreciate publicly the questions of Commissioner Fritz. We believe that there should be no police officers at all at a demonstration, none. So we take a very puristic line on this issue. It seems to me that if we started with that concept,
 and then moved and said, well, okay, we have to have security, we have to do this. If we started with the concept that these people are exercising their fundamental right to protest and we should not interfere with it at all, no permits, no nothing. When you start with that concept and then you move into, okay, let's,
 These guys over here are getting a little bit out of hand, so maybe we need some police over there. There's another concept that you should consider, and that's between getting a permit and not getting a permit, there should be something else, okay? In my 40 years, and I think I've said this before, I never ask for a permit. I will protest, and if you don't like it, arrest me.
 That's my attitude. If I do something wrong, arrest me. Or if I choose to get arrested, knowing that if I do something to be the catalyst of that, then arrest me. That's part of the protest. Being a pain in the neck is part of the protest. It's not a parade. So you got that problem. You got to think about that part of it.
 You should never have rifles at a protest. Never. You should never have bicycle cops beating people with their bicycles. Never. You, and you asked for some suggestions, and I'm giving them to you. You should never have military-type weapons, whether it's bombs.
 or it's grenades, or it's tanks, if you do that, you are the catalyst for the violence. I've gone to thousands of protests over the last 40 years. I have never violently attacked a police officer, never, under any circumstances. And sometimes I wanted to, but I didn't.
 Ninety-nine percent of the people that you have up to protest are nonviolent. And you have to believe that, and you have to trust it. You ask us to trust the police. You ask us to trust you. You have to learn to trust us. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Michelle Munn. Hi, Councilor, Mr. Mayor. What I witnessed about these events that you've discussed, Sergeant O'Day especially, is very far from what he's describing. Thank you.
 And just one other thing. You kind of were saying they shouldn't do this or they should wait for that. And thanks, Amanda, for saying they just – when they want to go home, that's when they break up our protests. It's not about what's happening. They just don't want to have a shift change during the middle of it. I think I might have forgot my second thing. But, oh, they use us to train their militarization on. And that's not being said. Okay.
 One example of training besides the protest training on us, practicing their weapons, seeing how it works, letting the corporations make money from selling the weapons and stocking them up everywhere, wherever they hide all their weapons. Besides that, they train people on the spot with no formal training. The Puritan police train people out in the park by injuring my friends and bringing on the young new cadets and showing them how to injure them. And that's what you're not acknowledging. They train to injure between each other outside of the training system.
 It relates with crowd control because they use it again. Making permanent injuries on people's arms, especially hands, stompings, and special moves to injure people forever. Michelle, we have some new guidelines about training. Guidelines won't work. That's enough out of me. I hope you take a look at them. No, the guidelines won't work because the culture. There shouldn't be a dialogue. I'm just saying one-sided thing. They are not...
 honest in any way to tell you what's going on. And it's okay. We're still talking. So let's just keep talking about everything. Ms. Monk, earlier you were going to give us some comments about belongings. Could you tell me your experience? We've been ripped off of our cell phones, computers, many items, anything they want. Jewelry. I've lost lexus in the jail after a protest.
 They steal. They steal. Is that the jail staff? It's a repeated thing amongst numerous of my informants. I go to all the bum feeds, what you could call it, soup line, whatever you want to call it. I hear it every week. That's why I say every day. And I've compared my notes with other people about the hospital injuries, and other people have given me more incidents, and it is every day. Because there's enough hospitals that have injuries by the police every day. I'm kind of counting the jail staff as police sometimes. For the blind?
 For the belongings, is it that they're just... They're ripping us off. They're thieves. There's no record of them or they're too difficult to get back? No, just read the literature. Listen to the radio. Police are thieves. I had a person tell me on the bus one day, a young black man, very capable, he said, he wasn't even joking with me. He said, I want to grow up to be a policeman so that I can steal other people's stuff. That's what he told me. He wasn't even joking. That's what they're training each other to do too. I have more incidents. This isn't even the beginning. Thank you.
 Charles, welcome. Thanks, Charles. For the record, again, my name is Charles Johnson. And it came up earlier about what is the actual procedure that we're dealing here with accepting the report. And I would encourage you to consider not accepting it in order to establish a good baseline for further specificity because it doesn't talk about injuries that people have experienced from bicycles and doesn't address the specificity
 equestrian policing, to which the best solution is simply to disband the equestrian police. It doesn't, I think, give a broad enough look into the fact that individuals suffered from excessive crowd control. There's probably still pending litigation going back then, and I know that policies have been revised
 And rather than detailing, you know, we all know that the city attorney successfully showed the world that it's okay to shove pepper spray, spray pepper spray down the throats of college-age women and found some jurors that would uphold that. So Portland's probably not as great as we think it is. But under the new guidelines, you know, after Thanksgiving with Mike Brown, the failure of the grand jury to return a true bill in Ferguson,
 We've had a flashbang deployed in downtown Portland, and I think that you all are on the ball enough that we're going to try and have higher standards for that so it doesn't happen again unless there's a more eminent threat of danger or something. Senator Ron Wyden left his house in Southeast to go to the Southeast campus of PCC, and protesters following the tradition of Dr. Martin Luther King felt that they needed to be in the street
 and a member of Veterans for Peace and a mom from Salem were targeted by the police. I was in the basement of the jail to greet them when they were released. And just recently, this will connect with the fact that on the 5th or the 6th,
 The district attorney's office or the judge decided, oh, those people in Schmansky, we've been giving them the bureaucratic runaround so long, we can't provide these people with fair trials, never mind the legal shenanigans we've been pulling for three years. So I think that way too much of the city and the county's, the DA's office resources is being wasted because the police are escalating. So I hope that this conversation we had earlier about the mayoral discretion or the police commissioner discretion about getting involved,
 that you will look and say it's not a good use of policemen hours to be arresting people at protests that have not caused injury, period. And also to have some conversations about good use of public resources in cooperation with Mr. Underhill about wasted time at the DA's office, that victims of sex trafficking and victims of violence aren't getting their cases due attention because you're doing these public policy...
 things against people doing constitutional expression. So I hope that your office will look at both not having these arrests and hard-gear staff deployments as much as you've worked on, but also you don't need to send police officers to testify, to prosecute people who were part of traffic control for a civil rights march down 82nd Avenue. And those people do have counsel, but I really think that the best use of public policy
 is to tell the police department that it's not a priority for those people to participate in those prosecutions. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next. Next three are Robert West, Trudy Cooper, and Teresa Rayford. Good afternoon. I think you're first, Mr. West. All right. Well, I wanted to bring up the fact that... Just put your name in the record. Okay, my name is Robert West. Thanks. And I want to bring up, first of all, that...
 I was there when they flash banged. In fact, I was, three of them went off really close to me. And later on I was involved in that kettle where they arrested ten people. I was one, there was two people that were with Film the Police and one other media person that was arrested. And they had us in the East Precinct holding cells for over two hours in which I had to be taken out by ambulance.
 And the hospital said that I was dehydrated. They have water and stuff there that just when you're handcuffed behind your back, you can't drink it. The officers decided that we were such a threat that they couldn't take the handcuffs off of us. How they came up with that, I have no idea. I'm 48 years old, and I got arthritis in my back.
 And for some reason, the police felt unsafe about me being out filming stuff, so they hit me with flashbang grenades. And they felt unsafe about me being in these precincts so they wouldn't take off the handcuffs. And to me, for the chief to come in and say that, you know, what he said, we're still missing a film the police riot shield.
 that we know the police recovered. There was people that said the police recovered it. But the property room doesn't have it. Central Precinct doesn't have it. East Precinct doesn't have it. And officers that I know that was there, that I talked to, said they would try to find it, and they can't find it. And the right shit only stands from the floor about this tall and about that wide. So it's not something they...
 You just put in a corner. And like I said, I was injured when they took me over to East Precinct. You know, they made sure that when I sat there and said that I want to take my Fifth Amendment rights and not say anything, they made sure that I wasn't going to be.
 They dealt nicely. In fact, when I first sat there and said, I need medical assistance, they sat there and said, I took my Fifth Amendment rights. They can't talk to me. And then about five minutes later, I go, hey, I need medical attention. And finally an officer came up and goes, what's wrong? And when they took my blood pressure, it was, what was that, 150 over 120 blood.
 and the fire medic or fire paramedic or EMT or whatever that took the blood pressure said he needs to go to the hospital now. And the officer tried to argue saying, well, we're releasing him right now. We can walk him right out the lobby and they can take him from the lobby. And I said, no, I want to be taken from right here. You know, I was feeling dizzy and, you know,
 I wanted to make sure there was reports done. I'm sure that wasn't reported to you guys. I'm sure there was no injury reports put down on that. And I've asked the police department for copies of the police report, and they're dragging their feet. Well, thanks for coming today. I appreciate you being here. Thank you. Do you have the records from the hospital from when you were seen? Were you taken to the emergency room? Yes, I was. And do you have those records by any chance? Yes, they're at the house.
 I'd be, if you'd be willing to, I'm trying to think of how I can get them so that they're still confidential. Let me think about that because, Mayor, I'd like to, I would be very interested to know if there was documentation at the police. You know, what, if this, thank goodness you are fine and that you're here to talk to us. If there had been an incident, well, how would we have looked at that? So thank you for coming to talk to us. All right. Thank you. Ms. Cooper, I think you're next. Okay.
 Hi, I'm Trudy. Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm from the Elliott neighborhood in Northeast, and I feel very supportive of the report and the work group as far as it goes. I'd like to talk a little bit about how, you know, basically I agree with the people who have said that if you don't approve it today because it needs more refinement, that's what I would like to support. But there's two things in particular that,
 that I wanted to focus on and the assumptions behind them. And that's the issue, the recommendation of the hard gear and the recommendation about publicizing more about approach and, in particular, constitutional rights. And I'd like to talk about the assumptions behind that and the relation between the two. Thank you.
 First, I've been a protester for a very long time. I've been attending protests, if not organizing them. And it wasn't until 2011 that I saw the kinds of things that we're talking about today with the hard gear, with rifles being visible, with the kind of response. And, you know, for example, I went to almost every Jobs with Justice rally in March that
 existed and at that time Rosie Sizer was on horseback and she knew all of us by name or many of us by name. It was a whole different feeling. And I don't know if all of that stuff was there at that time and I just didn't know it or if it was in the background out of sight, like the work group has said, which would be good. Maybe it was there the whole time. But what I really wonder is when did that happen and what are the assumptions behind it? Because
 As much as I support the issue of keeping it out of sight, definitely keep it out of sight, because it bothers protesters, as they said in the analysis. But what bothers me most is the assumptions about having it in the first place, because it seems that in a democracy there can be no higher value than protecting the citizens' right to protest, to get redress of grievances, to assembly, to freedom of speech, as many have said before.
 other than life and limb, that's the main thing that they should be protecting. I think a very different message is sent with just even having that gear, whether it's out of sight or not, and the standard that you mentioned, Mayor Hales, of when is it necessary. And I think that we really need to look at that. When I think it's necessary is...
 that the standard should not be related, as it seems to be, to is there a threat of somebody throwing something through a window
 It should be the standard of when it's necessary. It should be, is there any life and limb kind of danger involved here with protesters or anybody else? It should be people-oriented, not property-oriented, and not just control-oriented. And maybe they're making all the changes in that direction that we need to go in. But just in case they aren't, I think, you know, the assumptions behind it are—
 very much sends a message that we don't have the right to be there. I mean, when you see that, when you see that response, whether they've got the gear on or not, it very much sends the message you don't have your constitutional rights, protesting is criminalized, we're expecting a riot.
 And that's not, I think, the message that the city of Portland wants to send. If that's the police bureau culture, which we've talked about a lot, changing police bureau culture, I think that is something to look at. I'd like to see that reflected in the report. I would hope that they would bring up more of those kinds of cultural issues. Thank you. Thank you.
 Ms. Rayford, welcome. Thank you. My name is Teresa Rayford, for the record, and just wanted to say hello again this afternoon to the commissioners and to the mayor. And I wanted to make a statement also just to say ditto everything that Dan said. I trust him impeccably, his research and his advocacy. And I also wanted to say that I'm very disappointed that Chief O'Day has left this conversation considering he had an earlier appointment today.
 with the people from Copwatch that really do keep us on the streets informed of what's happening here. At least if he missed that appointment to come here, I would think that he would want to stay here to listen to the voices of the people. And I'm not saying that he won't watch the stream or this video later, but I think that it would have shown considerable leadership on his end as our new chief.
 And in regards to two more statements I wanted to make, and one was in regards to the provision. Amanda and I had spoke to her about it before you guys came back in. But in consideration to the time when the police or anyone in a commanding position decides or deems that it is necessary for a protest to end,
 or protest this freedom of assembly by the people who have a constitutional right to do so. So I don't think that it's at any point an obligation for a police force to end that opportunity for those people to freely assemble. And so to be directed into a kettle because there's a shift change or for any other reason that they deem that our time should be up is a very unconstitutional violation of our civil liberties.
 also when we're dealing with protesters there's a difference between protesters and rioters freedom of speech, freedom to assemble, freedom to take and occupy the streets because you're impassioned about something that is a world event and which we know now is a global event and
 That is our freedom also that a lot of people have fought for and that we've all worked to protect our parents before us and even our children after us. We would hope we'd have that type of integrity to protect that. We have to think a protest of people moving about because they're feeling a certain way is different than a riot. We had a riot the other night after the Ducks game. People were burning couches. We didn't burn couches.
 You know, you had a riot during Halloween out on the East Coast because of a pumpkin patch thing. That was a riot. That wasn't a protest. And so I think that when you talk about deadly force or some type of riot, urine, things of that sort, you have to look at exactly what's happening. Is it a riot or is it a protest? Is it a deadly assembly? Is it going to injure people and not property? And then you make your assumptions based on that.
 In specifics to this issue that we're dealing with, one of the things that we've been dealing with since August when we had our first protest,
 People from the black community and communities of color were so scared to take to the streets that they didn't. They did one time, and then after that, they wouldn't anymore. We had problems internally with our white allies and our black community members fearing for their safety for being in the streets, fearing for their safety for being in front of cops.
 That is a continuous fear. If you haven't, check out the movie Selma. Research the stuff that's not on the Hollywood version that happened to Dr. King and other people like Medgar Evers and people before us that fought for our rights. Look at how they were treated and think about what we're seeing when we are freely assembling and why we don't come together to use our voices. And then think about the outcomes that happen within our city and our nation when we don't speak out and speak.
 Give yourself the opportunity to change that culture because you are in power. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Okay. Next three are Laura Vanderlin, Loretta Austin, and Laquita Lanford. Anyone else after that? It looks like someone's not still here. We can go with King Bishop Stiles. Come on up. Welcome. Glad you're here. Oh, she's here. Sorry. Can you hold on? Sorry. Hang on, King.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Welcome, Mayor. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Laquita Lanford, and I'm really thankful to, like, be able to sit before you. I've never been able to.
 opportunity to do this. I've always, you know, sat in the background and paid attention to what was going on, but what has really got me coming to visit with you guys, and I've met you several times, Mayor, over the last month and a half, and I feel like I'm comfortable enough to speak to you about some of the things that I've been experiencing. One, moving back to Portland last year, 2014, and I'm not going to go into too much
 I'm not a native of Portland, but I had lived here for 10 years. And so, like, I really believe that this city is like my city because it taught me a lot of good values when I was about 19 to 28 years old is when I left. And one of the things in that first segment of my life was about, you know, the culture and these words of diversity and these different things. And so I left to expand on diversity.
 just to grow as a woman, to grow as a person, and have all these different experiences in life. And so after going through all of that, I had been thinking about moving back to Portland. I have family that had later on moved here when I was here, or my mom is here now. And so those were things that I think I really needed to do. So I made that decision. I think within the first week that I was here, I felt like I was in another world. I felt like
 Being coming from, I had moved from Houston, Texas. I was in California prior to that, and I had spent six months in Central America and believes my family's from Central America. But...
 I just felt like the culture had really changed for people. You know, like no one's speaking to anyone. You know, everyone is like going to work and no one's paying attention. And I'm like, where are, like the city has grown. It's a beautiful city to live in. But I just felt culturally we have like, we've been separated again as people. And so...
 As things develop, I mean, I kept asking questions, and I want to say that I did come down as a concern and speak to the police chief after something. I don't know. He's not the chief, and I don't have his card. I have a couple other people's information that I gathered. But I was concerned because I live in a downtown Portland area, and there are a lot of homeless people that live in that area that I live in, and I think I proposed to you to really come out there on the streets and hang out with me for a day or two. And it's just really rough. Yeah.
 And so what I had been seeing in Portland, which is public information, is Portland mugshots, and I just started to see a pattern of people because at one time I had worked for Central City Concern. And some of those people that were not getting assistance, they're still living on the street, and I've been gone for 10 years. And I'm like, well, what's going on around here? Now, I utilize services from downtown.
 transitional project as well. I've never been in jail. I haven't been on drugs or anything like that, but I'm a community minded person and I'm an advocacy for the things of human rights. And when it affect me, I put myself in that arena to have an understanding about what's going on. And that's what had led me to this conversation, you know, um,
 Really thankful for Teresa Rayfield and all of the other members that have came as members of Don't Shoot Portland. And I stand really strong with that mission that we say is a community action plan because that's what we're doing. We're taking action in the community that we live in and want it to be better. It's not always about protesting. The night that the first time that I actually had, I really didn't protest. I just kind of showed up afterwards by the Justice Center, and I was standing on the block in Portland.
 I saw the protest was coming from around the backside, so I walked over. And I wasn't in no means where I was there for supportive reasons, but I was just, like, standing around just everybody else. And after 20, like, maybe 15 minutes of that, I started to see the riot police, you know, box us in and taking off the bridge and, you know, you're not thinking about it when it's happening. You're like, okay, well, maybe this does happen. I don't know. And I started to look at it and, like...
 15 minutes after that, it was the announcement of everyone in the street is arrested. Everyone that's in the street is arrested, like several times. And the riot police or the police officers start to push us in. Everyone that's in the street. So I was standing next to a car and I got on the sidewalk because I wasn't really like, you know,
 there were kids there, there were older people there, like the news folks were there. I was terrified. Like, I really thought that I was going to go to jail that night. I'm like, I just got a new job. You know, I don't want to, like, be, you know, not a part of that because I am here. And there was some information that came about, and I'm speaking a little bit to them, I'm just trying to get it off my chest, that, yeah,
 I came down that Monday morning after we'd been arrested and everything. They did allow us to leave. I was just – I was – I was –
 I was scared, but then I was also empowered by the younger people that I saw, the young black women and men that were there, that we were all there for a reason, in solidarity with Ferguson, as that indictment that happened. And it was just so fresh to us. That's what everything that was going on. And Loretta, she was there. And I didn't know this young lady from, like, anything. I'd never seen her before. But I was so inspired by her message there.
 and inspired by what it was that she was doing for young black people of color and for myself that didn't get that opportunity when I was 20 years old like her.
 And I got, you know, we got let go or whatnot, and I had to use the restroom. I was so nervous, and I went to Pioneer Square, and when I was coming out of the door, she was, like, just kneeling down like she was frantic herself with the bullhorn in her hand, and I just comfort her, and we just talk, and it's...
 I think everything happened for a reason in this life. If I had not been there for her and her being there for me, I wouldn't still be here because she was the person that encouraged me to continue to keep going with this movement.
 And as I've been a part of it, it's just been so many touching factors to what's going on with our population of people of homelessness, of mental illness, and all of these different things in Portland. And it's just so hurtful that I'm collecting data. I'm advocating for homeless people at this point. And I'm setting up a space for them to come because they're not going to come down here with all their luggage and everything that they have, you know, to talk to someone that they don't know that really haven't done nothing for them.
 So on my way here this morning, Leah, and she gave me her citation. This lady sleeps outside. She used to work for Monona County. She's 40 years old, and there were some things, some traumatizing things that happened in her life, and now she's on the street. She wasn't an addict when she got on the street, but she's had to have, like, been in positions to put herself, to make herself comfortable. And the police officer this morning gave her,
 a citation for her sleeping outside underneath the bridge, a woman that's 120 pounds, that's a white female, and that has already served the state of Portland many, many years. And she put in a lot of time and efforts and her energy, and she's willing to talk to anyone. And so she gave me the card.
 And I brought that in. It's just like as it happened, I've also been in connection with Sisters of the Rose to get that safe space with them. Also talking to Eric Berry, who works down
 independent police review from that first initial conversation that I had to have had with them to make a statement myself, because like I said, I had never been in the process. But thankfully for Teresa and that follow-up, I was able to get that done and get that on a record, and so now I know what to do. And there's several pictures. I'm compiling a documentary about the homeless people,
 you know the hiddenness behind homelessness and it's not always about a person being an addict you know people want help in this city but if they're having to be out on the street and women have to get with the man that they don't know just to have a pallet to lay down and i could get to go to a warm bed every night mayor that's not right for me thank you so much for being here and for coming forward and being an advocate thank you
 My name is Laura Vanderlin, and I just want to thank you for letting us come here and speak. Thank you, Commissioners and Mr. Mayor. I have been an activist for a while. I have been streaming live and following Don't Shoot Portland. And I'm –
 I'm disturbed by the disparity that I see every day between black people and, you know, in the black community. I've witnessed the police here in Portland treat people.
 I'll give you an example. We were out one night and there was an incident where a young woman took out a knife and she threatened us with a knife. We were walking. It was a small group of us. We weren't protesting. We were just walking from one place to another. We were going to go eat. And a young woman took a knife out and threatened us with it. And then she...
 She was the one that initiated the call to the police. The police showed up, and they don't seem to – they just seem to be very – I'm sorry. I'm just at a loss of words. Describe to us what happened. Just keep telling us what happened. Yeah, well, what happened was this young woman –
 She was just wanting to, I'm not really sure what her agenda was, but she ended up calling the police, and it was really not a big deal. However, when the police got there, the police treated us with such hostility that it just kind of shocked me a little bit.
 When the police officer, and I have it on a stream, when the police officer spoke to me, he called me ma'am. When he spoke to Ms. Rayford, and he seemed to know her by name, he didn't call her Ms. Rayford, he called her Teresa. And he rolled his eyes, and he just wouldn't let her finish an entire sentence, and seemed just completely agitated when he hadn't even spoken to her. He was already agitated by the time he came up to speak to her.
 and they were under the assumption that we were protesting, and I don't know why they were under that assumption because none of the officers really spoke to any of us. They only spoke to the young woman, and then they took all of her information, and I was just a little shocked because my skin color, I've never had that type of experience before.
 You know, most of the time when a police officer approaches me, it's with some sort of respect. But to see how police officers approach my black sisters, it disturbs me as my children are black.
 And it disturbs me because I know my daughter, I have two daughters that are black, and I know that they have gone through a lot with police officers. I have one in particular who I remember, this is in San Diego, this is not here in Portland, but it's not that different. And what is happening here with the police department in Portland is parallel to what's happening in our nation. It's parallel. And I think...
 If you really consider what is happening and really have consideration for your citizens, you have the power to make the change along with us. And that's all that I have to say. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you.
 good afternoon welcome hi good afternoon um commissioners and mayor hayes um i would like to just put my name on record my name is loretta austin a l-a-u-r-e-t-t-a-a-u-s-t-i-n um i also would like to put on record that i deserve more than three minutes because um
 Personally, I am targeted by the color of my skin. So I'm not going to be running on any time frame or anything. I'm going to say what I have to say. And hopefully you guys will listen with an open heart and an open ear. I would first like to say that it's not the fact that black people are compliant and unbothered.
 It's the fact that they are fearful to come out and protest. Fearful of violent arrests and unnecessary brutal behavior. We know this because there is a history of oppression when it comes to the African American people. Also, I would like to specifically talk about the Kettling Inn incident that happened whenever, I can't remember. We've had a lot of protests happen, but it did happen. Specifically speaking, the night of the Kettle Inn and the mass arrests.
 police commanded people to get on the side of this, or get into the street, and that we were all under arrest. Without rights being read or a reason why we were all arrested, we were all massly detained and illegally arrested. As I encouraged people to get on the sidewalk, police officers arrested only people that were in the street. So whoever gave them the command that we were all arrested, and to get onto the street, it was very...
 it was i don't know what the word would be but specifically when we got on the on the sidewalk we were not arrested or um were not thought to to be touched or to be put in the back of the truck and um and taken away but they only arrested the people that were arrested were the people that were in the streets so um definitely that and also um
 Also, I would like to speak on the flash bombs and basically Portland protests in comparison to the Fergan protests have a reputation of nonviolent and peaceful marches and protesting. However, the practices of the Portland Police Bureau are very much hostile and brutal.
 In no circumstances should police officers reflect a militaristic appearance and approach to peaceful protests. When I say that, we just led a protest on 82nd and Southeast Portland. And as the protest and the march started, we started off with one or two.
 one police car on duty or are following us down the street and literally two minutes after we had 10 12 police and it got hostile very quickly However, nobody was throwing anything nobody You know, it was a peaceful March and it should have never gotten that hostile never should have got that hostile also
 They were grabbing people. And definitely, I just, it kind of just blows me how hostile these police officers can get, especially because we are practicing our rights, you know. We're not doing anything wrong. We're just, we're practicing our rights. So definitely, I don't know. I just feel as though with the absence of the chief of commissioner,
 I'm okay I thought so what is the purpose of us coming together and arm and putting our our concerns on on file if he's not here listening to these concerns here okay well I just want to make that on make that known that that he should probably be here next time that we do this on just because.
 They do have a direct... And also he said in his recent, he got sworn in last week and he also said that he's here to make a change, make a difference, and we all got to do that together. And you're asking for community involvement where the people of the community sit here because we're not like
 all have been a part of protesting for many years. I'm only 38 years old, so, like, this is, I mean, I've had a lot of issues going on in my life, but this is the first time that I'm exercising and having an understanding of what it is that's going on. And so, like, that type of, hopefully, energy, we can get him to participate in our community as he said he would. He will. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Thank you. I'm very proud of the women in our community. Thank you for doing this. Thank you.
 The last two who signed up are King Bishop Stiles and Michelle Arata. Please come on up. Thanks for waiting. Go ahead, Mr. Stiles. Put your name in the record again. So I'm King Bishop Stiles. I represent the Three Kings of Portland Association.
 Happy to be in front of you guys again. Thank you very much for your time. Forgive my ignorance, but I just need to ask a question. As far as this report is concerned, so your acceptance of it is basically not an acknowledgement of communication. If...
 It's the work group, the independent work group from the auditor's office and citizens put this report together. When we accept a report like this, it says we have heard you. It doesn't necessarily say we endorse every last piece of what you've provided. And, in fact, in this case, in my opinion, and we'll talk more about this later, but
 There are things that we need to talk about beyond this report. Right. So this is a communication. Maybe I'm restating what your point was, but this is a communication from this citizen work group to us. Right. And we're taking it in with your comments. Great. Yeah, I just wanted to make sure that I was completely clear about that. It seemed like there was...
 not a complete understanding as far as This is kind of an unusual situation, so reasonable question. We don't do this that often. Thank you. So another question that I have is that in the acceptance of this report, will you ask for more specificity within the report? Yes, we have the opportunity to do that, and I think you'll hear several of us do just that. Okay, great.
 So moving forward, I just really appreciate your questioning, Mr.
 commissioner fritz uh awesome i think that it's very important for us to know exactly where we stand um and what we will and won't accept uh especially in this sensitive area of law enforcement and exercising rights um i would like to comment on the fact of a little something that chief o'day was speaking about i was at
 The protest where the flashbang happened, um,
 And there were three people that were agitators of that flashbang happening. I was pretty much like right there on the front line. And myself and the two other kings were actually working throughout the protest to make sure that those people were known and that they were dispersed of without getting into any kind of physical confrontation. But.
 But it seemed that the police officers that we connected with didn't necessarily have an interest in making sure that they left.
 One of the things that spurred that flashbang on was an individual who I caught on camera dancing on top of a police cruiser. And the Kings, the other Kings and I actually had a discussion with this gentleman about, you know, how we were to proceed within the protest in that way.
 exactly what he was doing wasn't appropriate for exactly why we all gathered. So I think that that's important information for you guys to know on top of
 that with a lot of bad information that you guys have coming to you, just to give you some good information into the fact that that night when the flashbangs went off, I located myself in a position where I could be seen and perceived as non-threatening and
 contacted officers that assisted two separate people in being able to retrieve their cell phones that were in a space that the officers cordoned off. So it should be known that there are those officers that are there that are respectful, and they are there, and they are serving and protecting. With that said, in the vein of kind of this culture issue,
 topic that's come up, it's something that we really get to look deep into. There's a statement that comes across that, you know, no matter where we come from, but especially in the issue of dealing with law enforcement, that there shouldn't be blanket statements put across as all officers being bad officers. But I think that it is imperative that we take a look at the fact that
 While there may be quote-unquote good officers, if there aren't procedures and definitive actions to be taken, put in place that we all on both sides can hold each other accountable and see things as being transparent, if we don't have those things in place, no one is going to be able to see –
 The good that's coming out of the policing that's that's happening and that we're wanting to have. So that's all. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi, my name is Michelle Arata. I thank you guys for being here to listen to us.
 I am actually here to read a testimony from a community member who is not here. But first, I'd like to speak on my own experience. I have a 14-year-old daughter. She's a freshman at Lincoln High School. And her and her friends...
 have, we've been to many protests together and they want to participate. They are vibrant. They want to see how the judicials, to use their rights to free speech. And I have to call mothers and I have to call fathers and I have to beg and I have to explain. They're not afraid of the protesters. They are afraid of the police. They're afraid of us getting arrested. They're afraid of how it might ruin their child's future.
 When I tell my parents I go to a protest, my parents are not afraid of the people I'm protesting with. My parents are afraid of what the police are going to do. And we've created this climate that protesters are evil, and they are not. Any violence I've ever seen has never come from my comrades, from my people that are sticking up for people who are oppressed, who don't have a voice, who have been marginalized, where social injustice has occurred. Right.
 What we are there to do is to bring about knowledge and awareness. And we have been labeled as something to be feared, when in reality, the only fear I've ever seen is the actions of the police. And every time, if I'm not able to go to a protest and my 14-year-old goes, I'm still afraid for her, for her safety, not because of my friends standing together, but because of how the police treat us.
 um that being said i'd also like to read this testimony from a community member
 I was at the Saturday demonstration where there's a confrontation with the police. I positioned myself between two planners while I watched so I could have a safe vantage point to watch the police from. From my spot, I saw a gap between the police and the crowd as they withdrew. One member of our community was encouraging people to maintain the police line as they moved back. A small fringe group on the left-hand side of the crowd began to advance. Within moments, the police threw concussion grenades at the crowd.
 Two clearly targeting the leader attempting to get the crowd to follow police instruction. And one or two which were thrown at
 at provoking the group i continued to watch the police as the crowd went into panic and i was knocked off my feet by two panicking civilians i stood back up to look back at the police to make sure no one was injured or in need of help i watched as the police waited for the crowd to settle before charging the trampled and confused crowd as i stood on the sidewalk being mindful of the policies requested vacate the street keeping my arms non-threatening placed at my sides i watched on a group of police throw two members of the protest
 who are also standing on the sidewalk would not been provoking anyone get down into the wall and two of them are forcibly restrained against the wall by group
 of about five officers as i continued to stand and observe the situation i was approached by six officers in formation when they reached me mind you standing on the sidewalk with my hands exposed i was immediately struck with a baton the second time i was struck i began to turn around when i had rotated almost all the way around one officer discharged pepper spray into my face i was continuously struck in the back as i walked away from the police
 made my way away from the police and then handled the pepper spray situation. Additional comments here. In all this experience, there's very little logic. The police did not effectively disperse the crowd. The use of force was unwarranted, and the application of crowd control weapons was ineffective and seemingly misplaced. The police in this unjustified application of force caused more injury than the protest had created. One person, as a result of being trampled, had their shoulder dislocated.
 Many others were injured and many more were placed in danger. The police in this instance represented the only danger to civilians downtown that night. The police on that day were responsible for virtually all injury that night. To call any methods they used forms of crowd control is laughable. Crowd control exists to prevent disorder and rioting, and in this instance, we're nothing but provocateurs. I agree with that statement, and I was like my child's.
 opportunity to protest, to be protected and not a fear. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else? Well, thank you all. I think it's in order that we take a motion. So if there's a motion to accept the report. Is there a second? Second. Okay. Further discussion on that? Then roll call and we can make a statement as we do.
 Fritz? Thank you, everyone, for testifying for the amount of time that you've put into clearly documenting your concerns. Thank you especially to the Citizens Review Committee who put in hours and hours of oversight and good work. And so I appreciate that good work in accepting this report. I think I have learned a lot this afternoon, and I've learned that it certainly doesn't go far enough.
 I want to start out by stating very clearly that the Community Oversight Advisory Board, the application deadline has been extended until Friday. And we're particularly looking for people of color and young people to come and participate
 apply for that position. We've gotten over 80 applications so far, and we are still very much encouraging more. So if you or somebody that you know is willing to put in your application, the choices are made by a citizen selection committee. They are not made by the City Council except for one each. So there is that opportunity to participate very actively and intensively. It takes about possibly 10 hours a month, so it's a lot of work.
 And yet this is the most important thing that we're doing right now.
 And I appreciate all of the testimony. I am looking forward to getting the report from Mayor Hales about the policies that we discussed. The use of the concussion grenades, whatever else they're called, is new information to me. I was not aware that that's becoming a standard practice. And I'd like to get a briefing on what the policy is, why we do that, and –
 We need to be clear that people do get to express themselves. They do get to assemble. We get to assemble. I have been to many protests in my life
 And I want to be able to continue to do that. I want everybody to do that because it's part of who we are as Portlanders. It's part of who we are as a nation. And we need to recognize that we are doing some things right here. Or at least we're not as awful as some of the other things that we've been reading about in the news. So there's that.
 We have recognized that we have problems and we have committed to addressing them. And we're having this extended conversation. I appreciate you being here at the Mirror, allowing people to have their say. And the involvement of the Independent Police Review in the independently of...
 elected auditor's office is crucial. And we need to make sure that there's the appropriate checks and balances between the now independently hired compliance officer and the community oversight board, IPR, CRC, and citizens at large to figure out what the questions are, figure out what the answers are, and make sure that we get it right. This report is part of that, and I'm appreciative of all the good work. I. Fish? Yes.
 Well, I want to thank everybody for spending the afternoon with us. Our day started at around 9 o'clock, and Council started at 9.30, so we're approaching about eight hours, but we're paid to do this. Each of you has taken time out of your schedule, your life, to be with us, so thank you. And I share what Commissioner Fritz said about powerful testimonials and the information you've shared with us, and I thank you for that. Thank you.
 A couple times the question has come up about what is our role in accepting this report. And I want to offer a qualification. There are some reports that we commission as a council. And if we don't think the report addresses the question that we've presented, then we have the authority to reject the report. And that's really telling our team to go back and do it differently. When it's a report from an independent body that is giving us advice,
 I think it's better form to accept the report, which is a ministerial act. It essentially means we're taking it and putting it in the record. But I'm not satisfied with this report. The mayor is the police commissioner, and I'm looking forward to his comments about the areas where he'd like to see further work. But I think the record is pretty clear about the areas that need additional attention. And so this report, to me, is just a beginning. It is not the end, and I think it's incomplete. Thank you.
 but i think it would be bad form to reject the report i think the the more respectful thing to do is to accept the report and to state our reservations and make it clear that that this is a ministerial act commissioner fritz mentioned the coab and i my head is spinning these days with acronyms but the community oversight advisory board this is a big deal this this is a big deal and we spent a lot of time
 and we've had a lot of hearings over the DOJ settlement, what we're trying to accomplish. And so it's very important we get people who are deeply committed to this reform work. And it was my honor about 10 days ago to announce that former Senator Abell Gordley had agreed to be my appointee, and she brings a lifetime of work around civil rights and justice and mental health issues. And I think she'll be a superb participant in that process, and I hope that
 I hope we get additional nominations and suggestions of people that are willing to make the deep commitment to that work. It's been quite an extraordinary hearing, and I appreciate, again, everyone's time and commitment. Aye. Novick?
 I appreciate everybody's testimony. I appreciate the report. I think that although there could be more detail in the items of the report, I think it raises a number of interesting issues. I just want to touch on a couple of them. One, referring back to the previous conversation, I think between Mr. Handelman and the mayor, I think the mayor has actually made it very publicly clear that he's concerned about using hard gear and military-style clothing and equipment.
 unless it is absolutely necessary. And I realize that the phrase absolutely necessary might seem vague to some people, but I think that to lay out some specific types of instances and say here's where it might be necessary would be a useful clarification.
 One recommendation I thought was interesting was number eight, publicize crowd expectations. BBB should publicize information about how it responds to crowds' conduct by utilizing social media, Internet sites, and other outlets to reach the community. The worker believes this information might help avoid possible future conflicts if it's clear and available ahead of time. That strikes me as a very reasonable recommendation.
 proposal and I would imagine it might be, I mean if they haven't already done this, but even if they have it might be useful to revisit it. It might be a good exercise for the police bureau to go through saying what do we want to tell people about what we do in terms of managing crowds. And I don't know whether anybody who might wind up being part of a crowd would read the information distributed. It would be very nice to know that it's there.
 So, again, I do think that these are high-level recommendations, but I really appreciate the work that went into them. Hi. Hales. Well, I appreciate folks' testimony very much. I've now been commissioner in charge of the Police Bureau for a little more than two years. During that time, I've seen some wonderful things that I go out of my way to praise officers who've
 Talked somebody in off a ledge or pulled them off a bridge when they were suicidal or officers that bought somebody groceries after they were arrested for $6.66 worth of shoplifting by a security guard in a grocery store. And I've seen some great work by Portland police officers, and I go out of my way to praise that. I've seen some things that I have questions about, and I've seen things that I know I should change.
 And that list, what's on each of those lists changes over time because things happen. People do great work. Things don't go well. People make mistakes or violate policy. So I'm learning as I go along. Part of how I learn as I go along is I listen to the community. And I just want to thank you all for being here. I also want to thank you, Ms. Rayford, for organizing a really good forum on Saturday where, again, I got a chance to learn a few things.
 So, I want you to know that you're being heard. I hope you feel that and know that, that the Council is hearing you and that the Police Bureau is hearing you because I'm the Commissioner in charge and I'll make sure of that. Secondly, there are some of my values that, as Mr. Novick just mentioned, that are already pretty clear. I share some of the concerns that have been raised here. There are some of the things in this report that I think we all say, yes, we should do that.
 exactly how we do it. What is absolutely necessary? I will try, and I like your suggestion about situations. Here's a situation where it appears to me that using hard gear would be absolutely necessary. So we'll try to clarify that because I do believe that reasonable people would agree that there are moments when police officers need to protect themselves and there are moments when
 by wearing that gear they would intimidate people from exercising their first amendment rights and that there's a line between those two somewhere and we should try to find that line. So this report doesn't go far enough but I appreciate the good work. There are other areas where we need to do more and I've written down notes about a number of topics here including the weapons issue and exactly what basis there is for ending a protest or is there one.
 So you've made some excellent points both in the formal presentations and in the individual testimony. You've got my commitment to keep following up on these issues and also to get back to the members of the Council to raise questions about things that need to be followed up on here. One thing that you will see from me and from Chief O'Day is that we'll keep trying to develop good public policy in the light of day out in public and that's why you're going to see policy proposals
 up on the website and out for people to debate and, again, to give me as the commissioner in charge and us as the council that makes the rules good guidance about how we do this. So I think this is very helpful. I want to thank IPR and the volunteers that worked on this. More to come. And I look forward to hearing more from all of you as well. Thank you very much. Aye. And we are adjourned.