All right, good morning, everybody. Is the sound working? I think so, yes. Can you unmute yourself? Test, test. Good morning, everybody. This is the January 10th, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Here. Wheeler? Here. Here.
 Colleagues, just to let you know, as you're looking at the video feed, you may notice it is not its usual crisp, defined video feed. The entire city hall is experiencing some cable issues, and we are working on that with the utilities. To my understanding, the closed captioning does work and will continue to work, but you're not going to see the same kind of video quality that we've seen
 previously and we're working on that and we'll get back to where we are as soon as we have that sorted out with the utilities.
 The purpose of the council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve order and decorum at these meetings. To make sure the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will make everybody feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and to also ensure that decorum is maintained for everyone.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subjects that they wish to address.
 These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of resolutions and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. And if you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization.
 Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up, and when your time is done, the red light will come on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or interrupting during council deliberations, is not allowed. All right.
 people who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. If you'd like to show support, please give a thumbs up. If you don't like something, you can do a thumbs down. Thanks. Let's get started with council communications.
 Carla, it's my understanding that all five communications today are from the same group, and so we'll call them all up together if that's okay. Okay. Okay.
 First one's item 28, request of Maria Barahona to address council regarding the boycott, divestment, and sanctions movement. 29, request of Carol Lansman to address council regarding city divestment from businesses that don't meet standards for social responsibility. 30, request of Olivia Catby-Smith to address council regarding city divestment from corporate securities.
 31, request of Rod Such to address council regarding occupation-free Portland. And 32, request of David Newman to address council regarding occupation-free Portland. Come on up. And it's my understanding that you'd like to present in a different order than you have signed up, and that's fine. So however you want to orchestrate it, you have three minutes each. Please just state your name for the record. And maybe we can pull two more chairs up if you just want to grab some chairs on the side. Thank you.
 Thank you. They're on the way. David, I think you were going to start then. Great. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak to you. My name is David. I'm sorry. That mic's off. If you turn all those mics on on the gray button, yeah, they should light green. Am I live? Yes. There you go. Good morning. Thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak to you. Thank you.
 My name is David Newman. I'm here to ask your help in keeping me from going to prison for exercising my constitutional right to free speech. I'm a Portland resident, a nurse practitioner, small business owner, and a member of Havarash Shalom, a Jewish Reconstructionist congregation. I am speaking to you today as a private citizen. I'm also a member of Jewish Voice for Peace and a supporter of the nonviolent boycott, divestment, and sanction movement.
 However, I am not here today to try to persuade you of the merits of BDS or to talk to you about the Israeli oppression of the Palestinians. We can leave those discussions for another day. What I am here to speak to you about is my constitutional right to participate in a boycott of Israel if I choose to do so. Boycotts are a form of collective action that allows ordinary people to make their voices heard. In this country, we have a long tradition of boycotts being used to affect progressive change.
 In the 1960s, they were used successfully in the Civil Rights Movement to overturn Jim Crow laws and by the United Farm Workers to win concessions from growers. More recently, boycotts have been used to protest the states of Arizona and North Carolina when they passed laws targeting immigrants and transgender people. The right to boycott is a form of free speech protected by both the United States and the Oregon Constitutions.
 The United States Supreme Court, in the landmark 1982 case, NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware, affirmed that boycotts are a protected form of free speech. If the Israeli anti-boycott law becomes the law of the land, my right to participate in a boycott of Israel and my right to encourage others to participate in such a boycott will become illegal. Violators could face up to 20 years in prison.
 This is not just my opinion, it's the opinion of the ACLU and other civil rights experts who have carefully looked at the proposed legislation.
 If the Israel anti-boycott law becomes law, I and many other Portlanders could be arrested and prosecuted for merely exercising our right to free speech. This proposed law is meant to intimidate those who seek to pressure Israel into doing the right thing. That is its sole purpose, intimidation. It would have a chilling effect on nonviolent forms of direct action.
 Many Portlanders support BDS. Faith leaders, PSU students, and many of our neighbors are currently boycotting the State of Israel and have encouraged others to do so. I am sure none of you would want to see the spectacle of Portlanders prosecuted for exercising their First Amendment rights. That would be shameful and would make our city complicit in the undermining of our basic freedoms.
 As the voice of our city, I respectfully ask you to formalize your opposition to this appalling piece of legislation by passing a resolution condemning it. Thank you for considering this request. Thank you, David. And Maria, I think, wanted to speak next. Is that correct? Very good. Hello. My name is Maria Barahona, and I am a member of Jewish Voice for Peace. I just want to clarify I will not be speaking about the Bureau of Development Services.
 Six months ago, I visited Palestine and witnessed the catastrophic situation of the Palestinians living under Israeli occupation. As a result of this experience, I have become a supporter of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement. I experienced the occupation through the many checkpoints where Palestinians stood in line for hours as part of their daily routine, through the separation wall and road blockades that divided communities, families, workers and even our team.
 Perhaps what most impacted me was my visit to the Nasser family farm, roughly about 100 acres, 6 miles southwest of Bethlehem. In 1991, the Israeli government declared the surrounding area, including the Nasser's portion, as Israeli state land. The Nasser family has all the original land registration papers from 1916 and has cultivated and re-registered the land through the Ottoman, British, Jordanian, and even Israeli governments.
 clearly demonstrating that the Israeli government has no right to declare it theirs. The family has been fighting a legal battle to keep hold of this land, accruing many legal expenses, continuing to pay taxes on their farm and still being punished at the same time. On May 14, 2014, at 4 a.m., bulldozers arrived and destroyed the entire orchard of fruit trees and grapevines. By the time the Nasser started working in the fields at 8 a.m., the trees were all gone.
 but the Nassers were resilient and continued. Since then, they have created an environmental peace center on their farm called Tent of Nations. They provide children's summer camps, a women's empowerment project, and offer volunteer opportunities to internationals. What's most impressive about the Nasser family is their resiliency. They have become a fully operating, self-sustainable farm, mostly because they had no choice.
 Since the family cannot get permits for running water, they built 15 cisterns enough to hold 200,000 gallons of water during a good rainy season, which is sufficient for the year. Since the family cannot get permits for electricity, they had a German engineer who was volunteering help them install solar panels. And when you first enter their farm, the first thing you see is a big slab of rock with the words engraved on it, We refuse to be enemies."
 So I keep coming back to the why. When a country repeatedly violates human rights and does not respond to decades of pressure through diplomatic efforts and international law or rulings, the logic would be that another level of pressure is needed, right? Right.
 BDS, Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions, is a clear organized nonviolent movement to resist discrimination and an illegal occupation. Free speech is in jeopardy under the Trump administration. If the Israel Anti-Boycott Act is passed, it would have chilling implications not only for supporters of Palestine, but also for anyone who cares about the right to dissent in the Trump era.
 So while I'm not asking for your endorsement of boycott, divestment, and sanctions, I am asking City Council to pass a resolution opposing the Israel Anti-Boycott Act and support the right to boycott. Thank you. Thank you. And then Rod, I think, is up next. Hi. Is that correct, sir? Correct. My name is Rod Such, and I'm with Occupation Free Portland. Thank you.
 I want to point out that there is substantial community and political opposition to the Israel Anti-Boycott Act in Portland and throughout Oregon. Our political leaders, Senator Merkley, Representatives Blumenauer and DeFazio, and the Multnomah County Democratic Party, have all gone on record opposing the Israel Anti-Boycott Act as currently written.
 Faith leaders oppose it. More than 35 Portland faith leaders have signed an open letter opposing anti-BDS legislation. Nationally, the leaders of 17 Christian denominations that support BDS have signed a statement opposing the Israel Anti-Boycott Act.
 Legal organizations oppose it, including the American Civil Liberties Union, the Center for Constitutional Rights, the National Lawyers Guild, and Palestine Legal. National organizations with chapters in Portland oppose it, including Jewish Voice for Peace, J Street, and MoveOn.
 Our opposition is based on the knowledge that the right to boycott is a key democratic right for those seeking justice using nonviolent means. In particular, it is a response to a call from Palestinian civil society urging BDS as a way to achieve their fundamental human rights. This is a call that thousands of Portlanders of conscience feel it is imperative to heed.
 just as Portlanders did in the 1980s to help end apartheid in South Africa. The Israel Anti-Boycott Act is an attempt to undermine a database created by the United Nations Human Rights Council listing corporations that are complicit in Israel's illegal occupation and violations of human rights and international law.
 A similar database helped end South African apartheid. It should come as no surprise that those who deny democratic rights for Palestinians will also try to deny democratic rights for U.S. citizens. They are trying to extend the same features of the Israeli occupation to the United States.
 We are urging you as counselors to lend your moral voice in opposition to any legislation that would revoke First Amendment protections, knowing that if our rights are denied, it is only a matter of time, especially under the Trump administration, before other people struggling for equal rights are also denied their free speech. We must reach the point in this country where the First Amendment and the Bill of Rights are not considered divisive.
 Thank you. Thank you. And Carol.
 Thank you. My name is Elizabeth Shepard. I'm filling in for Carol Lansman, who was not able to come. I support very strongly what the other people have said. And as David pointed out and Maria and Ron, but I want to especially emphasize my support for the right to boycott
 And mainly because I come from, I just recently read a post from the American Friends Service Committee.
 that they are on that list, blacklist, which seems ridiculous to me because they have a long history, over 100 years, of supporting peace and justice in a nonviolent manner. They are very anti-war. And I know that from personal experience because my ancestry is mainly Quaker-born.
 although I'm not Quaker, but my sister is. And I found out from reading that recent notice from AFSC that they exercised an anti, I mean a boycott against, it was called Free Food, Free Produce Movement before the Civil War movement.
 to support or to boycott against food that was produced by slave labor. And there are also many other instances of nonviolent protests that the Quakers and others have exercised as the previous speakers spoke about.
 And I have also been following the Palestinian efforts to resist the occupation. And really the only opportunity they have to protest is nonviolent, and even that is opposed by the Israeli government.
 the Israeli government. So I'm very strongly in alliance with the JVP and with other faith institutions. So thank you. Thank you very much. And, Olivia, I guess you're the wrap-up. Is that right?
 My name is Olivia Catby Smith, and I'm a member of Occupation Free Portland and the Democratic Socialists of America. In DSA, we have over 32,000 members nationwide. If the authors of the Israel Anti-Boycott Act had their way, all 32,000 of us, with nearly 700 of us here in Portland, would be penalized, criminalized, imprisoned because of our organization's support for the nonviolent boycott, divestment, and sanctions movement.
 Historically, the tactic of boycotting has resulted in huge civil rights victories, and divestments and sanctions are important tools of nonviolence that can effectively put pressure on powerful actors. You yourselves recognized that when you voted to divest from all corporate securities.
 Pushing the Israel Anti-Boycott Act is a top priority for AIPAC, an organization that proudly hosted Donald Trump as their conference headliner. The Jeff Sessions Justice Department, under the command of the Trump administration, is all too eager to silence activists who stand in the way of their racist, fascist mission. We have already seen the fates narrowly avoided by activists and journalists who were present at protests on J20 in D.C. last year. Threats like the Israel Anti-Boycott Act need to be taken seriously.
 The city of Portland has done a lot in the past year to combat hate. You say you stand with immigrants and refugees and Muslims. I would hope that would extend to the Arabs and Muslims in Portland who are Palestinian, who lived under unimaginable conditions, whose homes were taken from them, or whose ancestors were driven out, and all of their supporters, who
 Portland likes to call itself a progressive city. I would like for you to prove it and show us, even if symbolically, that you refuse to join the ranks of the Trump administration by staying silent on this abhorrent legislation. By staying silent, you become complicit. Very good. Thank you. Next item, item number 33. Thank you.
 Do the consent agenda first. Yeah, why don't we do that? Which items have been pulled from the consent agenda? Items 35 and 37. Very good. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. We will move on now to item 33, time certain. Okay.
 Proclaim January 7 through 13 to be Slavic and Eastern European Heritage Week. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. So we're really honored to have this celebration this morning and to read a proclamation. I want to thank our friend Irene Konev, one of the great Slavic leaders, for helping to organize this Slavic and Eastern European Heritage Week.
 I want to encourage everyone who's here today to visit the atrium between 11 and 1. There will be a celebration for this Heritage Week with cultural foods and music. There will also be a children's art exhibit, Portland Through the Eyes of Children, that will be on display here until Friday. What we're going to do is introduce the panel, have the mayor read the proclamation, and then come back to the prepared remarks from the panel.
 from an environmental technician, Stormwater Steward, the Bureau of Environmental Services is with us, and she will introduce our other two guests. Svetlana? Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning. You going to start? Oh, you're going to just, if you would introduce the other two. Okay. This is Tatiana Bandarchuk and Agrippina Alagos, and they're going to introduce themselves as they talk. And Tatiana is a crime victims advocate, Lutheran Community Services, and Agrippina? Agrippina.
 Excuse me. You like to go by the name? Penna. Okay. Is a port.
 Portland State University Russian flagship graduate student. So we're honored to have all three of you. The mayor will now read the proclamation. Very good. Could I ask one question first? What is a Russian flagship graduate student? A Russian flagship is a program provided by Portland State University to intensely learn not just the Russian language, but its culture and international relations. Related to it, they also have a year abroad studying in Russia and Kazakhstan as well as a summer. Okay.
 That's fantastic. And how many years is the program? It works along your major, so it could be four years, and then you can go further from there. That's great. What an opportunity. Great. So I will read the proclamation. We're a Slavic and Eastern European Americans are one of Portland's largest immigrant and refugee communities with over 150,000 people in the greater Portland area.
 And whereas Slavic and Eastern European Portlanders can trace their ancestry to 15 countries in the former Soviet Union and 14 other European countries with unique languages, dialects, cultures, and histories.
 And whereas the city of Portland has many Slavic and Eastern European employees and a Slavic empowerment team that works to build a more inclusive and diverse workforce, and whereas the Slavic empowerment team shares culture and art with city employees through celebrations, displays, performances, and whereas Portland is a welcoming, inclusive, and sanctuary city that celebrates its growing diversity –
 And whereas the city of Portland is proud of its relationship with all members of the Slavic and Eastern European community and will continue supporting their professional and economic advancement.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim January 7th to January 13th, 2018, to be Slavic and Eastern European Heritage Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this important week. Thank you. So now we'll go back to the panel. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for having us.
 I'm Svetlana Pell. I work for the Bureau of Environmental Services in the Stormwater Stewards Group, and I manage a Green Street Steward program and work to recruit volunteers to look after our green infrastructure. I also help co-lead the Slavic Empowerment Team, or SET, as we call it. SET is an affinity group sponsored by the diverse and empowered employees of Portland.
 SET supports the City of Portland's diversity efforts by providing Slavic-affiniated employees with opportunities to promote cultural awareness, empower each other, share expertise, and support professional development. Our goal at SET is to build relationships between the city and the Slavic community by making the city more diverse and responsive to the need of all residents.
 Slavic Empowerment Team provides three key services to the city and the Slavic communities. First, we work to help build a more diverse workforce by helping Slavs to apply for volunteer and paid city positions.
 Second, we inform the Slavic community about city policies, projects, programs, and community grants by volunteering to translate information from the city into the Russian, Ukrainian, and other Slavic languages.
 And finally, we work to educate the community about Slavic culture by hosting public displays of Slavic culture and by encouraging participation in the annual Portland Slavic Festival. It is with great pleasure and pride I reflect upon the accomplishments of SET during the team's second year.
 SED has successfully engaged city staff and the community by creating public space that celebrates city culture. Last year, we showcased two cultural displays that highlighted traditional Slavic clothing, art, and food, and organized a cultural celebration promoted by local Russian newspapers and radio stations, with live performances by local Slavic musicians Chervona and Natalia Baranova.
 And I would like to say thank you, and next Tatyana Bandarchuk will speak. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Morning. My name is Tatyana Bandarchuk, and I would like to raise my voice to support Slavic community. And I will tell my personal story. I was born in Russia, in Moscow region. My family and I faced persecution from the government because of our faith.
 I came as a refugee to the United States with two children in November of 2000, knowing only two English words, yes and no. I experienced cultural shock, separation from my family, lack of English language skills. But in 2001, I was able to get a part-time job at the Lutheran Community Services Immigration Counseling and Advocacy Program when I worked for five years.
 and serving Russian-speaking community members. But in 2006, my position was closed, and I got laid off because of grant ended. I was broken. I was going through the divorce because of domestic violence in my family. My car was stolen. I had limited English skills. I was a single mom with two children. I decided to go to college.
 In 2007, I was able to get on a call job at the Domestic Violence Coordination Office when I learned in the county level everything about domestic violence. In 2008, I was able to graduate through the Portland Immigrant Leadership Training sponsored by the Office of Mayor of City.
 In 2009, Lutheran Community Services got a grant, Portland Children's Levy's grant, when I started working as a case manager of child abuse intervention program among Eastern Europeans, when I served 100 families and 350 children who've been abused and exposed to violence.
 But ironically, in 2012, the grant ended and I got laid off again. Also, my position at Domestic Violence Coordination Office ended and I got laid off. Ironically, in one day, I lost two jobs. I decided to pursue my degree. I went to Portland State University and in 2013, I graduated with the master's degree in social work.
 In 2015, I've been accepted to U.S.-Russia Social Expertise Exchange Fellowship, and I went to Russia when I worked in five cities on domestic violence prevention, belonged to the Gender Equity Working Group. When I back two years, in 2015, I got an on-call position at Safety First Supervised Parenting Time Center when I served in supervised visits for domestic violence cases.
 In 2016, I was a nominee for the Judge Harrell Award for my 12 years work with survivors of domestic violence and their children. In 2016, in February, Lutheran Community Services got a grant for a community-based crime victim advocacy program, and I've been hired.
 I believe that I am only one Russian-speaking community-based crime victim advocate in Portland, in Multnomah County, in Oregon, and maybe in the whole country. Your grant in the past that you provided to nonprofit organizations helped me to get where I am now. I am serving 1,000 members from the Slavic community.
 Every month I am doing my live stream slash radio slash Facebook slash YouTube TV program on prevention different type of crime in the city of Portland. And I would like to say thank you to the Office of Mayor of City, to thank you to Office of Neighborhood Involvement, to Independent Police Review, to Commissioners Amanda Fritz who support Slavic Youth,
 to Dan Saltzman, to commissioners Nick Fish, and a big thank you to the chief of Portland police. 40 officers from the Portland police have been attending my TV program during the last two years.
 where we are educating Slavic community on different type of crimes such as sex trafficking, gang violence in Portland, hit and run investigation and more. And today I would like to ask please continue support us
 and we will serve those who are vulnerable and who are in need in our lovely city of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. And just as a footnote to that, since you mentioned the police barrow's participation in the program, I attended the most recent swearing-in ceremony for our new police officers. They have to go through an extensive training period before they'll actually be out on the streets.
 But two of those new officers are from the Slavic community directly, and they're very excited, and we're excited to have them with us. So thank you for that program.
 Thank you. And if I could also just comment, you certainly documented your story in terms of your employment and education. I want to honour your leadership in the Russian speaking network and all the volunteer work that you have done to make sure that people in your community know that they are part of the whole community and that the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement really appreciates the work that you've done over the years. Thank you. Thank you so much.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Agrippina Alagoas and I am a first-generation college student studying at Portland State University. I'm studying mathematics and statistics as well as Russian in the Russian Flagship Program as I mentioned earlier. I do have a long ancestral history. About 300 years ago, my great-great-grandparents were born in Russia in Khabarovsk area, so really northern Russia, when my grandparents were just children.
 Religious persecution and starvation forced them to flee to Harbin, China, where they then endured a long journey as immigrants to Hong Kong and then to Brazil, where my maternal grandparents had met.
 and married. My grandparents were teenage newlyweds when they immigrated from Brazil to Oregon and taught themselves English, raised 11 children, one of which was my mother. Here in Oregon, she herself had four children and as a single mother raised us all to prioritize school. This March I will be the first in my entire family, including all my many dozens and dozens of cousins, to be graduating with a four-year degree. Through PSU,
 I studied abroad this summer in Kazakhstan, learning not just the Russian language, but its culture and other topics such as international relations.
 I'm studying, as I said, mathematics and statistics at PSU, and while becoming proficient in Russian, I'm hoping to get involved with data analysis to report both data in English and Russian at a future workplace. With my background, I bring a unique perspective in any volunteer or job position. I intend to be one of the citizens that will serve the city with all I have learned and already know in both math and Russian relations. And I'm only one of 150,000 Slavic and Eastern European immigrants.
 citizens living in the Portland metro area, each with their own unique stories of how they got here and their own unique backgrounds. The diaspora of just the Russian community itself is substantial. I come from the Russian old believer community, and I know the perspective of other Russians within the different communities, and they each have their own uniqueness. And as a result, we carry great value and diversity to Portland as a whole. Thus, I feel we are a community to be recognized and celebrated.
 Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, I have a question. Commissioner Fish. Since each of you have such inspiring stories about your family history and how you came to this country, I wonder, in this past week, we've heard the administration talk about putting curbs on what's called family reunification programs.
 which is the provisions in the law that allow people to bring other family members to this country and to build community. And I wonder if any of you have any comment about that. Svetlana or other guests? I can start. I tried, but my family does not want to come here.
 And the reason is because they have no English background. And because my family is in their 60s now, they always continue telling me they can't learn English, which is not true. Everybody can. But all their friends and my extended family are also there, and their jobs are there, so they can just leave and come and live with me. Tatiana?
 It is very awesome when family actually get together. But my family is split. I have seven brothers and two sisters. My two sisters and two brothers live here, but my parents and five brothers are still in Russia, and they are not able to come.
 And yeah, it's very complicated. But since we have awesome technology right now, we have Skype, we can call. So we still have communication. Thank you. Mayor, a photograph? Sure. If you wouldn't mind, we'll just come right down in front. We'll take a picture. Thank you.
 Look at this paparazzi. And one more.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 38. Amend intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University for the Hatfield Fellows Program for training and leadership development to update the amount per fellow to $40,000.00.
 Colleagues, I'm pleased to support this program. The bureaus benefit from the expertise and energy of these bright fellows citywide, and you're personally familiar with many of them. I'm grateful to have one such fellow in my office who works on issues related to emergency management. That's Elizabeth Perez.
 This action is very narrow. It updates the per fellow to $40,000 and the total contract threshold to $1.2 million. Here to present is Gail Baird, Training and Development Manager for the Bureau of Human Resources. Good morning, Gail. How are you today? Good morning. I'm very well. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. So this will be an amendment to our current master contract,
 which updates the amount per fellow sponsored by the bureaus and also the total dollar amount. This contract expires at the end of this fiscal year, and we will be presenting an updated one for consideration in the coming months. So PSU and the city have partnered for a number of years on the fellowship program,
 It provides an opportunity to increase the capacity of public sector leadership by offering training and leadership development to students who compete for a fellowship. Each fellow is sponsored by a city bureau. They serve an eight-month stint.
 Typically working on a unique or specific project, and I would just mention that I've had the pleasure to work with Elizabeth Paris on training for the warming shelter volunteers most recently, and obviously very high-quality work being done there. So we accomplished a lot in a very compressed period of time.
 The sponsoring bureau provides a scope of work that describes the project goals and deliverables expected. And many of our fellows have in the past progressed on to regular employment with the city in one capacity or another. So happy to answer any questions that you have.
 Commissioner Frisch. I know this is an excellent program. I was just struck, however, that it's a $1.2 million program for 20 fellows.
 So with 40,000 per fellow, that would equal 30 fellows. So that seems a pretty high administrative cost going to Portland State University for administering this program. We only pay this as it goes. So it is paid out of adopted budget appropriations that are available to each hero. Right, but the information is, I think you just gave us, is that we're going to be increasing the number of fellows to 20 fellows.
 No, that's not my understanding. I had the same question, Commissioner. What I was told was, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, that what we're doing here is just setting the five-year procurement cap on how much can be expended, but this doesn't mean that there will be those. It still is subject to decisions as to whether to have a Hatfield Fellow, and then I believe that goes through the budget process. Yes, that is correct, Commissioner Fish.
 The total amount for this contract, and again it expires in 2018, will be actually it's 19 fellows, and the money is not spent unless a fellowship is accepted by a bureau. But the numbers then don't add up because 19 fellows times 40,000 does not get you to 1.2 million for this year. So the current amount this year, we have $240,000 for this year's participation.
 And so if we look at that over the four-year period, it does come to close to $1.2 million. Let me ask the question a different way. How much do we pay to Portland State University in administrative costs for this program? The administrative cost is...
 We pay to Portland State, and they, I would just mention, they remain the employer of record. So they pay all of the other administrative and employment-related costs for the fellow. So the sponsor fee is $40,000. The fellow receives $24,000 as a stipend. So this $1.2 million for the current fee?
 The current fiscal year is for up to 30 fellows, is that correct? That is the total amount over the four-year period since 2014, since the original master IGA was entered into by council. Okay, so then the title of the ordinance is misleading because it says the total contract not to exceed $1.2 million for financial year 17-18. That's the total contract amount, it's a not to exceed over the four-year lifespan. Okay.
 So perhaps it could have been worded differently. I would agree with that. Okay, thank you. Certainly. Further questions for Gail? Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have two people signed up. Very good. These coming up are Shedrick J. Wilkins and Dee White. Gail, if you just want to take a seat. I will, thank you. We might call on you for follow-up questions. Okay. Go ahead, Shedrick. Thank you.
 Yes, I'm Cedric J. Wilkins, and I'm a PSU alumni, and sometimes I question whether I should have spent that much money there, but I do highly commend respecting the life or memory or honor of Senator Mark Attenfield, who was a senator for 30 years, governor for eight years. He was, like I say, a Republican, but very liberal. I have his book. I read his book all the time. It's a good history class of how –
 like I say, he basically started out in the old days where Oregon was a wood state, you know, make a little timber to a state with a bunch of dams on the Columbia river that supplied electricity for tektronics and high tech. I mean, this guy was really, his life is just amazing. And he always tried to make sure that, uh,
 Oregon was involved with the space program. In fact, his son was friends with Buzz Aldrin, who landed on the moon, Mark Hatfield's son. I love his book. It's like he is Oregon at the time, and an amazing person. And I take, as a PSU grad, I will step aside and just say this is money well spent. Thank you, Cedric.
 Good morning, Dee. Hi, I'm Dee White. It doesn't matter where I live anymore.
 I would like to just repeat what Commissioner Fritz brought up, and that's what it's gone up by $340,000, this intergovernmental agreement. It's gone from $460,000 to $800,000, and that's at $40,000 per 20 fellows. You all have increased it. So it's got...
 It's gone up by $340,000, the administrative cost, and yet the contract is not to exceed $1.2 million. So what I want to know is not only why is it costing so much, but why is there a $400,000 gap there not to exceed $1.2 when it's only $80,000? Plus, in this...
 ordinance, it says that the Bureau, the Human Resources Director is authorized to execute future amendments to increase the not to exceed threshold of $1.2 million amount up to 25%. So that means they can increase it, the Bureau of Human Resources can increase this threshold
 $300,000. So that's $700,000 that is going to, for administrative costs. And you say it's, let's see, I
 It's to arrange for unique leadership development, to introduce the fellows to Oregon's unique structure of local, city, and state government. I mean, yeah, it's unique, all right. And also, the sponsor fee.
 Wait a minute, I want to read why this thing is going to cost so much more. It's in here, I'm sorry, just a minute. It's about, wait a minute, I'm sorry, let's see.
 Oh, here it is. This sum, it covers expenses such as recruitment, placement, and an orientation. So are you telling me that $400,000 or $800,000, the money is going to go towards recruitment and orientation? I'm sorry. I just think that this is so full of holes. There's so much slushing money slushing around. Wow.
 We have no way to account for it. We have no way to follow up on this because it's an intergovernmental agreement. So, Dee, thank you for that. And, Gail, could you come back up for just a moment, please? So, Gail, I have a proposal because I think there are some questions being raised here that we can't answer. Okay. Okay.
 And I think there's some legitimate questions here about the overhead cost, why the cost of this program has gone up. And I think it would be helpful for all of us if we could dig into that a little deeper over the course of the next week and then bring it back.
 and have a more thorough discussion of how we're getting to the numbers that we're getting. Because I have to agree that I think Commissioner Fritz's questions are questions we are sharing, and there's questions about the overhead and the reasons for the ask. And rather than putting you on the hot seat and grilling you and grilling you, let's take all of these questions back and come back with thorough answers for each of them. So, Mayor, can I make two other suggestions? Please.
 So we have some experience in the bureaus using this program as part of our efforts to recruit talent. So we're competing for these students in the future, and we're using this program as a way of getting them in the door and then hoping to hire them. It's also been helpful as part of our plans to have a more diverse workforce.
 But it does seem to me, Mayor, that if we're going to have a presentation on this, we should invite the coordinator of the program from Portland State, Phil Kiesling, to come and just explain the program because not everyone on this panel has been here since we launched this. Have Mr. Kiesling explain it, why the overhead, what the goals are, and then let the council make their decision. Yeah, and I want to be clear before I let Commissioner Fritz speak next.
 I don't think anybody here is questioning the value of the program, and certainly Elizabeth has been a rock star as far as I'm concerned. I'm very, very pleased with her performance, and I know that that's the broad consensus for all of our fellows. So this isn't about the value of the program. I think the question is really the economic hydraulics and the finances underlying the program that we have further questions about.
 Commissioner Fretz. Thank you, Mayor. I was going to say the same thing. The program is wonderful, and I really appreciate the fact that it's available both for the students and for the city. I think it works really well. The questions I had arose from the impact statement that were provided, where it does say that this is for 10 to 20 people for a total of $1.2 million for this fiscal year. So that's the clarification that I need. Certainly. Because I'm not seeing it in the rest of the documentation either about –
 Was it for a longer period of time? So, Mayor, we're going to set this over until next week? Yes, please. And does that work with you, Gail? Yes, absolutely. Could you come back next? I appreciate that. Good. So don't be alarmed by a two-step process. This is often how we operate, just to get to the net of the questions that we have, and then we can come back and be thorough about it. Okay. Certainly. Thank you very much. Thank you. And thank you for everybody who testified on this as well. Next item, item 39, please.
 Declare city property located on Southwest Broadway and Southwest Grant as surplus and authorize its disposition. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, today is the final step in a lengthy process we've gone through of property disposition with the goal of saving the historic Morris Marks House. We are pleased to support the good work of our community members, especially Rick Michelson and Karen Carlson.
 Mike Stewart, Director of the Portland Water Bureau, and Tom Klutz, Portland Water Bureau Property and Acquisition Services Manager, are here to make the presentation. Gentlemen. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. We are here today with a good news story. What we're asking here is authorization to complete the sale and all the necessary documents of a 4,700-square-foot piece of property. Okay.
 But as with all Water Bureau property, there's always an interesting story that goes along with them. I think you have this set of slides. The first picture is where it's at. PSU has been in everybody's name today, so in the upper right of that picture is where PSU is. So, Mike, what slides are you talking about? Let's hold off until Carla has a chance to hand them out. Thank you. But remember, the public doesn't have these slides, so you're going to have to describe. Yeah.
 So the location of the piece of property is kind of across Highway 405 from PSU between Broadway and 6th. That's the first slide. The second slide is the historic piece. This piece of property, originally called the 6th and Lincoln Reservoir, what you see there is the tank, in-ground tank, that was built sometime between 1868 and 1871.
 And it was bought by the Portland Water Company at the end of 1871. And then in 1887, the Water Committee of the City of Portland bought the Portland Water Company. So we inherited this. So this was originally, I think, the first tank or reservoir that the Portland Water Bureau, the entity that became the Portland Water Bureau, owned.
 It was supplied by a spring and a pump from the Willamette River, if you can believe that.
 It was shut down, and to the best the Bureau was able to determine, this thing never had full-run water in it. It was basically filled in. It was an entire city block. Now there's 4,700 square feet remaining. Most of the rest of the property was swallowed up by easements rights away and Highway 405. So that's where the property is. The next slide.
 minus the orange fencing is what the thing actually looks like. So you might remember it if you've driven across Broadway and gone across the top of 405. That's where it is. And what it looks like today is the last slide, and that is the Morris Marks House, a historic house. One might wonder how come that house is sitting on the property when we haven't sold it. There's an interesting tale here. In 2016...
 Mayor Hales and the Parks Bureau, who at the time thought they owned the property, made arrangements to save the Marks house because there was going to be big construction projects at PSU and it would be gone. So non-top, Karen Carlson and Rick Michelson undertook to find a place for this historic property and get it moved, and the Parks Bureau got it all lined up.
 And in winding our way through all the documents, we find that the property had a checkered history. It was bought by the Water Bureau way back when, two centuries ago, in the second century ago.
 It was set up to be sold to the Parks Bureau twice in the 1920s, and the bill was never paid, so the property remained on the Water Bureau's rolls. Eventually, an ordinance was passed that allowed the Parks Bureau to operate for a park, but the ownership remained with the Water Bureau, and it was buried in the language, and nobody saw it.
 So at the end of 2017, right after the new mayor, we picked that project up. Parks Bureau had done a lot of great work to save this historic house. We basically picked up from there and organized to work with Karen and Rick to get this project.
 property moved. These processes take quite some time, as you can imagine. There's lots of title research and so on. We couldn't get all the documents done in time to allow the house to move
 because PSU has a large construction project underway to do some renovation and build a new building. So we worked with the PSU facilities department, and they helped us out. And our way to handle that was we did all the internal workings that you need to do to dispose of property internally.
 There's an administrative rule that allows us to not advertise the property publicly. If it's in the public interest, we felt this was in the public interest. We have the backing of our commissioner, obviously, and the city attorney's office in that. And we decided to use a market report from an appraiser and a tax roll price, $180,000, to sell the property.
 Because the building had to be moved before we could complete all of this, we executed a lease with Nontop that protects both them and the city. And so right now the Marks house is sitting on the property by lease. And in accordance with this ordinance, we have about 30 days to finish the final details and file title and so on.
 There's three or four easement and dedication documents that will be included in the title and the final documents. These documents are prepared, and what we are asking you here today to do is to allow us to finalize that sale. The sale price is $180,000, and the form is going to be roughly what you see in the sale documents. Any questions I can answer? Mike, let me just add one other historical footnote. I found a book on –
 historic structures of Portland, and I learned that the Morris Marks House has moved at least twice. And each time it's moved, the building has been sawed in half and then relocated. And for this building to be relocated, because of the distance it had to travel and the
 some of the restrictions along the way. It was also sawed in half for a second time and then reassembled. I think there is a total of somewhere around 14 bedrooms in this house, and it has a very distinguished pedigree. This will be the home, I believe, going forward of the Portland Parks Foundation. Really? It will be in part. I believe that's one of the goals that Rick Michelson has set, along with some other nonprofits. Yes.
 Actually, I think that's been extensively discussed with the Parks Bureau, but that was what the original vision was when it came to the Parks Bureau, when you were actually handling the transaction, Commissioner Fritz. As someone who really loves old buildings and saving old buildings, I think this is a very cool, cool building. We're doing this in the public interest. The property has basically been sitting there. It's in kind of an awkward spot, and it's not very big. 4,700 square feet is not very big. But maybe...
 One of the things that we were careful to do is we coordinated with a neighborhood association, a downtown association, and both support this activity. So just to be clear, the parties that wanted to make this happen covered all the costs of transporting the house, and we've determined that $180,000 is going to be used to transport the house.
 is a reasonable value for the piece of dirt that this has been located to, correct? Correct. It's based on an appraisal and the tax value. And we are going to retain a number of easements because of things that are happening underneath that piece of dirt. Yes, the easement documents are all prepared, and they'll be filed. We have an easement and a dedication for PBOT. We have an easement for BES, who has a sewer line in the vicinity, and we always have a water line there. So we'll make sure we protect the city's interest in this.
 It also connects the green loops. It's green loop easement for PBOT as well. Okay. Any other questions? Beat me to the punch. Very good. Public testimony, please. Yes, we have one person signed up, Joe Walsh. Coming up, sir. Yes. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals with Justice. I'm a frequent flyer.
 One of the things that we were whispering about over there was we didn't have a clue what you were talking about because you were referring to slides that didn't exist. You had them on your documents. We don't have them. People at home don't have them. There was nothing up on the board. This was one report or...
 item that was totally ill-prepared. Even Commissioner Fritz was taken by surprise by a statement in it. You're going to vote on this, but I just want to tell you something. That when I go home and I talk to Patty, she watches this on television, and I know she's going to say to me today, what in God name were they talking about? Where were the slides? I
 They kept referring to slides, and they slid that away. Can I respond, Joe? Pardon? Can I respond? I don't know. You have to ask the presiding official. I just want to say I agree with you. The slides should have been part of a PowerPoint, and that's on me.
 No, it's not. It is. I reviewed and approved the presentation. You can cover for your staff. But usually I defend staff also. I like staff. Okay? We should have put it in a PowerPoint. But this was a sloppy presentation. I'm sorry. We should have put it in a PowerPoint. And to your earlier comment, just remember, this was originally a Parks Bureau project. All the details were worked out with the Parks Bureau. What changed at the 11th hour was we learned that it was actually a piece of property owned by the Water Bureau, not the Parks Bureau.
 Okay, now we're getting to the thing that we got into last week about formulizing. You know, that doesn't happen. They're asking for permission to do something, and you're going to give it to them. However, I'm just pointing out, as a citizen and a frequent flyer, that you confused us. And if you confuse us, that are sitting over there in the whispers, and everybody would think, where are these slides? What are they talking about?
 You confuse everybody that's watching this, and that's sloppy. And if you want to take the credit for that, I think that's nice, but it's not accurate. Staff screwed up on this one. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. I do agree. I don't think there's been enough information provided. The statement of slides...
 Nothing again was provided to the public. So to make that statement and not provide that to the public in a public forum such as we're in. Lightning, can I just respond to that for a second? Absolutely. You'll recall, and I know that we have a lot of stuff on our agenda, we've actually had a full public hearing on this previously.
 Today is the final action, but we had a whole public hearing with the history of the site, the decision to relocate the building, all the details, all the historical documents. So that was already done. What we're doing today is the final act, which is authorizing the disposition. But I want you to know there was a full hearing.
 It's on me that I thought that that was sufficient. We should have gone back and reminded people of what we had already put in the record, and we'd be happy to provide you with a link to the full public hearing we had at council on this project. Okay, thank you for your position there. But my position is that we have an ordinance in front of us as the public at a council meeting at City Hall today
 to have our input on this. And this ordinance is about to declare city property, and you will vote on that. And you're asking us to either agree? Just to be clear, and again, I apologize for the confusion. Okay. It's already been declared surplus. It's already been approved by council for this purpose. What we are doing now is executing the various legal documents, including a lease agreement. Okay, but if I'm reading this ordinance, and I'll read this again,
 Authorize council to declare city property located on Southwest Broadway and Southwest Grant as surplus and authorize its disposition by this ordinance. Correct. By this ordinance that is in front of me as the public. And I am saying I haven't seen the pictures that was stated, the slides. That is my position. Now, if I'm reading this ordinance incorrectly...
 which I don't believe I am, as the public, what's in front of me, then by all means let me know. Now, moving along a little bit farther on this, again, one of my concerns is, is there a closing date that was stipulated? I don't believe there's any closing date stated on this. Another issue I have, was there a broker involved on the
 value that was stated. Who does the broker represent? Is it dual agency, single agency? Is there a broker receiving a commission on this? It's very important to me to understand who are they representing. Another issue I have, it was stated that there might be currently a water tank on the property. Again, I didn't see the slides.
 Once upon a time, it was a reservoir. There's no longer a reservoir. There's nothing there. Okay. You have pipes underneath the property, but it's no longer a reservoir. Okay. So there's no tank on the property. Is that correct? Correct. Okay. And that's one of the things I wanted to have clarified on this at this meeting, if there was any historic significance to that particular tank and the history of it to have it remain there. Again, my main concern is to make sure we receive the information
 the proper value for the property. Again, you've stated in this agreement on the lease itself that the lease payments would be reverted back to the overall price itself in the agreement. Now, I disagree with that. If you're receiving a lease payment on the property, that should be retained by, quote, the seller and not be –
 taken back to the original sales price. Now, maybe I'm reading this agreement incorrect, but it's my understanding. You're saying the lease payments will be applied back to the sale price. Again, what's the point of doing a lease if you're not going to receive that income for your time until they close on the property? They don't own this property as of today. They will not own this property. And again, that's why I've asked, when is this property going to actually close?
 And that's very important to me on the lease payments and where that money ends up going. Is there an actual closing date on this property? Yes. So you finished with your question? Yeah, if you could answer that. So thank you. Lightning, there's Exhibit A to the ordinance, which is in the public record. Yes. At page two has the closing date.
 which is 30 days from the date all the conditions have been satisfied. So it's a normal closing process. It has a deposit, a balance due, and then it has all the contingencies that have been worked out. That's in the document that the council today is approving.
 And it specifically says at the top of page 2, under subparagraph 2, closing date, it sets the time for the closing date. What time is that? It's 30 days from the date all condition precedents have been satisfied or waived. Okay, if I might add on that, if all conditions aren't satisfied, are we going to also expect them to pay additional amount of money to extend this time? We'll ask. That's a good question. Okay, so I want it closed. You've stated in 30 days, I want it closed in 30 days. All cash funded...
 At that time. No, no, this has been consistently something you've raised at council about leases and payments, so I appreciate it. And whatever I can't get you an answer today, we'll send you an e-mail with the answers. Okay, thank you for your time. Thank you very much, Leighton. Put it on the table, and when we bring staff up, we can – What's that mean? Just put the question on the table, and then when we bring staff up, we can ask him the question. Go ahead. Okay.
 Go ahead. Please. Okay. Commissioner Fish, I'm just curious. Put your name in the record, please. Sorry. My name is Mimi Gurman. Hi.
 Regarding process, this is a process question. So today was for a vote, right? Right. Okay. So why is there a presentation then when there's a vote if it's already been discussed in the past? Like today seemed like a true presentation where you guys received quote-unquote slides and there was more information that was brought out. Let me answer the question. Yeah. So no good deed goes unpunished, right?
 So I haven't been here the last four days. I have something else I have to attend to. When I saw the presentation, I said I thought my colleagues would enjoy seeing a photograph of what the historic use of that site was. I should have said skip it. It doesn't matter. I thought people would be interested in knowing it was once a reservoir, that it's this tiny little irregular shape of property that's had no use forever. Right.
 and that we've now not only saved a historic piece of property, but we found a home for it, and we've generated revenue for our rate payers. So I thought they would enjoy my colleagues seeing the photographs. I should have said skip it, or I should have said it should be in the PowerPoint. But you know what? I think we're PowerPoint heavy here. And also what I've noticed is half the PowerPoints never get launched. So I said hand it out. That's on me.
 That's on me. The only thing that added with those pictures is to see historically what that site looked like 100 years ago. And I should have just skipped it because it raised more questions than it was worth. And today's action is approving a lease on a transaction the council has already blessed. So it is a ministerial action. Council has already approved all the pieces. And so that's why the presentation was pro forma.
 If we did not do a good job communicating, that's on me as the commissioner in charge, and we'll do a better job next time. Okay. It just seemed to me that there was more that was coming out today before the vote, even though you had said that it was already discussed previously. All of those details were previously discussed. But what I have learned, and Mimi, this is a good lesson, that if there's an interval of a week or two or three or four between actions we take, we might as well treat it as a new matter.
 Because most people are busy lives. They don't remember all the details. So we'll go back and we'll give that sort of 101 of how we got here and then present the matter. And I think that's fair criticism. Okay. Thank you. That was it. Good strategy. Thank you. I think it's good for criticism. Thank you. Mike, did you want to come back up and answer some? No, I don't think so, Mayor. We're ready for a vote. We're not voting. This is just going to second. So if you want to do that. I'd just like to make a comment. Commissioner Fritz. I believe this is going to second reading next week.
 It's no surprise to me. I don't think we need any more information, really, honestly. Really don't know. What I would suggest, Commissioner, is when you finally execute this contract, could you get me a copy because I'm going to take it to the site and take a wooden stake and drive it through the contract? Because...
 You started your involvement in 2016. Mine goes back to, I believe, 2007. It could even have been 2005 when I was given a house party by Dr David Cutler and his wife Nancy, and they brought this Morris Marks house to my attention at that time. So throughout my time in office, I have been looking for a solution to this, and we've had multiple different opportunities. I want to particularly thank not only my current staff, Pooja Bhatt,
 Christina Nieves, Tim Crail my previous staff Patti Howard and Tom Bizot who have all really worked a lot a lot on this and also Rachel Wiggins in Mayor Hales' office who pretty much devoted her last year it seemed like or maybe more than that so thank you to the City Attorney's Office thank you to your staff
 this is actually a good thing that we're getting done here preserving this historic building and it is evidence that we do things very carefully that we have different processes and as Commissioner Fish just said we will all be mindful that when we bring things back that are part of a series we'll do a brief recap so that everybody understands it if they happen to miss the previous hearing Thank you. And I will be holding the incense as she's driving the stake through the
 There's two things I want to add. And first of all, I deeply appreciate the feedback we got today. I agree with it. So let's be clear. I agree with it. But let's be clear because what we often hear in testimony from some of Mr. Walsh refers to himself as a frequent flyer. And he has interesting things to offer from time to time. And one of the things that's here I think really interesting is that we met multiple community objectives through one action.
 We took a piece of dirt that was laying fallow for a long time that was not usable for many purposes because it had so many things going on underneath it. We found a way to preserve a historic structure. A group of private citizens stepped in and spent a million dollars to relocate and cover all the costs at no public expense. We negotiated a sale price, which was deemed to be a fair price. And in the short term, we had a lease agreement so everyone's rights and responsibilities were clear.
 And it may very well be the future home of a number of distinguished enterprises, including the Portland Parks Foundation. So that's all good. But there's one piece that Commissioner Fritz left out, because this thing hit not just a bump in the road, it hit a brick wall, and it wasn't going to happen. And that's where Todd and my team stepped in once we learned that it was no longer a Parks Bureau property and it was a Water Bureau property. And then we had a very limited period of time to act because the clock was running.
 And had we not acted quickly, this building would have been demolished because of the development that was happening in the PSU campus. And that's where the magic happened. Great groundwork was laid. But Todd Lofgren and others and the Water Bureau, working with other sister bureaus, moved mountains to save this building. So to me, this is sort of a happy ending story. Thank you.
 We'll do a better job next time telling the story. So, Mayor, thank you. Thank you. And I'd like to make one comment as well. I hope that given the seriousness of the issues we discuss here, I still hope there's space for us to have some fun from time to time, and I think we're having a little bit of fun today. But I want to underscore something Commissioner Fish said. I actually am going to –
 see if somebody smarter than me can put these pictures on my website, because I find them intensely interesting. I did not know...
 that there was a reservoir in this location. And I know people may not know the location we're talking about. It's on Broadway right as you come up I-405. That's the 6th Street exit, actually. On your right-hand side, there's a small patch of dirt completely surrounded by traffic. It's a traffic circle, essentially.
 And it's right across the street, for those of you who are old-timers, from where Jerry's Gable used to be. I don't know if anybody here remembers Jerry's Gable. It was a great place, great Italian food, and it has something of an important historical footnote on it. That's where Bud Clark, as I understand it, was a waiter. That's where he started his career as a waiter prior to the Goose Hollow Inn, prior to being the mayor of the city of Portland. And it was a place I know that...
 My family enjoyed taking me. And as Commissioner Fish said, this is a really good story. And my suspicion is, though we're struggling a little today, 10 years from now people are going to look back and they'll look at that building and they'll look at the use of the building and the fact that people in this city, citizens from across the city, came forward to protect and preserve this.
 that property, apparently for the third time. I did not know that, and that's interesting. Well, second time. Second time it's been sawed in half. And by the way, for those of you who are drawn to the mayor's website to look at these historic pictures, you'll note that in the picture that has the original reservoir on the site, there's a little figure in the middle of the reservoir. We've identified that as Ebenezer Wheeler, and we think it's a relative. Okay.
 We think it's a relative. You know, the funny thing, Nick, is I was looking at the historic photo. Later arrested, actually, for peeing in the reservoir. We had another footnote of history. The thing that I actually immediately went to is the roads are covered with ice. Yes.
 And I wondered, how much crud is the mayor taking for the ice on the roads? But at any rate, so that was all interesting. Thank you, everybody who testified. Thank you very much. Thank you for your team. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, item number 40.
 Vacate a portion of Northwest Roosevelt Street between Northwest 29th and Northwest 30th Avenues subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Saltzman. I will turn it over to our capable staff, Lance Lindahl. Thank you, Commissioner. Hello, my name is Lance Lindahl, Peabot Right-of-Way Acquisition. Before you today is a request to vacate Northwest Roosevelt Street between Northwest 29th and Northwest 30th Avenues.
 This vacation was petitioned by Cairn Pacific Properties, the current owner of the property located to the south of the vacation area. The property to the north of the vacation area is currently owned by the Bill Nadeau Company, and they are in full support of this vacation as proposed, and they are also in discussions with Cairn Pacific to sell the property to them. The reason for this vacation is to consolidate the adjacent properties for redevelopment.
 Karen Pacific plans to construct three separate mixed-use buildings, a standalone retail building, and 15 townhouse units. Two of the mixed-use buildings will be built over the street area, and construction is expected to begin later this year. The vacation area is currently paved, but it's not approved to city standards, and it's being used by an adjacent property owner as a privately managed parking and storage area.
 As a condition of approval for this vacation, the property owners have agreed to dedicate 6,272 square feet as public right-of-way. And this is along Northwest Nikolai Street to the north of the vacation area. And this action will correct for a past error in which a public sidewalk was constructed over private property. If there's any questions, I'm here to help.
 Just in line, thank you, Mayor, in line with our previous discussion. In the future, if you could come with a slide to show the map and maybe a picture, that would be helpful. Okay. I will do that. Thank you. Further questions? Public testimony? No one signed up. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next item is the four-fifths agenda, 40-1. Thank you.
 Authorize disposal of unusable surplus property and authorize an intergovernmental agreement to transfer property to City of Battleground, Washington. Very good. And we have Bob Delgizzi here today. Good morning, Bob. Good morning. Bob Delgizzi, Portland Police Bureau Business Operations Manager.
 Could you – well, I know somewhat about this, so I'll give an introduction and then tell me if I got any of it wrong. Very good. So this is the transfer of a single police protective vest –
 and it's going to Battleground, Washington. As I understand it, the vests are very specifically tailored to individuals, so they take lots and lots of chest measurements, and therefore these vests are not broadly usable by other people. However, in this particular case, we put the request out. The request was responded to from Battleground, Washington. They have a new officer who is just starting out,
 uh, who this vest would fit. Uh,
 The vests, as I understand it, are fairly expensive if you do it brand new because they do have to be customized. So we have an opportunity here to transfer a perfectly usable vest to Battleground Washington. And per our disposition policy, it has to come to the city council. It may seem a little extreme to bring a matter to the city council for one vest, but we are doing it nonetheless. Mayor, do we not have a de minimis floor that –
 In our code, I mean, we could be next time discussing the transfer of a walkie-talkie that no longer is a specification. I mean, I'm serious. Is there a minimum in our district? Commissioner Fitch, I think I can answer that question for you.
 The reason we're in front of council is because this is an intergovernmental agreement with Battleground, and that does require council authority. The intergovernmental agreement sets out the responsibilities and a waiver of liability for the city. And a vest? A vest.
 Yes. What's the value of this vest? So brand new, these vests are approximately $660, and they have a 60-month warranted lifespan, at which point they are destroyed. And this vest is about 10 months old. So why couldn't we just send a letter saying we offer this with a disclaimer of all warranties?
 In working with the city attorney's office, we determined that for this to be a binding agreement, it needed to be contractual, which would make it an intergovernmental agreement. Mayor, I suggest, I think there's another way to go about this, just to, I think a one-page letter with places for two signatures, it simply disclaims any warranty or liability. And I think there also should be a mechanism.
 For something like this, which we applaud, I mean, this is something we should be supporting. It doesn't require council action below a certain threshold. It just seems to me this is a lot of legal work and a lot of time for something that I don't see warrants this kind of attention. I will raise that with legal counsel. I think it's a good suggestion. Further questions? Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz. My understanding is the reason this is coming is the four-fifths speech wasn't even on the agenda because normally Commissioner Vicious would have gone on consent and therefore not have had a public hearing unless pulled by somebody but the
 urgency of getting this officer protected best was deemed important, and I agree with that. All right. Very good. Public testimony. Yes, we have four people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Robert West, Joe Walsh, and Cedric J. Wilkins. Indeed. One-page testimony. Disclaimer of life. Yes, sir. Thank you.
 Yes, my name is Robert West. I'm with the Police 911. And I'd like to bring up something.
 The Portland Police continually went to you guys and said, we need money for this and we need money for that. Now, all of a sudden, the Portland Police want to give things out. The vest is not usable for anybody currently within the Portland Police Bureau. We know who the class is that is in training that will be available to come on duty within the next year. None of them fit the vest either. So there is no way to use this vest here in the Portland Police Bureau prior to the warranty expiring.
 Well, at least charge them something. I mean, we put out all this money for a vest. I mean, I can't even get a media card or media permit unless I put up $600. And you guys are just giving a $600 vest over to Battleground Washington. It's another town. You know, do they have money? Can they afford the vest? Yes.
 So we were actually going to dispose of the vest, and somebody suggested that we actually see if somebody could use it rather than landfilling it. And in this case, we found somebody who could use it. Well, you guys don't. But, yes, as an alternative, we could certainly toss it in the trash. Yeah, because you guys don't do that with other things. You know, the city tosses stuff all the time, computers, laptops. Actually, we recycle it, but just so you know.
 I'm sure the vest could be recycled, too. But I'm just saying that, you know, it's a shame to buy something and then just turn around and give it out to another city. To me, it seems wrong, and it seems irresponsible of city monies. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm...
 I'm Cedric Wilkins and I misunderstood the term vest or just one vest. I don't, if it was a whole bunch of vests, I don't think that's proper. But since it's just one, I think you could consider it a gift and something that we would just throw away. So I support giving it to Battleground Washington. I misunderstood. I thought it was a whole bunch of stuff. And you're giving a whole bunch of stuff to...
 To Washington State. Well, like he says, well, they buy the role. Okay. Just one. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Again, for the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We're also confused on this and the explanation of just one non-usable vest we're giving to another police department. That's what the wording is saying. This non-usable vest. Why are we doing it? Why don't we give them a new one? I don't know.
 I mean, why would we give them a non-usable vest? No, to be clear, it's non-usable for us for the reasons that I just explained to Mr. West. It is not usable for the Portland Police Bureau because they are measured to specific measurements. There is nobody in the Portland Police Bureau who can use this vest.
 So rather than throwing it in the garbage and sending it to the landfill and paying the tipping fees at your expense, what we decided to do was see if there was somebody somewhere else who could use it for the remainder of the warranty. Lo and behold, there is an officer coming on duty in Battleground, Washington, who can use it. So common sense led us to that conclusion. And you're also saying to us that this did not open the door for a flood of other stuff. No, sir.
 Okay, so this is one vest that we're giving. One vest. Because we found this officer that's coming into their police department, and it just fits nice. And we're going to do it, and we're going to save money for everybody. Exactly. It's my Thanksgiving. It's wonderful. We approve it. Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Again, from my position, and also we talked on tasers and these type of vests, is that...
 I don't think you're going to be able to limit your liability if that officer in, say, Battleground uses this vest and it malfunctions in any way and he receives harm because of it. The reality is that you may have a warranty for 60 months, and I understand it's only been 10 months on this vest, but the reality is that you're transferring...
 that liability issue over, whether you think your agreements are going to be sound and strong enough not to do that, the reality is that you don't want to transfer that liability over. It doesn't make sense. And as you know, liability issues with the Portland Police is one of the biggest concerns, plain and simple, liability issues.
 So when you transfer that type of equipment over, it shouldn't be transferred over. It should remain within the Portland Police Bureau. Even though it was custom made for somebody, their certain body size, the reality is that if somebody over in Battleground is able to use it, somebody down the line could possibly use it before the warranty expires. And my only real question at the end of my speech is, does that warranty actually transfer over? No.
 To that officer in Battleground, because that's an interesting question on the transferability of a warranty on that type of equipment, even as a taser, anything like that. Can I give you a 10-second answer? Absolutely. Because I don't know anything about the law.
 on this, but I recently bought a used car and we took it as is. Sure. And I am out of luck if there's any problem with the car. Absolutely. And the law is clear. I'm out of luck. I took it as is. Sure. And as long as no one made a material misrepresentation. Sure. And the law of the land allows you to do that, to give something to someone with a full disclaimer of warranty and rights, and it is then up to the receiving party to decide whether that's a good deal or not. Okay.
 But as long as we don't misrepresent the condition, this thing is the greatest thing ever, this thing is whatever, then the law is that it is the buyer beware and the buyer takes it subject to the disclaimers. I'm not the lawyer on this, and we can spend a lot of time on the law, but probably this is another reason why this matter, I wish it was back on consent with something else. But that's the law of warranties.
 And your question about whether we should transfer property or not is a good question. You know, we transfer fire trucks to the Mexican – to a city in Mexico once they've reached a certain lifespan here.
 There's a valid public policy question about whether we should do that. We should have that discussion. But legally, we can do it without having any future liability, as long as we don't make any misrepresentations. Okay, I still have remaining time. My position, again, is when you brought up the term a car, even when a dealer sells a car and he sells a car with not having proper brakes that work properly and the family takes it out that same day, crashes...
 and they're killed, he is 100% liable for his actions because of what he did. 100% liable. So what I'm saying is when we're talking a safety vest, when somebody is shooting at someone and it malfunctions, to put yourself in that position to where you could be 100% liable for that action on one vest...
 It's to me foolishness from the city's position. And let me finish, sir. Absolute foolishness from a liability position. Now, granted, it may seem like you're doing something good and something kind.
 But you're not when you're talking this type of equipment and if it malfunctions. And I can guarantee you these warranties that they have in place on this, if you were to talk to these people that manufacture these vests, they would agree with me. They would say, you do not want to transfer this to someone else. You don't want to do that. We're in the business to do this. We have insurance that will cover this, but you don't want to do it.
 It doesn't make sense to me from a liability standpoint. And I appreciate the person bringing this up to the council meeting today. I thought it was very informative and appreciated. Thank you. Thank you very much. Was there one more? One more. Edith Gillis. Thank you. Thank you. A lot of interest in this vest. For making sure that we...
 Take care of our investments, our liability, our funding. I'm reading it says, number one, the police bureau has and wishes to dispose of the custom-fitted protective vest of a member of the bureau subsequent to the officer's retirement. Two, the city of Battleground, Washington, will hire that member of the bureau subsequent to the retirement. That police officer, had it custom-fitted protective
 wore it, wants it, trusts it, and wants to wear it. The same person wears the same vest in Battleground. That person can buy it. They can be reimbursed by Battleground. You don't have the liability. The person chose to have it. They know what it's like. They know what it's been gone through. They prefer it. And so you are getting rid of a liability. You are preventing something from going to landfill.
 The person who had a custom age gets to have what that person wants to have, that the other police bureau wants. The only difference is be honest, it's the same person, and let that person buy it and be reimbursed by Battleground, and it's over. So I like to be transparent and honest when I don't catch something. I didn't catch that. Same person. And I wasn't briefed on that, and I'm not happy about it.
 And so I'm going to have conversations with the people who briefed me on this item. That being said, I still think it's the right thing to do. As a donation? The other things I said, as a donation, yes. I mean, if they want to buy it, great. But we cannot use that vest in the Portland Police Bureau for any other purpose. Let me ask you a question because, you know, I like you and I trust your judgment, and you've been here many times and we've talked about many things pertaining in particular to the environment.
 What if they said no? Should I throw it in the trash or should we send it their way? Because it's custom-made for someone and it cannot, you're saying, be used by someone else. And the person it's custom-made for is still the same size. Is it more pot-bellied or whatever? Well, yeah. I would...
 I would say that it can go with that person. But I wouldn't want the liability of it going to some strangers that it's not for. And while one vest is not that important, there's a lot of stuff about the Portland Police materials and other organizations that we have to really watch. We have to watch our money. We have to watch our liability. We have to watch the vested interests.
 no pun intended, interest in having resources transferred out? Who has a, who has? Amy, I think we've heard enough on this one. I'm sorry. No, you please continue. The list is closed on this one. Okay. Okay.
 So did I answer? You did. Thank you. And I want to thank you because this is the value of public testimony. You caught something that I did not catch, and I'm deeply appreciative. So thank you for that. You could just hold on to it. It doesn't – well, if it changes somebody's opinion we're about to find out, please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, we have two other items. Two more items. Where was I? I've already lost my page. 35, thank you. Pay claim of Eric Smith in the sum of $35,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Karen? You're up. Thank you very much. Good morning.
 My name is Karen Bond. I'm with the Liability Division of Risk Management, and I'm here to talk about the ordinance for Eric Smith. It was a motor vehicle versus pedestrian incident,
 It happened on April 23, 2016 at about 8.15 in the evening. Mr. Smith was a pedestrian crossing Northeast 82nd at Burnside. And a Portland police sergeant was driving a police vehicle east on Burnside intending to turn left onto 82nd.
 When the light turned green on 82nd for both of them, the crosswalk signal activated to walk. Mr. Smith began crossing Northeast 82nd within the crosswalk and the sergeant began waiting for oncoming traffic to clear
 before making his left turn. Once the traffic cleared, the sergeant began his left turn and struck Mr. Smith with the pit bumper of his police vehicle at a very low speed. Sergeant admitted to not seeing Mr. Smith, who was established in the crosswalk. The impact caused Mr. Smith to fall to the pavement. And risk management was able to reach a final settlement agreement with Mr. Smith's attorney.
 in the amount of $35,000, which is inclusive of all the medicals, all the liens, and all the attorney fees. Very good. Mr. Walsh, I believe you raised this one. You may come on up. Thanks, Karen. Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We very pulled this item because it was under, again, consent to gender. And...
 When we were reading the documentations, we came across a line that is bizarre. So we pulled it. And the line is on the second page, resulting from a pedestrian versus automobile vehicle collision. When we read that line, we just said, we have never met a pedestrian collision.
 that got into entanglement with a car and won. Never met one. The way that's written is you equate a pedestrian with a moving car. So we wondered, well, the car hit the pedestrian. Otherwise, you wouldn't be paying $35,000. Seems logical.
 Again, we are not questioning the settlement. We are questioning the protocols that you have and the language that you use. Why didn't you just say the car hit the guy or language clear? Guy was in a crosswalk, cop went to make a left turn or right turn, whatever it was, and hit the guy.
 Why don't you just say that? You hide it in words. This line, whoever wrote it, had to be drinking or smoking or something. Because it makes no sense. You don't have a human being against a car and they're equal when they come into a smash. That's the way that reads. And we objected to that.
 So that's why we pulled this. We don't object to the $35,000. We don't object to the $1,000 over for the insurance company and all of that stuff. And I would like to point out a lot of times we come and we are objecting to the protocol and not your staff doing their job. Okay? And you imply that. And that annoys me when you do that. We attack the protocols.
 Because the people that are watching this may have not seen city council in two years. And they're sitting there and they're trying to figure out what you're talking about. And we come here week after week after week as a frequent flyer. You're absolutely right. Because the people that are working can't do it. I'm retired. I can do it. To your annoyance, I can do it a lot. And we will. Thank you.
 Next item, I'm sorry, we have to call the roll on that. My apologies. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Mr. Walsh, please don't do that. That's very disrespectful. Please don't do that. We listen to you. You can listen to us in exchange. Please do not do that. Next item, item number 37.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation for the construction of Cooch Park Play Area Improvements and Loo Project. Commissioner Fritz, sorry. Thank you, Mayor. This is a competitive solicitation. In other words, we're going out to bid to see who wants to do this construction on the Cooch Park Playground.
 This is adjacent to the Metropolitan Learning Centre. It was one of the focuses and the reasons for the 2014 replacement Fix Our Parks bond measure. The fact that the previous structure had to be taken out as an emergency and we didn't have any funding for replacing it. And the community around Cooch Park, including the Metropolitan Learning Centre,
 community were very instrumental in both passing the bond measure and in designing the playground. It will be an all-inclusive playground. We've had a partnership with Harper's Playgrounds. Their foundation has raised $350,000 for the playground and also grant funding from Metro Neighbor in the Neighborhood Grant, which was $150,000. But the main funding for this is the parks replacement bond.
 The total cost is $1.4 million budgeted. All the trees will be preserved in the play space. The old public restroom will be decommissioned, used for storage space, and a brand-new Portland loo will be put in. We'll be starting construction in May and hope to be done by November of this year. Fantastic. Public testimony. There was a sign-up sheet. Joe Walsh pulled this. Again, for the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 In the documentation, we were disturbed because a past council person created the loo. And our understanding is, without discount, it costs about $100,000 to put those loos in place. So we were a little confused. You have a restroom in the park that you're going to close down or just let employees use it.
 That's what it says in the documents. I'm sorry, man. That's what it says. And then you're going to put this loo in the park someplace? And are we right that these things run like $100,000 without discounts? I know we know somebody, and maybe we'll get a discount, but these things are expensive. You know, if you give me $20,000, I'll build you a restroom.
 Why is it we have to do this one? These are the Cadillacs of peahouses. You know? We need a place that's private that somebody can go to the bathroom. We don't need a $100,000 castle. That's what they are. The ones up in the Pearl, they're like castles. When I went into one, I wanted to live there. Look how big they are. So please tell me you're not going to do that.
 That was our objection. We saw that and we said, okay, here we go again. Consent agenda, $1.7 million. Boom. No discussion. I know it's just formalizing everything. All the decisions have been made and we're just formalizing. We're not authorizing anything, right? We're authorizing something here. Or we're just formalizing what we've already done. Can someone answer that? I don't usually ask you to answer, but that would be cool.
 What are we doing here? Is this a real vote that we're actually going to do something or are we going to formulize it? We've already done it. That's what you told me last week four times. That's all. Four times I told you we'd formulize it. That's our objection. We don't like the loop. Take it out. Make an amendment. See if you can get a cheaper place. Do you know how many porta-potties we could put around this city for 100 grand? A lot. A lot.
 Any further comments? I'm going to fly away. Call the roll, sir. So in answer to your questions, Mr. Walsh, the current bathroom is non-functional and unsafe, as had been the sight of... Mr. Walsh, please, do not interrupt. Please. Don't wake me up. Do not interrupt. Let Commissioner Fish answer your questions. Or Fritz, either one. Or Fritz. Or Commissioner Fish.
 So thank you. Leave me out of this. Okay. So the current restroom is unsafe and unfunctional. It doesn't work. We require lots and lots of repairs and has been the site of a lot of nefarious activity in the park.
 The community has been involved in designing this park, very involved. So the community wants a loo. The loo is a safe way to provide needed restroom services that are accessible, that are safe, that are easy to clean, and that are considered much more functional than either porta-potties or the ancient thing that's there right now.
 We are currently asking for solicitations to see who would like to build this project and what they would suggest would be the price within the listing in the ordinance. And then I presume we'll come back to council to say who's going to do it, and then we will have a further report on what was done. And again, thank you to the Cooch Park. How much is the cost? Fish. Please do not interrupt. Sorry, I get distracted. I think I already answered that. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Well, as a former student of MLC in 1986, I would just like to note that those bathrooms were run down and creepy 30 years ago. I also was an employee at MLC in 1992, I believe, and I honestly don't remember the last time the bathrooms were opened or used by the public. Finally, I've been involved in the Cooch Park community,
 playground redevelopment conversation for 10 years now, I believe. And there has been a lengthy and arduous public process. And I'm so happy that we're going to be moving forward and especially that we're going to be adding one more fully accessible and inclusive playground to our park system. It's really wonderful. I vote aye. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 So I'm going to read from the ordinance. The construction cost estimate for this project is $1.172 million. That number is based on the estimates received from our cost estimator. PPNR's confidence level in the estimate is medium due to the high demand currently prevailing within commercial construction markets. This adjudicator,
 asks or authorizes the Parks Bureau to send out a competitive solicitation for the construction of the project. So we are not actually deciding to do anything today other than send out the competitive solicitation to complete the project that was offered during the bond that was authorized by the voters. So this is actually a really good thing. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned. Mayor, we have a time certain at 2.
 It's listed for 30 minutes. I think in light of the council interest in more expansive presentations, you can probably count on an hour this afternoon. Why, thank you, Commissioner. There you go. Hey, Bill. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council on January 10, 2018. Carla, please call the roll. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 This is a message I'm required to read at the beginning of every council session, so please bear with me. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope make everybody feel comfortable, welcomed, and respected.
 and to ensure the decorum is maintained for all of us. For this meeting, there is one opportunity for public testimony. We'll be taking public testimony after the staff report. You will have two minutes to speak, so please plan your remarks for two minutes.
 State your name for the record. We don't need people's addresses. If you're a lobbyist, you need to disclose which organization that you are lobbying for. If you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. When you have about 30 seconds left, you're going to see a yellow light go off on the panel there. When your time is up, there will be a red light, and you'll hear a beeper. We ask you to please...
 conclude your remarks when you get to the red light. Any conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting the testimony of other people is not allowed. Interrupting council deliberations is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there's a disruption, I'll issue a warning that any further disruption
 If any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. And if you fail to leave the meeting when you're asked to leave, you can be subjected to arrest for trespassing. If you want to show support, thumbs up. If you don't like it, thumbs down. Just don't shout. Expect that here at this table, everybody gets to testify. Everybody gets to express their opinion. Your opinions may not necessarily comport with what's being said, but let's all agree.
 be respectful of the process. So with that, please read the first item. Item 41, clarify stormwater billing methodology.
 Colleagues, before I turn this over to Commissioner Fish, I just want to make a procedural point here. As you can tell by the large number of people that are here, the large number of people that want to testify, this is a very important and a very complex subject. This is the first meeting on this subject. We're going to hear the staff presentation. We're going to take the testimony. Then we will make...
 what we can of all of that testimony and all the different perspectives. We are not rushing through this. It will not come back to the council until we're ready to have it come back to the council. So I just want people to understand there will be plenty of opportunity for thoughtful input on these policies. I also want to personally apologize. I have to leave at 2.45. Thank you.
 So I'm going to be leaving a little bit earlier, but I'll turn the gavel over to the council president at that time. And if you're testifying at that point, I apologize. Please don't take it personally. With that, Commissioner Fish, you're up. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. I have some brief talking points.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services manages the city's stormwater system and works with community members, businesses, and property owners to keep streets, public and private properties clear of stormwater. Stormwater runoff can cause erosion and flooding, damaging public and private property. It also carries dirt, oil, and other pollutants to rivers and streams. The Bureau of Environmental Services aims to develop rates that treat all customers fairly.
 In that spirit, we have Caitlin Lovell and Jonas Beery from the Bureau of Environmental Services and Eric Schaffner from the City Attorney's Office to present the Bureau's recommendation to amend city code clarifying and updating its stormwater billing methodology. Now here's the good news. Today's proposal does not affect the charges paid by a typical ratepayer.
 Let me say that again. Today's proposal, if accepted by the council, does not affect the charges of the typical rate payer. As the mayor said, today is a first reading. It will provide an opportunity for the Bureau to give an overview of the proposed ordinance. It will allow the public to be heard and council colleagues to ask questions. And then at some point in the future, this matter will come back to council for further discussion. I'm going to turn it over now to Jonas Beery, if you could please begin the presentation. Thank you.
 Great, thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Jonas Beery, I manage the Business Services Group for the Bureau of Environmental Services. As the Commissioner mentioned, here with me is Caitlin Lavelle, also from BES, and Eric Schaffner from the City Attorney's Office.
 Commissioner Fish asked us to start today with kind of a quick review of some basic building blocks for the conversation. So I'm going to start with a very quick BES, Bureau of Environmental Services 101. Caitlin's going to provide some basic information about stormwater. Eric's going to talk about the proposed code changes. And then I'll finish up with some financial considerations and community impacts.
 So to jump right in, a little quick background on BES and our billing, kind of the 30-second elevator pitch style. BES has two primary functions. Those are to provide sanitary sewer service and provide stormwater management, and we bill for both of those services. The billing methodology that we developed is consistent with national best practices, as it has been for many decades, and it aims to treat all ratepayers fairly.
 The BES portion of the utility bill includes two primary components, one that's addressed towards the sanitary sewer component. That's for the average single-family residential ratepayer. That's about 60% of that BES bill. And then the remaining approximately 40% is allocated towards stormwater.
 And I think with that, I'll hand to Caitlin to talk a little bit more about the stormwater component. Thank you, Jonas. Good afternoon. My name is Caitlin Lovell. I manage the Science Integration Division for the Bureau of Environmental Services. Commissioner Fish invited me to provide you with some of the reasons why we manage stormwater. At BES, we manage stormwater to protect public health and safety and the environment. Portland receives 37 inches of rain a year, which is the equivalent of 85 billion gallons of water. Okay.
 That is 128,700 Olympic-sized swimming pools. Development changes the amount of stormwater, the quality of the stormwater, and the location and manner in which it leaves a development site.
 We manage our system to address all of these things, and to do so, we rely on a continuous functioning network that includes pipes, swales, ditches, pumps, eco-roofs, and natural systems including wetlands, floodplains, and vegetation.
 Typical impacts from stormwater that we see are flooding, pollution from roads, parking lots, building materials, cars, manufacturing, and other land use, erosion, and impacts and threats to our existing infrastructure. All of these impacts affect public health, safety, property, and our rivers, streams, fish, and wildlife. Thank you.
 As a result of these impacts, we are subject to multiple state and federal regulations that obligate us to avoid, prevent, and remediate the impacts from stormwater. Today, we are proposing code updates to explain more clearly how the Bureau assesses charges to support the city's management of these impacts. Eric Schaffner from the City Attorney's Office is here to explain those changes. Good afternoon, Eric Schaffner, City Attorney's Office. The proposed code changes have two main goals.
 First, the changes would remove potentially ambiguous language from the definition of impervious area. The amount of a property's impervious area is the basis of the city's calculation of the stormwater management charges assessed to that property's owner. The current definition relies on a description of the impervious area's visible characteristics, such as the surface material or what's underneath it. The new definition would focus instead on the ability or inability of that area to absorb stormwater.
 That is the approach that has been used for years in the City's two main stormwater and sewer-related administrative rules, the Stormwater Management Manual and the Sewer and Drainage Facilities Design Manual. It is also, in fact, consistent with the intent behind the current code language, even if that language wasn't expressed as clearly as we would have liked. Surfaces such as asphalt and concrete are listed in the new language, however, so that neither the City nor property owners will necessarily have to calculate runoff coefficients anymore.
 but the city can take into account less impervious surfaces such as permeable pavers and porous concrete when assessing the charge. Second, the proposed code changes would clarify the purposes of and the differences between the on-site and off-site components of the city's stormwater management charge. The on-site component reimburses the city for capturing, conveying, treating, and disposing of stormwater that leaves a private property and flows into the city's system.
 It comprises 35% of the overall stormwater management charge and can be reduced or eliminated entirely if the property owner applies for a Clean River Rewards discount. The off-site component is assessed to cover the cost of managing stormwater that falls on public rights-of-way, such as streets and city-owned property. It represents the remaining 65% of the overall charge.
 No reduction of that component is possible because it is assumed that all rate payers benefit from having streets that are clear of water. The methodology behind those two components of the charge has been in place since the late 1970s. The calculation of stormwater management charges will not change as a result of the new language. Thank you. So, sorry, Commissioner. No, go ahead, Dan. Okay.
 No, I can wait a little. Okay. Okay. So just to wrap up a couple more minutes, I wanted to let you know why this is coming today. We know that this is a piece of code that we get questions about occasionally. Often those come in the form of phone calls from rate payers, and we're able to answer those questions online.
 that way. We also know there's been a handful in 2016 and 2017 of administrative review committee, uh, appeals related to stormwater methodology and charges. So, uh, motivating to come to council now to get that corrected. Uh,
 Just kind of a pause to anticipate a few questions that I expect may be out there, questions you may have about the proposed update. Is there a financial impact to the change? No, there's not an impact. As the Commissioner said, this doesn't change our billing methodology. It doesn't change the bill amounts for the typical ratepayer.
 What would the impact be if one property owner or subset of property owners doesn't pay stormwater charges? The impact of that is our cost to maintaining the stormwater system doesn't change. Those costs are spread out to the remaining ratepayers within the city. Who benefits from this change? All ratepayers benefit by updating the stormwater methodology to be clear and consistent.
 Last point I'll make is we did include a code fact sheet, create a code fact sheet including information about today's session. We posted that on BES's policy webpage in December. We also sent a direct courtesy email to a number of customers that we knew might have some interest in this code change. We've done our best to reach out to folks who may be interested.
 So understand, as was stated earlier, this is kind of a complicated and complex piece of code. So I wanted to sort of salt a discussion today. As the Mayor and Commissioner noted, we'll collect questions and then have an opportunity to follow up with any responses to your offices or to the public as needed. That's the end of the talk that we have, and I think at this point we'll open to questions or testimony. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Well, can you put this in context of Vigor Industries? I think they sued us, or maybe it was an administrative review they lost, but they sent a quite pointed email a couple weeks ago saying that this is an in-run around, I believe it was a court ruling. So has there been a court ruling on this matter?
 Just explain the Vigor Industries role here. Well, I haven't seen that particular communication, so I'm not sure what they're referring to. But I can tell you that they didn't lose the Administrative Review Committee hearing. They won it. Yeah, I think that's the point. They won it, and yet they were saying these code changes were sort of an end run around that.
 prevailing decision, I guess. Right. And I mentioned at the beginning that part of the impetus for this was to correct arguably ambiguous language in the code. My opinion is that the code was not sufficiently ambiguous to justify grounds
 Vigor winning that appeal, but nevertheless they won it, and so the city reimbursed them, I believe, $160,000. These co-changes will not affect that retroactively, but it will bring the calculations for all ratepayers, including Vigor, more in line with what was always intended and what has been the practice all along. And what was the point they won on?
 Well, the current code language has the word ground in it. Ground. In other words, it says that the code... I can just read it to you. The stormwater...
 question is whether the stormwater can percolate naturally into the ground. And the problem is that many of Vigor's usable paved surfaces are not over the ground, they're over the river. And as I explained, they could very well qualify if they fulfill the requirements for a discount for the on-site component of the charge. I think they are also asking for
 I don't know, remove or reduce the off-site component of the charge, which, as I mentioned, is not. You cannot reduce that, and that is because we're talking about managing stormwater throughout the city on the streets. So did the administrative review determine that the portion of Vigor Industries property that's over the river directly is eligible for an on-site stormwater? The administrative review committee essentially decided that the city could not bill them for that area because of the use of the word ground in the code definition.
 It was that narrow. So by changing this definition, we are unambiguously establishing our authority to assess the stormwater fee for that properties that...
 Connect directly to the river. That's right. Not into the ground. Exactly. Because if you're interested in some of the background, the stormwater off-site component of the charge is assessed based on impervious surface of the property itself because that's used as a surrogate for determining how much of a benefit that property receives from the city managing stormwater throughout the city. Does that make sense? Okay. Thank you.
 That's our presentation, Mayor. Very good. Any further questions to the panel before I open it up for public? I think we have one parent with a child that's asked to go first. Yes. We have a tradition here when we have lots of people signed up, people with young children, people with disabilities. Just let the clerk know, and we'll put you up to the front of the line. Happy to do that. If there's somebody here with a child, come on up.
 And then Carla after this. Next two? Yeah, please. The first two on the list are Ron Schmidt and Bob Sollinger, and they'll be followed by John Weigandt, Alan Sprott, and Diana Andreessen.
 Very good. Again, name for the record. Thank you, Mayor, Council. My name is Ted Labbe. I represent the Urban Green Spaces Institute. I also happen to be on the Portland Utility Commission, but I'm here today speaking as an individual and not as a representative of the pub. Thank you. So thank you for the opportunity to speak. I think that was a very excellent introduction to the issue before you today. This really is just a clarification.
 of the stormwater rate charges that we have. We're not changing anything. You know, we all, whether we, you know, 100% infiltrate our stormwater on our site or not, we all use our roads, our public infrastructure. We rely on trucks that deliver food and materials to our homes, to the stores that we shop at. So there's a reason for, there's a very reasonable and structured approach
 set of conditions around the rate structure that makes sense. And I was a little dismayed to hear that one party has kind of stirred the pot up and created a lot of confusion with folks around the legitimacy of these charges. So, you know, we're here to really strongly support the reason for that and that this is really, you know, to keep our rivers clean.
 This benefits a whole host of native species that the city has prioritized for conservation, clean water. We do not want to see these rate structures compromised to the point where it undermines the ability to manage the stormwater infrastructure and clean water. So...
 I just want to offer my support for this clarification. And for other members of the public who are here curious, this changes nothing. It's still possible for you to do changes on your land that, you know, reduce your stormwater rate charges. Nothing in the proposed changes will change any of that.
 So thank you for your time. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners Udalli, Fritz, Salsman, and Fish. Thank you for all your service. My name is Ron Schmidt, and I am a homeowner of Jansen Beach Moorage.
 I am, which is a crowdfunded mortgage. We're also renters from the DSL. If we were kicked out, there'd be no place for our homes to go to. I am a director of High Noon, the neighborhood association recognized by the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, the only representative democracy of your 96 neighborhood associations. And as you know from a few weeks ago, CNAC.
 Thank you for your reaffirmation and your applause of the volunteers of the city. I hope to continue to do that. Today, though, I speak as the president of the Waterfront Organizations of Oregon. Our membership includes marinas and floating home mortgages on the Willamette and Columbia Rivers within the city of Portland.
 We represent about 1,000 floating homeowners in Portland. We also represent tens of thousands of businesses, employees, and boaters who rely on the water for their livelihoods, their homes, and their respite. I'm here on behalf of our membership to request that the City Council vote no
 on the ordinance proposed by the Bureau of Environmental Services to change the definition of impervious surfaces in City Code. Our membership views this ordinance and the pretense that it is a clarification as a veiled attempt
 to permanently raise stormwater fees on a targeted group of ratepayers. On November 2015, ratepayers in Portland floating home mortgages saw their stormwater fees double, in some cases quadruple, without warning. The reason for that is the Bureau of Environmental Services broke their decades of policy, ignored the city code to assess stormwater fees on floating homes. Fortunately, this action was...
 won, challenged by vigor, and they did win by their own appeal committee. I see that I've got 13 seconds left. I've got two minutes more to talk about. I want you to realize that this is something that did not need to be forced upon us. It was forced upon us. Please, let's take time. Thank you very much. Commissioner Fish, you go ahead. Because Mr. Schmidt represents a larger class of people, I think he should have an extra minute or two because I think it's important. And
 Mr. Schmidt, the question that I want to drill down on, because we're making no decision today and we've invited the public to come in and give us feedback, is could you specifically tell us how this proposal would impact the rates of a particular houseboat that you have raised a concern about?
 I have spent the last four weeks working with your people of BES, also calling into your office. I am a volunteer. I have so many hours in a week, in a day, so many hours in an hour. I don't want to cut into your time, sir. Mayor, do I have to be interrupted? Without objection, please go.
 Thank you very much. I compliment every city worker, everyone that is either paid or volunteer, but I have dealt with a whole lot of people that make a whole lot more money than I do on this action. And it seems like every time that we're dealing with something, there was something thrown our direction and we had to grab it and run and that person was on holiday for the next week.
 This did not have to come up during the holidays. There is no emergency aspect to this at all. And frankly, I'm really tired that the citizens of Portland have to deal with this procedure. Mayor, can I reclaim my time for a second? We've extended the clock because, first of all, I have enormous respect for Mr. Schmidt.
 in the work he's done in High Noon and the work he's done on protecting open spaces out his way. This is a public hearing not to flag, to flog people for whatever perceived procedural errors. I agree. We're having a public hearing in which I, as the commissioner in charge, am asking you specifically, where do we get it wrong and how would this impact the rates paid by a homeowner? Okay.
 If you don't have a specific answer to that today, sir, then I would ask you to make a follow-up appointment or send me an email. But I can't get at the heart of your concern if I don't understand how it might impact a rate payer. I believe since we have these meetings going on, that written testimony can be sent to the mayor's office, to the city council. We will put together any information you want in terms of
 how much we've already been paying for our stormwater fees for our upland services. You're going to find out that most of the people behind me that represent the various marinas in the city of Portland have done everything possible as good citizens
 to make certain nothing environmentally is affected. Most of us are part of the Clean Water Marina Program already. What you don't realize is that there are unique things, and we are paying our fair share. I mean, we've got a whole lot of uplands. We've got over half a mile of parking that is...
 impervious surfaces, carports, we have sidewalks, a half a mile for 175 homes at my mortgage, that we're paying for that. Yeah, we do have a 35% credit for the onsite because we are good stewards of the land. We are paying our 65. This is essentially saying we want you to pay more than what the program has paid before. Just Mr. Schmidt, just to be utterly fair to you, because that's the purpose of this hearing. Thank you.
 When I got, I called you back five times, left five messages because I couldn't read. No, let me just finish. Five times I called you. Each time I said, because I have a lot of respect for you, Ron. You're on the right side of a lot of fights from my point of view. And you have a lot of credibility in this building. Thank you.
 And my question each time was, help me understand how this impacts a particular rate payer. Walk me through it. Now, we don't have to do that today because the mayor has made very clear we're not making a decision today. But what is helpful to me is to see a typical customer that you're speaking for, someone who maybe has a houseboat or something else. Show me how under this proposal they pay more and why you believe that's unfair. That's what I need to see.
 Because you've already heard testimony that under this clarification, the typical ratepayer will pay nothing more. Are you saying that this will not cause our houses to go up more from when you started taxing two years ago houseboat roofs that never had been in the system before? I am simply asking you on this proposal for you to show us how it would increase someone's rate. Just walk us through it.
 because you have every right to do so, but so far you have not submitted that. That's what I need to see in black and white. So you want to see from BES the satellite imagery that they first hit us with two years ago? We're not talking about two years ago, sir. We're talking about the impact of this clarification.
 I'll follow up with you after the hearing, but I want you to have every opportunity to demonstrate to us how there's a cost impact and what you think we should do if there is one to mitigate that impact. That's the purpose of this hearing, and I want to give you every opportunity to do so. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 Thank you. And if you have written testimony or if anybody else has written testimony, I strongly encourage that. I'll speak for myself. I love written testimony. And so if you have longer remarks on what you can fit into, regionally fit into public testimony, I'll be happy to answer that.
 I'm really interested in that. And if you give it to the clerk, it's even better because then she'll photocopy it and distribute it to all of us. Thank you. And we have one week until the next hearing to turn in that written testimony. Oh, no, no. I think we're going to keep the record open on this. We don't have a time circle on this. Mr. Schmidt, there is no reasonable request that you would make today that would be rebuffed by this council. As I've said repeatedly, our interest is having a hearing.
 getting feedback, and getting it right. Wonderful. If you feel that requires additional time to submit testimony, we'll make every accommodation to you, as we have every other time you've come to counsel on an issue of concern. Thank you very much, counsel. Thank you, sir. I appreciate you. Appreciate your being here very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm the Conservation Director for the Portland Audubon Society. This microphone seems to have a little bit of an echo. Push it a little bit farther away. There you go. Thank you.
 I'm here today to testify on behalf of Audubon. One of our primary goals is a healthy urban landscape, particularly our urban waterways. So we work on things like Superfund, river restoration, salmon recovery, protection of key natural areas like West Dayton Island. And in fact, we've worked with many of the people in this room here today, and they've fought on the side of the environment. We do support the proposal that is in front of you right now to clarify the stormwater code. Thank you.
 We do believe that these facilities should be part of that structure. As has already been noted, many...
 We all use the off-site stormwater amenities, our public roads, our public right-of-ways, and we all need to contribute to that. If we don't charge a certain segment of the community, that just increases the load on the rest of the community, or we underfund our system and we degrade our environment. As far as the on-site issues go...
 As has already been noted as well, when you create impervious surface, and that's what we are doing here when we talk about roofs and docks and things like that, you change the way the water enters the river and you change the pollutant load that is in that water. It has a degrading effect. Those structures also have direct effect on the ecology of the river. In terms of things like salmon recovery and habitat, when you're putting in docks and facilities with roofs on them, you're having a direct impact on the environment itself too. Okay.
 And so we believe it is appropriate to put stormwater fees on those sites and to charge them for that. We all need to pay our way in. And all these investments we're making in recovering the damage we've done in the past will be for naught if we don't take care of the problems we're creating today. That's what this does. It allows us to have the structure for on- and off-site impacts, and so we support it. One last thing I do want to put in the record, and I know I'm running out of time,
 is that the folks that started this whole discussion were Vigor Industrial, and Vigor Industrial has not been a good player when it comes to the river environment. In fact, they were fined last week by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality $12,128 for failing to do the required monitoring of stormwater on their site for 2016 and 2017.
 DEQ notes that failing to comply with the modern requirements is considered to be one of the most serious violations that they penalize for. So I think it's important to look at the actors that are really behind this and consider that as well. But we do encourage you to go forward. We encourage you to listen to everybody and hear the concerns. But ultimately, we need a decision that protects our environment. Thank you, sir. Next three, please. Our John Wygant, Alan Sprott, Diana Andreessen. Okay. Good afternoon, sir. Would you like to start?
 Yes, I'm John Wygant. I believe my written testimony is in front of you. I'll summarize it quickly. Part of it comes from the issue of what is stormwater. I look through...
 The search criteria in the Portland Code found 89 pages of references to stormwater and didn't find a definition. I confess I didn't go through all 89 pages. The Webster's Collegiate Dictionary does not define stormwater. Wikipedia has a pretty good definition of stormwater, and it says that stormwater is,
 has associated with it a runoff and drainage ways.
 Floating homes and docks have no runoff except what dribbles into the river from the roof. And if we're talking about rainwater, that's not really quite the same as stormwater. So I would claim that your whole definition of stormwater really doesn't apply to floating homes and their docks because there is no runoff, there are no drainage ways.
 The water just goes into the river as it would have if the floating homes hadn't been there. One of the changes in definition here is to permit these fees. I would suggest that there are some other definitions which I've listed, which would suggest that these fees should not apply to places like the Columbia River and the Willamette River and any area that's got free-flowing water. Okay.
 I pretty much covered the benefit to the cost. We do not have any stormwater that has any impact on the environment. Now, that of the roads and streets, and keeping those clear, I consider those to be urban services that are generally paid by taxes.
 And my time is up. So the rest of it's all here for you to read. Thank you. Thank you, sir. We appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Alan Sprott, and I'm Vice President of Environmental Affairs for Vigor Industrial. I'm here today to ask you to say no to the code changes before you. As individual utility rate payers, we have very little, if any, recourse in challenging BES assessments.
 As such, we rely heavily upon City Council to closely scrutinize BES's efforts to increase revenue, whether from rate increases or changing the code to secure new sources of revenue. In this case, BES's claim that this is a matter of clarifying a definition in the code is simply not true.
 An administrative review committee decision and decades of interpretation by prior BES officials provide perfect clarity that the definition of impervious area does not apply to overwater structures of any type, and this is what this ordinance is all about. The BES is mischaracterizing the purpose of this proposed ordinance. It is not intended to clarify stormwater billing definitions or billing methodology."
 Rather, it is an attempt to create a new source of revenue by imposing stormwater fees on a class of structures that have not been subject to the fee since adoption of the utility code in 1977. Overwater structures, which include docks, piers, and floating homes, have intentionally never been included in the stormwater rate structure imposed by BES.
 The BES is bringing this ordinance forward in response to losing an appeal to the Administrative Review Committee brought by my company after BES imposed a stormwater fee on overwater structures at our facility for the very first time. In November of 2015, in an attempt to grow revenue, BES abruptly began assessing stormwater fees on overwater structures.
 This new assessment was in response to the need to curtail excessive utility rate increases that had become the subject of much public opposition. Just a month later, in January of 2016, Commissioner Fish penned an op-ed in the Oregonian, lauding the utility bureaus for holding annual rate increases below 5%, showing the political motivation of BES's attempts to capture new revenue.
 What actually occurred was a partial shift in BES's revenue burn to certain ratepayers that drastically and immediately drove up their costs. For example, we would have been much better off with a rate increase of 10% since BES's new methodology of assessing overwater structures immediately added $70,000, or roughly 17%, to our annual stormwater bill.
 Even without this new assessment, our current annual stormwater charges are for over $400,000, even though we manage all of our own stormwater on site and are investing millions in stormwater collection and treatment technologies at our facility as part of the Superfund cleanup. Okay.
 In short, we are already paying for more than our fair share of stormwater management, and we are concerned with the apparent lack of transparency regarding how BES has gone about this revenue increase. Thank you. Mayor, can I just say, I have this sneaking feeling we're going to have a hearing that spends a lot of time with people making unfounded charges about the ethics of the Bureau.
 or about their view of the propriety of covering utility taxes and things like that. Can I just refocus us a little bit on the question before us? We have code language. We've been utterly transparent about the reason for this code language fix. We're asking people to give us guidance as to how to get it right. And I would say, Mr. Sprott, and I have a lot of respect for you, and we have a lot of history here,
 The Bureau of Environmental Services today, as you know, the rate that they charge is well below the rate of inflation. There aren't a lot of utilities that can say that. So to frame this as a money grab, I think, is unfortunate. We have seen year after year reductions in overall rate structure consistent with the pledge that I made five years ago when I took over the bureaus. The question before us today is whether this code proposal gets it right.
 And I appreciate that you've used the bulk of your time to malign the Bureau of Environmental Services, and that is your prerogative. But the question before us is, have we gotten this code fix right? And if you believe that it either results in an inequity or a cost that's not reasonable,
 we've overstated the environmental benefits or we were out of step with other utilities, I would welcome that testimony in writing from you, and we will give it full consideration before we come back to counsel. Yeah, and I want to second that. Let's try to do something different than Congress. Let's not infer what people's motivations are. Let's really stick to the policy. I appreciate the specifics of your testimony, and, again, I'd like to have a copy if I don't already have a copy of your written testimony. That would be very helpful to me. Yeah.
 You've got it. And with all due respect, we started this conversation with BES in 2015, and we spent over $50,000 in attorney fees trying to get it right. BES came in and assessed a fee on our facility that they in the past had explicitly excluded.
 They accidentally tried to do it in 2013, and we pointed it out to them. Fair enough. To answer your question about the definition, we do have... I'm not saying outside of this chamber you can't have that conversation. This is the only opportunity we've had to have this conversation. We've tried to do it your way, and we couldn't get through to people. You have called me? No, we have tried to...
 deal with BS at the Mr. Sprott, you've neither reached out to the mayor nor me on this. You've neither reached out to the mayor nor me on this. For the umpteenth time, and I don't want to become a broken record, every single person here today has the freedom to come and testify whatever they want. They want to use their two minutes making unfounded claims about the Bureau or the intention or motivations. You can do that. But the purpose of this hearing is to have specific guidance as to the proposed code change.
 If you have a better suggestion, if you have a better idea, if you have a concern about the way it's constructed. Well, we've talked this into the ground. The idea is let the current definition stand and don't change anything. We do have concerns with the proposed definition in A.
 It references the stormwater manual as having the definition of impervious area. There is no defined term for impervious area in the stormwater manual. And B, it gives far too much leeway to BES staff to make the determination of what is impervious area. And we just don't feel comfortable with that. Both are helpful. I will reach out to you, and I appreciate that. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Let me just ask you, Mr. Sprott. When did the Administrator Review Committee...
 Issue its decision? November of this year, October, November. Fairly recently. Yeah, so it just happened. Okay. And then this is happening. And your challenge started in 2015? Yes. Is that right? Yes, sir.
 Thank you. I just have one question. Would you care to address the issue raised by Audubon regarding the DEQ concern that you haven't been monitoring your stormwater? I'm sorry. Oh, well, Mr. Schallinger is mistaken. DEQ did issue a penalty for which they alleged that we didn't monitor our discharges. That's not true. There was no discharge to monitor. So we're appealing that to DEQ. Thank you.
 Thank you, both of you. Next three, please. Our Jan Zwirtz, Nikki Charlton, and Joy Hoffaker. And they'll be followed by Kathy Evanson, David Beavers, and Chris Rick. Thanks for coming in. Good afternoon. You're going to pass. Very good. Thank you.
 We do read follow-up emails. So if you want to put something in writing, we certainly read it. Yeah, and lots of people don't feel comfortable testifying, and that's okay. So if somebody's watching this on TV or if there's somebody here, always feel free to email, send a letter, call. We'll take testimony in multiple ways. Okay, Jory passed her time to...
 No, we don't unfortunately allow that under council rules. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for allowing me to speak here at the council. I'm Jan Swertz, a homeowner at Janssen Beach Morridge, a retired locomotive engineer, a volunteer at the Lambert Shore Trolley as our superintendent of operations, keeping six miles of city-owned right-of-way open for future transit use.
 But to get back to what we're talking about here, at my home, all water falling on our roofs naturally flows into the river. It appears to me that the council is attempting to change the laws of physics by stating a home floating on a river is an impervious surface. Specifically around the roof, yes, but everything that falls on the roof immediately goes into the river.
 Raising the costs of homeownership and renters, many who are on fixed incomes, will only make the problem of the ongoing homeless crisis worse, as many of these people are being directly impacted by this raise. We've had to raise our mortgage fees $25 per person per month. That's about $300 for each and every residence that the Chancellor meets mortgage that is paying an additional this year.
 So this, if we lose people, we will start losing people, and they will have to go someplace. Some will have to go to the street. There's that thin margin for people living on the river. Yes, there will be more people moving in, but they will be people who do not have the
 ongoing knowledge of the river, and therefore they will not be able to react properly when some kind of fuel spill or some other river accident happens. This has saved Portland countless times in the past, having a community on the river able to react quickly and swiftly to ongoing problems.
 So I do not wish to see our expenses go up each and every year because we have to pay an additional fee for stormwaters. We're already paying on our parking lots. I do not see why we should also be paying on our floating homes. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Nikki Charlton, and I'm the president of JVMI Jansen Beach.
 I'm also an attorney and a retired nurse, so I have a great interest in the safety of our moorage and its well-being. I wanted to address first, with no disrespect, that I don't think this is such a complicated issue. What we have is we're being taxed on rainwater that falls on our roof that goes directly into the river.
 I heard testimony that the stormwater fees are based on the sanitary sewer component and stormwater runoff for public health and environment. We have no environmental impact from the rainwater off our roofs. I'd like to point out whatever's on our roof is only dust that's in the air because we don't have trees growing over our floating homes. We don't have anything else that would accumulate on our floating home roofs.
 There's no public health impact to that. I also heard that the components that justify this runoff tax or fee is capturing, conveying, and disposing of this runoff water. And in fact, what happens in our floating home is it goes right where it would be disposed of naturally. I also want to point out that
 As Jan just testified, as president, I'm part of the board, and we evaluate the budget every year. We did raise the rights this year, and a great deal of it was because of stormwater issues. We have...
 A large parking lot, we pay for our structures, we pay for the parking lot and the structures, so we are actually being doubly taxed. If we had our home next to our parking lot or our garage, we would be paying one fee. But we aren't impacting the environment in any way, and I think that it would be reasonable to say this is not fair.
 A tax for us or a fee for us. Ms. Charlton, can I ask you a question? First of all, thank you for your very thoughtful testimony. And it would be useful, I think, to us if you gave us some breakdown following the hearing of the impact of this in terms of costs. You had another gentleman who testified recently about just general issue of affordability. That resonates with us.
 So any information you could give us that's not proprietary or confidential about how you're passing these charges on, I think would be very helpful to the council. That was already in my head to do, and I will get it to them. Well, you're a lawyer and a nurse. That's as good as it gets. That's why I took the notes. So if you could follow up with us. I appreciate it very much. Thank you for listening. Thank you. And before we'll call up the next three, I just want to put a philosophical argument out there, and maybe people can reflect on it at some point, maybe after the meeting.
 I'm starting to get to the nub of this issue, having listened to the first several people testify. And at some point subsequent to this hearing, I will definitely ask about the science related to runoff from roots into the river. But here's where the philosophical question comes in, and my suspicion is my ultimate decision may have to hinge on a philosophical question. I hate it when that happens.
 because reasonable people can disagree on philosophical questions. This sounds almost like a school funding argument that some people are making, which is, I don't have kids in school, so why am I paying for it?
 And if that is not this, if your argument is that we're not polluting the river through runoff, it's just rain going into the river, and that strikes me as a very reasonable argument, not knowing the science, which I will ask for later, then is the argument we should be exempted from this because our particular homes don't contribute to this problem?
 And if that is the case, is what Mr. Salinger said a moot point? The question that he raised is, don't we all benefit from this kind of a thing, and isn't it a good idea to spread the costs? So I don't have a right answer formulated in my head, but it's just a philosophical question that has occurred to me, and maybe people could provide some color commentary as they're thinking about it. Next three.
 are Kathy Evanson, David Beavers, and Chris Rich, and they'll be followed by C.W. Taylor, Scott Gardner, and John Johnson. Great to see you. Would you like to start, please? Yes, thank you so much. My name is Kathy Evanson, and I'm a resident of the West Hayden Island Morridge.
 And I wanted to start by asking in the audience here, if there are any civil engineers present, could you please raise your hand? Thank you.
 We have one. Anybody else? I think we have one up here. All right. So it does come down to science, and that is really what you're hearing, but you're hearing about it in layman's terms. Stormwater is affected by the amount of volume that hits the ground. Okay.
 the time that it takes to run off and hit a point of discharge, and the quality of that water. And those three items are the items that you control through your City of Portland storm water management plan. When we come to a river, whether you guys realize it or not, water is impervious. Water cannot accept more water.
 So anything that hits it, lands on top of it, it doesn't increase the amount of water. So it's already an impervious surface, the rivers that we live on, and we are the floating home community, if you will. So when we say to you we're not increasing our discharge, it's because the river itself is considered impervious.
 We are an impervious surface sitting over the top of an impervious surface. The water already runs there.
 The water and the time of concentration that it takes for that water to run off is not increased. The amount of dirt that hits or the water quality issue is not increased either. That dirt would have already fallen there and it already hit this river. So what we're saying is you don't provide us that service for that portion of our lands and those are our homes that fall over the river.
 Your management plan actually states the city's MS4 permit does not cover one, two, three, four, five, six items, two of which are of most concern. The natural stream systems, you don't manage those because they're already managed.
 It also does not cover direct stormwater discharge from private property to natural stream systems that don't enter your MSA.
 So in essence, the water that hits our homes does not collect into a system and go to your system for treatment to come back out. You are actually exempted those, and you have in the past. And that's probably what Vigor Industries was trying to say in a more technical way. We're just trying to say it nicely. We do contribute philosophically.
 We are a contributor in the way that we contribute for off-site impacts. We do use these roads. Mayor, I know we're about to lose you. Commissioner Fish, and my meeting got changed, so you've got me until 3.30 for better or worse. All right.
 So what I've tried to do is, in essence, show you, yes, there is a science and there is philosophical. We want to be contributors. We do pay that 65% off-site impacts. Thank you. And we pay for our area of land contribution.
 That does lie on the- Thank you. I'll let you go a little bit longer because you were responding directly to the question I asked and you did an excellent job. You wanted the numbers, right? Yes. I appreciated that. I will give you the numbers. I don't need it right now. Oh, okay. I wouldn't mind following. So the economic impact you did ask about, and I feel bad that we weren't all prepared for that ahead of time, but for our mortgage alone, it's $15,000 a year.
 We are 52 homes. $15,000 for 52 homes? That is correct. Okay, thank you. So you're not leaving, is that right?
 Not until 3.30. So I just want to just put a little plug in here. Yes, sir. That was helpful. Thank you. You bet. I deeply appreciate, just as a member of this body, that we've now shifted to having a high-level conversation about the issue before us. Yes, sir. And very thoughtful people are now getting up and posing questions, philosophical, technical, scientific. Yes, sir.
 I want to assure you that our CRAC team is keeping a list of all those questions. Yes, sir. So you've just raised a question off of our stormwater management plan, and you've referenced some regulatory requirements. Yes, sir. What we will try to do to the best of our ability is capture the questions that were raised during this hearing and post the answers before we come back together so that we give you the best opportunity to hear from the Bureau what their response is to the very thoughtful questions you're raising. Okay.
 Thank you. I really appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon, sir. Very good. Thank you, sir. So good afternoon, members of the council. My name is Christopher Rich. I'm an attorney with the law firm of Perkins Coie. Appreciate the opportunity to speak today.
 Good regulation generally needs to come from sound policy, clear criteria, and consistent application. While we need to be respectful, I think we also need to be accurate today. This issue is not coming up because of something that is new. In 2015, the city abruptly changed course and started attempting to charge for overwater structures that for 40 years had been deemed unlawful.
 off limits in terms of impervious surface. The city actually put this policy in writing and submitted that to Vigor Industrial in 2013, which is why when Vigor took this issue, my client, to the Administrative Review Committee, your committee unanimously held that the Bureau of Environmental Services had incorrectly overreached in its definition of impervious surface
 They told them that it was contrary to the code, and they directed them to refund two years of fees back to Vigor. So the city has actually been instructed as to what the current code says and what the definition means. In fairness, this ordinance is all about an attempt to undo the result of that hearing.
 Now in terms of the actual ordinance itself, to Commissioner Fish's question, there are unfortunately defects of policy criteria and legal that I think this body needs to understand because they must be addressed.
 Impervious surface serves as a proxy for stormwater that needs to be managed. This is how the entire stormwater code is written. This is how your manuals are written. What this does is that it basically takes an area, overwater structures, that has never had any services that the city has provided and attempts to charge a stormwater management fee. That's the argument that she was making. Absolutely.
 Yes, but it's embedded, more significantly, it's embedded in your code. In terms of how the code, the administrative rules, and the rate studies, what's the policy behind it? The city has already made this determination. And the reason that the ARC ruled that it was not just a definitional issue based on one term, it was inconsistent with the code. And that is going to be a problem if...
 The council moves forward under the current approach. Thank you, sir. Can you give Carla your testimony? Yes. Can you give Carla your written testimony? Yes, I'd be happy to do so. Thank you, sir. We appreciate your testimony. Yes, sir.
 Yes, my name is C.W. Taylor. I'm president of West Hayden Island Mortgage, and I respect your time, and I'm not going to repeat what you guys have been listening to. Kat is one of our spokesperson from our mortgage, and we have one other one. So with that, I think you guys get the big picture. And I did not increase our dues and fees for this year because I feel that this is an operation that you guys will understand, and we should win this case and do something about it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thanks, all three of you.
 Next three, please. Was there David Beavers? Thank you. The next three are John Johnson, Bob Turner, and Bob Hume, and they'll be followed by Jim Hilland, I believe it is, George Donnerberg, and Sam Galbreet. No, it's a police chief. That's a good question. We do have to change.
 I'm sorry. Would you like to start? Certainly, Mayor and Councillors. I'm John Johnson. I live at McAdam Bay, which is across from Oaks Park, and I have a 984-square-foot home, and I think it's going to cost me $300 a year to answer Commissioner Fish's question. I know that the city has to –
 has reasonable reasons for this approach they're taking. But I think the language they're using in this ordinance is kind of a bridge too far and awkward and doesn't make sense in the plain sense of the English language, redefining things such as impermeable. We know what permeable and impermeable are, but you can't just change the definition by defining it differently. You can't say this is a black wall.
 Just because I say it's a black wall, it's just not understood that way. Now, for water-based activities such as marinas, there is no linkage whatsoever between either permeability or impermeability. We're the most permeable place in Portland. It goes straight in the river. And because there's no real – the city is really not involved, the bottom line, and therefore this user fee is irrational. It's not rationally linked to something that we're using. Okay.
 There being no linkage to a user fee, this actually is a tax, and I'm sure there's a different way to get taxes passed. A completely separate point is that we have 1,000 homes, I think, on appeal. The current user fee structure, they want to get their money back. So you're talking about financial impact. We encourage the city to soberly look at what's happening here and refund the money to these people.
 when they reconsider this. Sir, can I ask you just one clarification? Yes, please. I'm all for sober policymaking, so I want to just ask you about, so we're very clear about where there may be a disagreement. Do you challenge the notion of an off-site fee? No. So we're just talking about the on-site fee. That's me. Others may, and there may be some rationality to that, but I haven't looked at that issue. I'm just asking for you. I have not looked at that issue. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you for your time. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Bob Turner. I'm a retired university professor. I live at McAdam Bay Marina with my wife, who is a retired physician. I am going to curtail the remarks that I had to make because some of the previous remarks have made me question.
 I do believe that, as you've heard before, the runoff from our houses is not going into any sort of stormwater pipes or facilities that are supplied by the city. It seems to me that in the absence of the use of any city facilities by that stormwater, that this is not a fee.
 It is a tax, and it is a tax that is being directed at a particular group of individuals. And I would point out that the estimates that I've received so far indicate that this is about $28 per month per each of the 1,000 floating homes in the Portland community. That amounts to about $330,000 a year.
 I would submit that this is an issue that needs to be looked at much more carefully and that it is not appropriate to be imposing this tax under the guise of a fee. Thank you very much for listening. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Afternoon. I'm Bob Hume, a longtime 50 years to be exact resident at the Oregon Yacht Club Morridge on the Willamette.
 As a floating homeowner, I'm going to appeal to a sense of fairness here. I urge the council to say no to the code change before you.
 My argument would be that we, as a mortgage, already pay for the upland impervious areas, the fees that are involved there. We shouldn't pay for a service that we don't use by including the footprint of our roofs, the actual floating part of our mortgage. It has increased each homeowner a fee of $26 a month. It doesn't sound like a lot initially, but you add that up.
 for a year and forever, and it makes a difference. Our floating moorage, I would argue, is not an impervious area. Very good. Thank you, all three of you. Next three, please. Jim Hillman, George Donnerberg, and Sam Galbraith, and they'll be followed by Ellen Wax, Susan, and Dan Carlson. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. My name's Jim Hillman. I'm a resident of West Haven Island Moorage, and I'm
 The important issue here, the authority to levy this user charge is conveyed by the Portland City Code, which says, quote, rate payers who receive a direct or indirect benefit from city stormwater management services are subject to the user charge, end quote. So fundamentally, if you receive a benefit, you pay the charge, end quote.
 That important concept is reinforced by another part of the code, which says a user charge means a charge paid by a tax rate payer for the use of stormwater management services. So clearly the authority to levy a user charge is based solely on the concept that you pay for a service only if you are a beneficiary of that service.
 All right. Now here's the problem. The proposed language change in the ordinance eliminates all links between parties who pay for the service and the parties who receive the benefit from the service.
 It does this by removing the language tying the user charge to the user's proportionate share of stormwater management services. That goes away, and instead it levies the charge on the amount of impervious surface on a taxpayer's property, regardless of whether runoff from that surface is subject to the city's stormwater management service.
 The result of this change is that taxpayers who receive no benefit from the stormwater management services are still subject to the user charge. This is a violation of the statutory authority granted to BES and would be an obvious breach of BES's authority to levy a user charge.
 I've got three other arguments. I just am out of time. I'm going to be unable to make them. Did you give Carly your testimony? I'll rewrite it and submit it for certain. We'll read it carefully, sir. Okay. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, thank you for your time. I'm George Donenberg. I developed and am a resident of McGuire Point Marina. It's the most easterly marina in the city of Portland.
 I'm here in that capacity. I also am a supervisor for the Multnomah County Drainage District. I'm not here in that capacity and not representing them, but I do understand the concept of citywide benefit. I also applaud the work of BES for what they're doing.
 I'm here to discuss equity and the way that the stormwater fee is being assessed. I think it's unfair to homeowners, floating homeowners, and as an example, if I owned a condominium downtown on a 40,000-square-foot block and it had 100 units on it, I'd be assessed based on 40,000-square-foot divided by 100 units.
 In my situation, I live and developed a 41 unit floating home arena. We have roughly 41,000 square feet of impervious paved surface which we pay a stormwater fee on. And now they're asking in addition to that fee, unlike the land based condominium, which you could stack as many units as you want, because we went sideways out in the river.
 You're asking us to pay a fee on the impervious surface and also for our floating homes, which are out in the river, and I feel that that's basically unfair. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Sam Galbraith. I'm a resident of McAdam Bay.
 I have been for 24 years. I'm the board. I'm the treasurer. I'm also a member of the River Community Advisory Committee of the Bureau of Development Services, and I'm on the Waterfront Owners of Oregon board. I just want to add a few more points. I hope it's not too redundant. One is that we all have appeals. All of the morriages have appeals pending before the ARC.
 And those appeals are from relief for the off-site surcharge that started in August of 2015, and they're based on Vigor's successful appeal, which you've heard about. If passed, this amendment places those appeals in question. We haven't had a clear answer from AHRQ or its staff as to whether our appeals are going to continue.
 We ask that the appeals be allowed to proceed on the interpretations applied to the bigger case and that whatever the resolution of the definition is, not have any cloud over possible retroactivity to our appeal. So that's a specific request that we allow those appeals to go ahead, get the same kind of relief the vigor got.
 Second item, until the summer of 2015, flowing structures were exempt, you've heard this, for the off-site sewer stormwater charges for good reason. Rainwater that falls on them never enters the city's stormwater system. The administrative changes without prior notification of affected parties was a means to increase fees while ignoring the quid pro quo requirement of the city code.
 We have always supported and shared support of the city's stormwater system through our off-site fees. It's the off-site fees that increase by this definition of impermeable unfairly to the houses over the water. If clarification is to be made...
 It should include an exemption for floating homes and their overwater infrastructure from stormwater fees. Thank you. Thank you, and perfect timing. All right. Thank you, gentlemen. Next three, please. Are Ellen Wax, Susan Carlson, and Don Carlson. Would you like to go ahead and start, please? Good afternoon. Ellen Wax with the Working Waterfront Coalition. Thank you.
 The coalition opposes this ordinance. The ordinance will codify a new category of structures subject to stormwater fees that target waterfront businesses in our working harbor.
 Many businesses already pay significant stormwater fees relative to their impact on the city's system since they occupy large tracts of improved property, which is the basis of fee assessment. This ordinance expands the basis for assessing stormwater fees to a new class of structures that have been excluded since adoption of the code decades ago.
 The current definition of impervious area used for billing purposes demonstrates there is a distinction between overwater and land-based improvements for purposes of collecting stormwater fees. The recent ARC decision confirms this distinction. It's also important to note that many, if not all, harbor businesses with waterfront infrastructure are making significant investments in stormwater improvements to accomplish source control associated with harbor cleanup
 and address the industrial stormwater permit. The money spent on these site-specific improvements provides more benefits to stormwater quality than fees paid to BES,
 If the overall objective is to improve water quality from stormwater runoff, then it is counterproductive to assess more fees on these businesses rather than allow them to use the money to invest in facility-specific priorities. We urge the City Council to reject the ordinance. Thank you. Ellen, can I ask you a question? Because you and I usually meet pretty regularly, and we've never actually had a – we haven't in recent times met on this –
 What was the change in 2013 that you object to? What did the council do in 2013 that triggered the vigor appeal that you feel was misguided? Can I get back to you on that question? Let me ask you a follow-up question. Okay. What was the change in 2015 that you object to? Well, it's just the adding – I guess more specifically, it's right now the adding of the overwater structure changes.
 So back to the definition of ground. Yeah, right. And was it your understanding that that change in how we measured the surface in 2015 had an impact on homeowners who happen to live in a floating home? Yes. And what's the basis of your belief in that? Yeah.
 I understand that vigor has hitched its wagon to this issue, but at some point we're going to have to separate fact from fiction in this hearing and get back to what we are proposing and what we're not. In what way do you understand the change in how we measure the surface in 2015 impacted homeowners, excuse me, houseboat owners? I don't think I can answer that question for you right now. Could you send me something in writing? Yes. I don't know.
 With all due respect, I think we're beginning to conflate and blur a number of issues. Vigor has a very specific issue. I'm not sure, with all due respect to my friends that are here from the houseboat community, that you actually have the same set of concerns, and I want to make sure that we're separating that out.
 and that we're not piggybacking off of one particular person's claims and that we're looking at them distinctly and separately because I think the equities are different in both cases in my own view. But I want to make sure we're being clear about impact on homeowners, impact on industrial users. Okay. And you can help us with that with just your follow-up written testimony. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. My name is Dan Carlson. I'm a disabled veteran. I serve on the Waterfront Organization of Oregon's board, and I'm a floating homeowner. I think to answer Nick's question with confidence,
 One thing is we had 40 years of not being included, and then in 15 they included us. I think it was illegal, and I think it was against the law, and I think that will be proven in further litigation going forward. As a disabled veteran on a fixed income, another $25 a month is...
 a burden. And $300 a year or $6,000 for the next 10 years, you know, it gets to be, it's in perpetuity also. So it just gets to be a real unfair tax, if you will, on people that are not receiving any benefit. Thank you. Thank you, sir. It's an honor to have you here. Thank you for your service.
 Next three, please. I show the last person signed up is Doug, and I believe the last name is Brown, maybe, on Bridgeton Road, I think it is. Doug? Did anybody else want to speak? Doug? Last call for anybody who would like to speak. Please come on up. Is that okay with you? Yeah. Do you have a timeline? My name is Doug Brown. I'm a homeowner on the...
 a floating home arena on Bridgeton Road. And this seems like a very simple issue to me. So the definition between impervious and pervious surfaces is what this comes down to. Like you've heard before, in 2015, all of a sudden, we started being charged for stormwater runoff treatment that we were not a beneficiary of.
 The stormwater that runs off the roofs of our floating homes is not treated by your stormwater system. And it just seems to me so patently obvious that there is no reason to be taxed on something for a service that we're not receiving. So that's really what this comes down to. All right. Thank you. That's what I have. We appreciate it. Thanks for being here. So at this point, we'll call staff back up.
 That's the end of testimony, right? Great. Staff, come on up. So, Mayor, can I begin by setting a framework for further discussion and see if it's acceptable to my colleagues? Yes, sir. So, first of all, I thought this was a very productive hearing, and I thought that a number of people raised significant questions of law, of regulation, of definition, of common sense, of tax versus fee, and of fairness. Okay.
 So my suggestion is we do the following, as we often do on matters like this, which involve a complex regulatory system where we want to bring the community along with us and make sure that people are clear about our decision-making.
 Number one, I propose that we continue this hearing, which would have the effect of having a second first reading on this matter, which means the next hearing would also be without a vote, but would be a chance to have feedback to the community from questions that are presented. So that's my first suggestion. My second suggestion is that we direct staff, and we have here staff from the Bureau and from the legal department, to do their best to compile a list of all the questions that were posed to counsel today and to make sure that they're answered.
 and within a reasonable time to post the questions and preliminary answers to those questions. On the BES website, I think they should be posted on my website, any other commissioner that chooses to post them, and we would make it accessible to anyone here in the public or who's here or is at home watching on Channel 30 so that you could get the questions and answers.
 And we'll make sure that the website has all the companion documents cross-referenced so you don't have to spend a lot of time looking for things. Number three, I propose that we come back, Mayor, at a time certain. And I would urge you to consider while we have Carla here that we see if we can pick a time.
 For the purpose of having a second first reading in which we would have a staff presentation, further testimony on any of the issues that are still not resolved to the satisfaction of anyone who's raised them. And by the way, as Commissioner Fritz will often say at these hearings, and I'll say on her behalf, we really do read the emails and testimony we get. And if for some reason we don't have the time, we have smarter people on our staff read them and brief us.
 So if you've taken the time to put something in writing, please don't feel you have to go home and polish it. Just in whatever form you're comfortable, send it to the council. You can send it to council clerk, and she'll distribute it. You can send it to any member of council, and they will distribute it. But we would like to have, to the extent possible, your written testimony and any follow-up testimony.
 Mayor, I think that it would be fair to have at least a two-week interval where people could put further testimony into the record and where staff could prepare a Q&A.
 and update our FAQ. And I would suggest that we find a time three or four weeks out, if that's acceptable and if that's reasonable, Jonas, where we come back for a time certain. And the only other thing that is hanging that I think, because Mr. Galbraith raised it, I think we should have a legal opinion on this. Mr. Galbraith said there's other appeals pending and he doesn't want to see us do anything that has a retroactive effect.
 Eric, my understanding is that we can only legislate prospectively and that whatever claims are in the pipeline, whatever issues have been raised, we can't retroactively impact those. Is that correct? That's correct. In any case, that's not the intent of this legislation.
 It's only prospective. So, Mr. Galbraith, I hope that answers your question, and we'd be happy to put that in writing because it's not our intent to undercut any remedies people have under a prior interpretation of the code. It is our intent to have a robust discussion about whether the code should be updated to reflect the modern realities. So, colleagues, I would offer that as a proposed road forward. So let me put a few more –
 A little more meat on those bones for discussion purposes. So if we kept the record open, the written record open for two more weeks, that would be until January 24th, Wednesday, end of the day, 5 p.m., January 24th. If you wanted to come back the week after that, that would be Wednesday, the 31st of January.
 And I don't recall that we have 2035 on the agenda that day. I believe we have that on the 18th is my recollection. Correct. For the 31st, I'm certain. Are you thinking more than about how much time? I think we should, just to be safe, because there's a lot of people who have an interest, I think we should carve out an hour to be safe. Then it would be 3 o'clock on the 31st. I think that works for me and the Bureau Mayor. It depends on whether it works for my colleagues. Colleagues, I know I'm around. Okay.
 It's a Wednesday, correct? Commissioner, are you daily? I'm checking my calendar. So just to be clear, Commissioner Fish, and it is your intent—
 You will take written testimony up to the 24th. You will take additional questions from counsel until the 24th. That gives the Bureau a week to compile responses for presentation on the 31st. Is it your intention that we also take testimony on the 31st? Yeah, I think we would treat it as a second first reading. So we would try to avoid, obviously, redundant testimony. But on the new matters that are raised, we'd want to have feedback from people regularly.
 in particular. There's a number of lawyers following this, so we're likely to get written submissions. And then if the council at that point feels comfortable moving forward, or at least is comfortable moving to a vote, then we could just put it over the next week in the ordinary course for a second reading. So I'm available until 445 on the 31st, and I also have a couple questions for staff. Mayor? That works for you, Commissioner. Commissioner Udali. All right. It's
 It seems to me that the argument that most of the people that came here to give testimony today are making is that changes in the last couple years and now these new changes in language and the code have compelled them to pay for services they're not receiving. So the first question is, if disconnecting from our stormwater treatment system is an option for
 People who own houses that are on actual land, why can't homeowners who are on the water avail themselves of that same program? Kate, let me take a shot at that. Sure. And also talk about the discount program.
 Commissioner Udalli, again, I'm Caitlin Lovell with the Bureau for the Science Division, and I'll rely on Jonas to help me here a little bit. But all of the single-family homes can qualify for what we call the Clean River Rewards Program, including the floating homes.
 So that is available to them, and I believe Jonas has some insight into the floating home communities in particular. Yeah, so with relation to Clean River Rewards, which is a program available to all rate payers who qualify, that refunds up to 100% of the on-site component.
 which is 35% of that stormwater bill, my understanding is that of the floating home communities, which are in our ratepayer record as multifamily residential, that of those multifamily residential rate accounts,
 All but two of them are currently participating in the Clean River Rewards Program. I believe the two that are not have not applied, and I don't know the detail behind that. We can get more information on that. So my understanding is that all floating home, multifamily, residential rate payers are currently receiving the Clean River Rewards discount for the on-site component. And how do people qualify for that program? Sure.
 There's an application program, a form online that's filled out, and then we have staff who review. There's a variety of qualification requirements, qualification options. For some, for example, it may be if you have an eco-roof. That's not the situation here, but different types of stormwater, either on-site management or characteristics are
 that allow eligibility for that program. And so we have staff who rate pay replies, we have staff who review that, and then the discount is applied to the bill.
 Okay. And then my second question is about industrial versus residential properties. I certainly understand how silly it may seem to floating homeowners that they're being charged for rainwater that's simply running off their roof and not into our system. However, with industrial properties,
 customers who have structures over the water, that may not be the case because they're using those structures for activities that may create or add pollutants to the environment. So are we able to distinguish between residential and industrial?
 If I understand the question correctly, you're asking related to Clean River Rewards, I mean as far as the on-site component that's generated. I mean, no, I'm talking in general in the code because it seems obvious to me that there is a difference in the environmental impact of water running off the roof of a home and water running off a dock or a pier that's being used for industrial purposes. I can probably help. Okay.
 I can answer some of that. Sorry, again, Eric Schaffner, City Attorney's Office. There is a difference in the way that the stormwater contamination there is viewed, and that's by using permit requirements and benchmarks and those kinds of things. The type of contamination running off of a residential roof generally doesn't rise anywhere near the kind of levels that we're talking about. So in general, residential homeowners, including floating homeowners, including my house,
 will not have to do anything special to treat the stormwater coming off the roof. They just have to keep it on the property, or in the case of the hospital owner, sending it into the river. In the case of an industrial discharger, as has been discussed with the case of Vigor this afternoon, if they're not meeting the state's benchmarks and the city's other permit requirements, they may not qualify for the discount, even if they are managing all the stormwater on site. Okay. I mean...
 This is a relatively new issue for me, so if I'm asking questions that don't make sense to you, I apologize. But it seems to me that the concern is, with the change in our language, that both residential and industrial users will be impacted when our real concern should be, I think, the industrial users. Because there is a legitimate environmental impact.
 Can I just say, colleague, that I thought they were fantastic questions. And one of the follow-ups I hope we do between now and the next hearing, since we have the benefit of the presidents of most of the floating home, if that's the proper term, associations, I would hope that you would get cards from the BES team here and make sure that to the extent there's a discount program, Clean River Rewards or anything else, which has –
 you've heard could offset 100% of the on-site cost of stormwater management. Let's make sure that you're aware of those programs, and then if you haven't applied for them, that we help you apply for them so that you can fully mitigate the cost. So I'm just in that. I guess I'm a little rusty on this stuff. It's been a while since I was the commissioner in charge of BES, but isn't the single largest component of the on-site discount disconnecting downspouts?
 If I recall. That's what I thought. I'm looking at staff. How do you do that on a houseboat? Or what does that mean to disconnect your downspout on a houseboat? Or floating home. Floating home. Sorry. So I can tell you, Commissioner, that having gone. It sinks. It sinks.
 I can tell you, Commissioner, having gone through myself the application, I live on dry land most of the time. The gutters in my house are connected to rain gardens. So there's no stormwater leaving from my roof area. In that respect, my house is not functionally different at all from a houseboat owner. The stormwater going down my driveway is captured by the city, and so I pay for that portion of it. So if you're a floating home and you manage the...
 the runoff from your roof, uh, through an onsite garden or something like a rain garden. Or, or as, and as, as I mentioned in, uh, my definition of the two, uh,
 components of the charge, the main criterion is that the city is not receiving your stormwater from your property. So the on-site component has to be somehow dealt with on the property in a way that the city doesn't have to deal with it. And maybe if I can answer the question another way is there are multiple qualifications for the Clean River Program. Downspout Disconnect is one of those components and probably one of the largest program-wide. There are other qualifying
 characteristics that also allow I mean it sounds like every single floating home owner would qualify for this program
 Subject to review of the circumstances, it's under the current program that seems to be quite likely, yes. And in fact, to my knowledge, any floating homeowner communities that have applied receive some level of that discount. Commissioner, one of the reasons why you heard me earlier say I'm trying to separate out the industrial users from the residential users, because I think there has been an unfortunate blending and converging of the two interests,
 And the fact is, I think with the discount programs and other programs, we might be able to address many of the financial concerns. As you've pointed out, for the industrial user, there's different issues that we have to be concerned about in a heavily regulated river. So, colleagues, I'm going to jump to the front of the line for one moment because I'm going to have to leave, and I'll turn the gavel over to Commissioner Fritz in a moment.
 Two questions that I'd like to have answered. The question was raised about authority fees versus taxation. I'd like to have more in-depth information.
 on that. Somebody raised the question of can you legally change the definition of impermeable? I found that to be an interesting question. I don't have a particular sense one way or the other on that, but I thought it was a valid question, and I'd be curious to know what the answer was.
 is with regard to that. And those are my two most pressing, and I'll get you more detailed follow-ups after that. I'm sorry, colleagues, that I have to run, but I have an engagement. I'll pass this over to Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz? We're just doing it this way for today. Oh, okay. I'll give you a turn. It was prearranged.
 Ordinarily, it would pass to the Council President, who's Commissioner Fish, but we made an arrangement since Commissioner Fish is sponsoring this and there were lots of disparate views that we'd pass it over to Commissioner Fritz. So there would be complete transparency. It can all be mad at me when I gavel it to him. Exactly. That's the main thing. Thank you for saying it's better. Thank you. Commissioner Sultzman, did you have a question or comment? Well, the Administrative Review Committee decision that was rendered in November, that applied only to VIGR?
 That's correct. So the floating home associations were not part of that? They were not in that appeal. Okay. So I guess, you know, the mayor mentioned a few minutes ago some philosophical concerns, and I guess one of the overriding philosophical concerns that I see is that you have a party that prevailed two months ago in a decision that's been challenged since its inception, and it seems, you know, it kind of gives resonance to all those –
 resonance to all those issues about, well, you can never beat government because government will just simply change the law, change the rules to ultimately prevail. And I can't help but feeling that's a little bit what's going on here. And I think that was maybe some of Mr. Sprott's frustration, obviously, as he expressed it. So I guess that's my philosophical concern that I'm entering this debate.
 next round of decision-making on is, you know, at what point, if you win, you win. You know, Commissioner Salson, I just note that the city frequently appeals decisions that we disagree with, and you've cast probably hundreds of votes appealing decisions of the courts and administrative agencies we disagree with. I'm less concerned about what an advisory body, the ARC,
 as a decision, but my philosophical approach to this is what's the right outcome? We have a code. We have administrative rules. We have regulatory requirements in the river. My interest is what's the right outcome? And I think people have raised a lot of questions today about,
 which we should ponder very carefully in striking the balance. But the city routinely updates its code when it turns out the code is no longer tailored to the current circumstances. And I think that's actually something we do regularly and without controversy. So, again, my touchstone is going to be what's the right outcome. Commissioner Fritz. Are you done with your questions? Okay, so I just have a few questions and comments.
 First of all, the title of this item is Clarify Stormwater Billing Methodology, which I would have to say for the general public would have to not think I'm going to rush down to City Hall and testify on that. That sounds fascinating. So thank you for digging into it, everybody who has, and recognizing that this is a significant issue.
 Secondly, for my parents in Lord Cherrywood Village and others who may be watching at home, they then would have realised that it is an issue about floating homes and riverside businesses. And so they may have been thinking, well, this doesn't affect me if I live in East Portland or South West or somewhere that's not connected to a houseboat.
 I think it would be very helpful at the next hearing if we had a presentation on the Clean River Rewards because you have to apply to get this discount on your stormwater fee. I don't think everybody knows about it. It's helpful to revise it and also for all of us to understand what goes into getting those discounts. I know I live in Deep Southwest where part of my discount is because I've got a lot of trees on my property. So not only does the rainwater not leave the...
 not get into the river. It stays on the property and goes back up into the atmosphere. So that's a different kind of water dynamic than what we're talking about here for the riverboats, the houseboats. So that, I think, would be very helpful so that we can make sure that everybody understands...
 It sounds like all of the house spoke communities are eligible for this 100% discount subject to certain conditions. And if that's the case, perhaps we have less of a disagreement than might have appeared. I heard a couple of people say that the 65% off-site fee that goes into the stormwater was something that should not be assigned to rate payers. So I think it would be helpful also to have a little...
 tutorial on how that is set and why it is set on rates rather than general fund. And secondly, the status of the mighty rivers, the Columbia and the Willamette, in terms of stormwater conveyance, how do they fit into our system? Do they get – excuse me. Again, in southwest, lots of the stormwater doesn't go into sewers. It goes into creeks.
 and part of the reason that we pay stormwater fees is to make sure that we manage erosion in those creeks, do some habitat repair, those kinds of things. What's the status of the Willamette and the Columbia when we're talking about the citywide stormwater system? Yeah.
 And I forgot what my third point is, which is really unfortunate. I thought it was a really good point. The first two were pretty good. I was really motoring there, wasn't I? I'm sure it will come back and I will ask it in the future. But I think those were the two main things. Oh, I know. I've actually written it down and circled it. So that's always handy. The definition, it was claimed that there's no definition of impervious surface in the stormwater manual. Right.
 I find that hard to believe, and if not, why not? Commissioner, I can address that quickly, and I very much appreciate Mr. Sprott's bringing that up because we did overlook the fact that the definition in the manual is actually impervious surface, not impervious area, so we will modify the code to make sure that word change is taken account of.
 Well, I would have to say when I ran for council in 2005 that my oldest son, who was a teenager at the time, said, Mum, don't talk about stormwater management or impervious service. Nobody cares. So I think we've come a long way in the last 12 years that lots of people care, as we should.
 So we'll have another discussion on the 31st at 3 o'clock. Please get your questions, concerns, comments in. I hope this has clarified a little bit what we're doing. Mr. Wagner, I can see you have a question, but I'll ask you afterwards, okay? Because we're done with the current testimony. Anything else? Commissioner Fish is the sponsor. No, only that I appreciate all the people who took the time to come out and testify. I was...
 little chagrin when I saw some stuff on social media that sort of impugned the process, and I've been doing this for nine years. We don't always get it right. We're not perfect. No one up here claims any special insight. But what I have learned on this council is that when we put an item on the agenda and we say we're going to
 honestly engage it, listen to the public, and try to get to the right outcome. More often than not, that's what my colleagues do. And I hope that you who are here today are reassured that we're working together to try to get this right. So I appreciate the testimony and the tenor of the testimony. And as the commissioner in charge of the bureau that brought this proposal forward, we'll make sure that we follow through on all the commitments that have been memorialized by the acting president and the mayor.
 Thank you, everybody, for coming. Oh, I just wanted to say if we could clarify for the record that this is a continuation of the hearing. Continuation of the hearing. Rather than a second first reading, just so it's right. Continuation of the hearing. Thank you. Technicality for those of us at 3 p.m. For those of you who found this interesting, tomorrow at 2 o'clock we have a five-year update on the Neighborhood Prosperity Network. So tune in again. Come on down. It's more good news. You can reserve your existing seats for a small fee. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Good question. Thank you.
 Thank you, Amanda.