here but i gotta get to work i thought we were gonna have steve but yeah okay maybe not good afternoon everyone and welcome to the january 28th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll here yes sure bossman novick hales here welcome we have a single item on the calendar this afternoon which is a report would you please read that item
 Item 97, transmit report to the City of Portland on Portland Police Bureau officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths by the Office of Independent Review. Auditor Caballero, are you going to lead off? And Constantine, good afternoon. Come on up.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, I'm City Auditor Mary Hall-Cavallero. I think we all agree that clarity is a welcome addition to any discussion of Portland's police accountability system. And today we have some by way of the latest comprehensive assessment by outside experts of officer-involved shootings. Our predecessors had the foresight to require through city code independent reviews of police bureau officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths.
 The Auditor's Independent Police Review does not investigate officer-involved shootings or in-custody deaths. The Citizens Review Committee does not hear appeals of such cases. Instead, Portland's oversight model relies on law enforcement experts with a national perspective, such as those who are here today, to assess these types of critical incidents.
 The first outside assessment occurred in 2003. Back then, there was a virtual absence of internal administrative reviews of these types of cases. Much progress has been made since then, but as you will learn today, much important work is left to do. And now I'd like to turn it over to Director Constantine Sevier of the Auditor's Independent Police Review, who has a few remarks, and then he'll introduce the principles from the OIR group.
 Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, it's my pleasure today to introduce Julie Ruhlin and Michael Janaka from the Office of Independent Review, OIR. Ms. Ruhlin is an attorney who, in private practice, specialized in criminal defense and civil rights in California. Ms. Ruhlin formerly worked with the Police Assessment Resource Center, PARC, which was the entity that did the first set of outside expert reviews as mandated by counsel, and
 Mike Giannacco is a former assistant United States attorney who serves as the chief of the civil rights section for the Central District of California. As director of the Independent Police Review, one of my most important duties is to fulfill the council mandate that there is a review of all closed officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths.
 Our OIR's fourth report on officer-involved shootings and custody deaths builds upon their earlier reports. This is the ninth outside report, including the previous PARCC reports and OIR's standalone report on the investigation into the death of James Chassie, which was completed in 2010. As a result of these outside reviews, there is now a criminal investigation completed by Portland Police Bureau's Detectives Division to determine the crime.
 criminal conduct of an involved member, as well as a separate administrative investigation conducted by Internal Affairs to determine whether there was any violation of policy, which was not always the case prior to outside review.
 The quality and depth of administrative investigations have improved dramatically in the last 15 years. All officer-involved shootings and custody deaths go to a police review board composed of PPB members, community members, and an IPR representative, which makes a recommendation to chief of police as well as the police commissioner. There is also a public report on every case heard by the police review board.
 I believe when the city has taken full advantage of these reports, it has given an early access to emerging best practices in the field of police oversight. But when we as a city have failed to implement common sense recommendations from these national experts, there has been a price to pay in diminished public trust and confidence in our system.
 Two notable examples of this has been, in particular, the 48-hour rule, which requires advance notice to an involved officer prior to a compelled administrative interview. An additional area of concern that OIR has noted in several of its prior reports is how long the internal review process has taken. An additional benefit of these reports has been that they have been a resource to our community.
 OIR's decision to include officer names as well as subject names has made the reports easier to read and much more transparent. The Police Bureau is to be commended to following and carrying through on over 100 recommendations made over the course of these reports.
 But the community itself has provided additional recommendations and built upon the work done both by PARCC and OIR. A few examples would be work done by the Citizen Review Committee and the Stakeholders Committee that was convened in 2010 to look at the oversight structure of the City of Portland.
 As a result of the OIR's report in the Chassy case, IPR was authorized by Council to act as a monitor in all officer-involved shootings and custody deaths. Since June 2011, IPR has responded to the scene of every officer-involved shooting and custody death, and the Police Bureau, to its credit, has facilitated that and has worked as partners in making sure that IPR has access to scenes and has access to evidence as needed.
 And with that, I would like to call OER to the front. Thank you. Okay. Thank you both. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, commissioners.
 My name is Mike Cold-Chanaco, and it's good to see you all again. We had the opportunity to visit with you, I believe, when we issued our third report, and some of you even before that. So this is, as Constantine has indicated, the fourth report with regard to officer-involved shooting review. We also did an initial report surrounding the death of Mr. Chassie. Thank you.
 The report contains 11 officer-involved shootings over approximately a year-and-a-half period of time, and it...
 dissects each shooting and looks at issues coming out of the shooting not for purposes of relitigating whether or not there should have been criminal charges or accountability but more to evaluate how the Portland Police Bureau itself did with regard to the investigation with regard to the review and whether or not the Portland Bureau Police Bureau took sufficient notice of
 of the shootings and issues coming out of the shootings sort of as a lesson learned. One of our philosophies, consistent with, I think, better practices throughout the country, is that critical incidents like officer-involved shootings or in-custody deaths present, unfortunately, a tragic situation in which a person is often injured and sometimes killed.
 and it is the exercise of the utmost power that we give our police officers, which is the ability and authority to use deadly force. So because of the impact that such an event has on individual members of the Portland community as well as the Portland community at large and the Bureau, we believe that it is incumbent upon the Bureau to –
 collect sufficient facts and evaluate the case so that its members are better, one, for accountability, but also to ensure that its members are better prepared on a forward-going basis to deal with tomorrow's challenges because, as we have seen, those challenges often repeat themselves, and if insufficient guidance, training, and
 supervision is not provided to police officers. Based on lessons learned from the past, it is doomed to repeat those unfortunate events in the future.
 What can we say about how the Bureau did? I think we also agree that if you look over the five-year arc in which we have reviewed the shootings coming out of the Bureau, we have seen significant improvement in all areas that we would issue a report card on.
 That is, we've seen significant improvement with the way in which investigations are conducted, and also a continued improvement arc in the way in which investigations are reviewed. In addition, with regard to the way in which the Bureau has responded to these incidents, it's clear that in some of the cases, at least,
 The guidance, the training, the lessons learned from past experience has become inculcated in the Bureau so that the Bureau had better tools, better responses on some of the more recent cases that we've looked at. Is all perfect? No. Did we expect it all to be perfect? Absolutely not, because every time you are presented with a new set of situations, you're going to have different circumstances. And while training is important,
 There's always going, because these kinds of tactical decision makings are perishable skills, it's important to continue to keep your attention to these issues on a continual basis. We have issued in the report a couple of other items.
 The last of the appendix sets out a chart of all of the 35 critical incidents that we have reviewed during our tenure and indicates some salient features with regard to each of those shootings. We thought, since this is the end of our contractual period,
 it would be important to set out in sort of historical chart-like way some of the – all of the events and some of the salient features to them as a reference piece for any members of the community and the Bureau itself who might be interested. We have also issued in this report 31 recommendations, and while it is not our intent to go over all 31 recommendations this afternoon, we –
 hope to highlight some of the recommendations that we think are most important to this body and to your public. We are also, of course, prepared to answer any questions that might be in you all's thoughts upon reviewing our report.
 and Stand Ready is a resource to do that. We are also, obviously, if public comment suggests or spurs other questions in your mind that you would like us to address, we are here to do that. You should also know that we spent all day yesterday as well interacting with your community. We had community meetings. We met with the Bureau with regard to not only the report but other issues on a sort of going forward where are we now basis report.
 And we continue to do that, and we find that those meetings are indispensable to our work, one, for purposes of transparency, but also because the dialogue we receive from your very well-informed community informs us with regard to the issues that are present in Portland. We are not Portlanders, and for that reason, we think it's imperative for us to continue to do that.
 So at this point, if you will, what I'd like to do is to turn it over to my colleague, Julie Ruhlin, who will talk to you probably about the predominant theme that comes out of these officer-involved shootings and the recommendation we make in response to it. Thank you, Michael. Thank you. Good afternoon, Julie. Good afternoon. Thank you. I'm Julie Ruhlin with the OIR group.
 One very striking thing about these 11 shootings that we review in this report is that in seven of them, there's some evidence that the subject had an intent to provoke the police officers into shooting him and some desire to end his own life. This dynamic is very commonly referred to as suicide by cop.
 And that is a term we find problematic. It ignores the reality that the responding officers to these situations have some ability to influence the outcome of these often very complex scenarios by employing good tactics that adhere to principles of officer safety.
 It instead leads people to conclude that the outcome of these shootings is somehow inevitable, that the death or the shooting was inevitable, that there was nothing that the police officers could have done to prevent a use of deadly force. And I think this in turn creates, and we have seen...
 repeatedly in the work that we've done, that it creates a tendency to be less rigorous in your analysis of the event. And we saw that in a couple of cases that we review here. In the shooting death of Brad Morgan, the training division review in that case really tackled this issue and acknowledged that there were things that officers maybe could have done differently that might have led to a different outcome.
 And then training used that acknowledgment to really drive forward some changes to the way that they train officers and some innovative ideas for how you do train officers to deal with crisis communication in these kinds of situations.
 But the commander's review in that case, and the commander's review is the, there's a findings memo that goes to the police review board. And in that case, the commander fell into this inevitability trap and wrote that there was nothing he felt officers could have done to prevent Mr. Morgan from forcing officers to take his life that night, right?
 And again, in the shooting death of Mr. Higginbotham, we found similar kinds of language in both the training review and the commander's review, and again, falling into this inevitability trap and this notion that Mr. Higginbotham's actions really drove the outcome, and without really acknowledging how the officer's lack of information gathering and tactical planning may have influenced the outcome in that case.
 At the same time, we saw other cases in this group of seven where officers did employ sound tactics and did follow principles of officer safety and nonetheless ended up shooting at or shooting the subject. So we don't mean to suggest that the Bureau of Defense should be shooting at the subject.
 Bureau's officers will always be able to control an outcome. I think that's an important caveat here. What we do want to emphasize is that the analysis, the analysis that Mike talked about in his opening remarks, is important in every case. It's very important to look not just at the moment that the officer pulled the trigger and the decision to shoot or not shoot, but
 but to really unwind these events and look at all of the decisions leading up to it, up to that moment of the shooting. So it's important always, but in particular, where it's evident that the subject wanted to precipitate violence,
 a response from officers in this encounter with a desire to end his life, I think it's really particularly important that the Bureau guard against compromising the rigor of its analysis and falling into this notion that there was nothing that could have been done to prevent the outcome. And really to change the language and the mentality around these findings.
 these scenarios to get rid of that notion that the outcome, that the shooting, the death was inevitable. And that's the recommendation that goes along with our discussion here. Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, I would just highlight two additional, or actually three additional points. One sort of related having to do with the investigation itself.
 And as Mr. Sevier, as Constantine indicated, there has been some concern over our review period of five-plus years about the timeliness of the investigations. It just seems to take too darn long to get the investigation and review process completed. And that creates a whole lot of issues. One, it leaves the officer and the community with this sort of,
 the mockley sword waiting for a final result and resolution of these cases for too long. And as you are likely aware, the Department of Justice in its settlement agreement pointed to the delay or the length of time in investigations as one of the issues that it is asking or requesting or actually, I guess, demanding that.
 that the Bureau address. And my understanding, and we can report that there is some optimism here, because when we looked at the last couple shootings in line here, we saw a much shorter investigative and review arc. So it looks like that the Bureau working with IPR is getting a handle on this issue, and we expect...
 that other shootings that occur will also have a more compressed time schedule that will be in line with investigative standards and the expectations of the U.S. Department of Justice.
 There continues to be one investigative issue that we're going to continue to hammer home as long as we're doing this work, and that is the unfortunate situation that prohibits the Bureau from obtaining a statement from its members the night of the incident. As a result of an agreement reached between its association, its officers' association,
 The Bureau is not allowed to receive any information or any account from its officers about what they did that night, why they decided to use deadly force, until at least two days after the event. And we find that that one, that condition in and of itself
 makes it difficult for us to say that the investigation is entirely comporting with best investigative standards. We understand that the agreement is up for renewal next year, and we are hopeful that this issue be revisited in the negotiations leading up to the new agreement with your association.
 Let me just clarify that. Yes. Not for a while. I thought the rule was that you couldn't be interviewed, but they don't even provide any documentation of what happened? There is no documentation. Officer-involved shootings, there is no requirement to provide a police report at all. Instead, it's an interview. And while the officers are asked to provide voluntary interviews the night of the incident, most recently over the past several years, they have declined that opportunity.
 and there's no ability to compel officers to provide information until at least 48 hours after the incident. Thanks for the clarification. Sure. The final issue that I'm going to address has to do with an issue that continues to be raised throughout the country, and that is the unfortunate situation in which officers are confronted with an individual who is armed with a knife.
 That has happened recently in the city of Chicago. It's happened in the city of San Francisco. And in both cases, it has created significant controversy in which an individual has ended up being shot and killed as a result of wielding a knife. That happened as well in one of the cases that was up for review this time, the Higginbotham case, where a man came out of an abandoned car wash with a knife.
 And when one of the involved officers in the Higginbotham case testified before the grand jury, he indicated that he had been trained about the 21-foot rule.
 The 21-foot rule was created in 1988 by an individual in the Midwest who decided that he would do some informal scientific study and made a determination that if you get close to an individual who's carrying a knife within 21 feet, that you are therefore too close and are in the kill zone and therefore must be wary of that individual.
 may need to use deadly force in response. While in fact the science is kind of important to know, and in fact it is true that action-reaction times do present challenges to officers, particularly with someone who's armed with an edged weapon, what we are concerned about is that the message or takeaway from that lore would be that if I am 21 feet or less away from an
 individual carrying a knife, my only option may be deadly force. When in fact that's not the case, and I don't even think that was the original intent of the training, but what we're worried about is that might be how it's interpreted by officers. So what we've asked in our recommendation is that the Bureau make sure that its officers have an understanding of the relationship between distance and reaction action time, but
 But really our thinking and our recommendation is the message should be that's why you don't get too close to an individual who is carrying an edged weapon or a knife. That's why you see cover tactically reposition and not present a situation where you are allowed the suspect to get that close to you and then feel threatened by his coming at you with a knife.
 We have two final issues that I'd like Julie just to address, and then obviously we're open for any additional questions you all may have.
 Yeah, so there are two issues that we have addressed repeatedly in our reports over the years, and I just want to touch on them here. One of them is the role of sergeants on the scene of a critical incident. Ideally, when you have a sergeant on scene, and ideally you do have a sergeant on scene, and I think it's good, unlike some of the agencies we've worked with,
 Portland often has sergeants. They're out in the field. They're not stuck in an office doing paperwork. They're out in the field. They're supervising. When they're on the scene of a critical incident, as it's unfolding, ideally the sergeant's role is to be a supervisor, to assert command over the scene, command over the situation, to direct resources, to ask for appropriate resources, and to delegate...
 assignments to the officers who are there. Training, this is consistent with what training teaches. It's how they teach sergeants in their sergeant's academy and in-service training for sergeants.
 But unfortunately, we don't always see it play out that way as these incidents unfold. In four of the cases that we reviewed, sergeants assigned themselves to take on a tactical responsibility instead of delegating that responsibility to officers. And in two of those, sergeants ended up using deadly force.
 In only one of those cases was this issue really flagged by the Bureau, and that was, again, in the case involving Brad Morgan. The training division review identified this issue and acknowledged that it was not ideal for the sergeant to have put himself into the position where he was one of those communicating with Mr. Morgan. Okay.
 The commander's memo, again, sort of minimized this issue. And likewise, in the other three cases that we saw that we reviewed here where this was an issue, both the training review and the commander's memos,
 just didn't really address this issue. And so, you know, you've got this training in place, but the second piece of that is accountability. And we found that in these four cases, that accountability piece wasn't followed through on. And that really minimizes the effectiveness of the training. It's impossible to say in any of those scenarios how a sergeant on scene asserting a strong supervisory presence
 how or whether that would have made a difference in the outcome. But the fact is, that is the ideal, and we just think that the Bureau needs to be paying greater attention to that in its review of cases and its accountability decisions. The second and final issue that we want to talk about that, again, we have addressed throughout our work here is the speed with which...
 subjects who are injured in an officer-involved shooting, the speed with which medical treatment arrives or that officers provide medical treatment to those people. And so, you know, the issue is somebody is shot, they're down, and there is still the possibility. Either we know, the officers know, or believe them to still be armed, and so they still present injuries.
 a risk, a danger, and so it may not be safe for officers to just walk right up on them. It's not safe for paramedics to come into the scene until the weapon has been secured, the subject has been secured.
 This is an area where we are optimistic and we can say that Bureau is moving definitely in the right direction. In 2010, following the death of Aaron Campbell, this was a major issue. The length of time that it took for medical care providers to get to Mr. Campbell and identify that he had been deceased.
 was just too long. And in its response to that, the Bureau equipped all of its sergeants' cars with ballistic shields. So the idea is that officers can have these shields, they can approach, they form a team and approach and secure the weapon, secure the subject, and the shield provides some measure of safety should the subject pick up the gun and start shooting. Okay.
 And so we saw in a number of the cases that we reviewed, of these 11 cases for this report, where officers and sergeants very quickly, they knew the shield was there, they got the shield together, they got a team, they approached, and they very quickly did get medical care to the injured subjects. And so I think that's a big positive. There were still two cases where there were some questions about
 the sergeants training and they weren't really comfortable with how to use the shields and how to the limitations of the shields and so that's an issue that i think the bureau needs knows it needs to address to make sure that all of its sergeants understand why those shields are in their car and what they're to be used for but you um since you've mentioned uh mr higginbotham and mr morgan and one involved a gun and one involved a knife could you explain just generally what's the
 difference in the weapon and how it impacts the protocol? For example, if someone has a knife and they've been shot and you've at least initially determined that it appears they only have a knife, how might you treat that instance differently than if the person, as with Mr. Morgan, he flashed a gun? Sure.
 You mean after the shooting and they're down? Yeah. Yeah, I think the gun obviously, I think, produced...
 it creates a greater sense of risk because the gun can harm you from a greater distance. And so if a knife is there, I still think, you know, if somebody's got a knife in their hand and they're down, what you often see in law enforcement training is a concern that they may be waiting for you to approach so that they could use the knife or the gun. But, of course, the distance is a different threat. And so if the knife...
 has fallen out of their hand, and you can see that I think officers can, with a much greater degree of confidence, feel like they can safely approach. Because it appears in both instances the officers were treated, waiting for some event in order to more safely approach.
 go and inspect the person who had been shot. But if an officer determines, if you're reasonably sure that the only thing you've identified as a knife and someone is down, it seems like common sense says there's a different risk factor. Yes. Agreed. In one of the cases, Mr. Hatch, one of the tragedies, Mr. Hatch, the responding officer,
 decided to use a canine to bite the person, how often does that happen? Honestly,
 I've not seen that before. That's not common. That's not a practice that we've seen commonly used by other agencies, and it's why we raised it and made a recommendation about that, that the Bureau really evaluate whether that's appropriate, especially in a scenario like that one where they had a ballistic shield available for,
 Was there any evidence in the record as to why this shield was not used? They did use the shield. Oh. And, in fact, the sergeants in that case were prepared to move forward with just the shield, and the canine officer was there, I think it was a canine sergeant, who suggested that they use the canine as an added measure, and they did. There's not a lot of analysis of that decision in the record, so it's not clear exactly, you know, why they...
 if they felt the shield was not sufficient. So it's definitely an area I think the Bureau needs to do some introspection on and possibly change the way it trains on the use of a canine following a shooting. Was that the only case of the use of a canine in the ones that you reviewed? You know...
 In this group, yes. In the Aaron Campbell case, there was a canine, though it was not used for quite the same purpose. There, the canine was released kind of simultaneous with the shooting. Right, I remember that. He still sort of got there and did his bite before, but it wasn't for this purpose. Thank you.
 The final piece, we're always trying to come up with common themes. And one common theme that I'm going to say now for the fifth time, because this is the fifth time we've had the privilege before to appear before this body and your community, has to do with the cooperation we get from IPR, from the Bureau, with regard to our abilities to do our work.
 Access issues are never issues in this city with regard to our relationship with the Bureau and never have been. And we get everything we ask for. And more importantly, we are able to go behind the documents by having access to the people who created them, by the people who know about training. And we have had a free ability to go where we want in order to come up with the recommendations that we've had. And for that, we're grateful. Thank you.
 The other thing that has happened repeatedly is in our after-report meetings with the Bureau, and as we are coming to the completion of each report, we have what we think is a constructive dialogue. You know, one of the things – I do this with a number of agencies, and one of the things that always makes me nervous –
 is when the chief of police responds by saying, it's a great report, we're already going to implement all of them immediately. That means that most likely that report is going to go on the shelf. So instead we get a really deeper dive than that, and we actually get some reflection. And some of the times, some of the responses from the Bureau causes us to reflect upon what we have recommended.
 So that is very helpful, I think, to the process here and one of the things we find commendable of your bureau. Okay. Other questions, issues to probe at this point in the process? Thank you both very much. Thank you. Thank you. I want to give Chief O'Day and his staff a chance to respond, and then we'll take testimony if anyone wants to speak about the report. I'll lose you there, George. I know. It's spinning on me. I can't hit a moving target.
 Thank you, Mayor. For the record, I'm Larry O'Day, Chief of Police. I'm joined by Commander George Burke of our Detective Division and Captain Brian Parman of our Training Division. I want to thank the Mayor, Commissioners, and the Auditor for the opportunity for us to respond to the fourth report by the OIR group regarding officer-involved shootings during the period of January 2011 to March 2013.
 As you all are aware, the Portland Police Bureau has made significant changes to its policies, procedures, accountability, and training over the last several years. Since the shootings referenced in this report, the Police Bureau has also made changes in the training we provide to Bureau members, particularly in regard to the use of force in our response to people in behavioral health crisis.
 This is ongoing as we continue to make additional enhancements as we work with the Department of Justice on action items in the settlement agreement, as well as developing and implementing 21st century best policing practices. However, there's always room for improvement when discussing our tactical responses, our daily force investigations, and our review processes. The Police Bureau is committed to continually evaluating, learning, and making changes that improve our organization.
 I'm pleased to report that the Police Bureau agrees with almost every recommendation in this report, and several of them are current practice. I've completed a response to each of these recommendations, forwarded that to the auditor today, and I'm sure she'll put it on her website. We'll put it out on our website as well. We greatly appreciate the recognition the OIR group provided to the Portland Police Bureau in regard to the Bureau's continued openness to critique recommendations
 to the significant strides we've made since the very first report, and to our high level of cooperation we have demonstrated during these four reports. I also want to thank the OIR group for their professionalism and their responsiveness. They have consistently made themselves available by phone and in person and are always open to robust discussions that lead to sound recommendations and improvement within the Police Bureau.
 The use of deadly force is the most critical decision an officer will ever make, and we need to understand the need for our community to understand and discover what occurred during these incidents. The events over the last year, from Ferguson to Baltimore to Chicago and cities across the country, has deepened the valley between law enforcement and the communities we serve. Building trust within our community remains a top priority, and we continue to engage our community in new and thoughtful ways.
 In closing, I want to recognize our police officers as well as our investigators and detectives whose work appears in these reports. Every week, our officers risk their safety, they save lives, and they protect and serve our community. Every week, our detectives and investigators work hard to seek the truth and build solid investigations. All of our Bureau members have responded incredibly to the tremendous amount of institutional change that we are undergoing.
 They have dedicated their lives to community service, and I'm privileged to work alongside them. Thank you. Thank you. Captain, Commander, anything else? Questions for the Chief and his team? Chief, there's been a little bit of, obviously, in your response to the recommendations and the testimony and the presentation we had, there's a lot of focus on the 48-hour rule. So a couple questions on that. In your extensive response, you note that,
 you have negotiated a change with the PPCOA. Can you talk about that for a moment? Yes, sir. Their contract was up for renegotiation, and so we put that in as one of our priorities to work through. At the close of that collective bargaining process, we were able to successfully remove that advance notification or so-called 48-hour rule of language during that process. Okay.
 So you've successfully removed it with the Portland Police Commanding Officers Association contract. Yes, sir. So because this is a complicated area, and I think your memo makes that abundantly clear, could you just briefly explain to us the difference between a criminal investigation and an administrative investigation and the different rights that attach to both?
 Absolutely. I really appreciate the opportunity to address that. You'll notice in my response, most of my responses are a couple of paragraphs, and that one is about more than two pages. It really is a complex topic. There is a lot of misinformation and misunderstanding about what that removal would do and what it wouldn't do. And that's why I have my investigations expert, Commander George Burke, here, and I'll have him start that explanation. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Councilmembers. Thanks for the opportunity. I really, in looking at this issue, it's challenging.
 really clear that we separate these two different tracks that the investigation takes. The criminal investigation really looks at organized statutes and how the actions of the officers fit within the criminal aspect of law. The administrative side really focuses on policy procedures. It gets into the training analysis and follows that track. The important difference is that in a criminal investigation, those members who are involved –
 have every right under the U.S. Constitution that any other member would have in the country. So we cannot and do not compel them to make a statement immediately. I would like to highlight, and I appreciate the fact that Mike Giannaco pointed out the fact that it's not a prohibition for us to ask for them to give us a statement, but rather it's an ask that detectives always ask at the time of the event to get a voluntary statement and a walkthrough from the involved member.
 So just to put a finer point on that, on the administrative side, you have more – according to your memo, you have more latitude and you have the incentive, if you will, for an officer to comply with an administrative investigation is that you can sanction that person. You can use discipline if they refuse to. In a criminal investigation –
 that officers have the same Fifth Amendment rights as citizens. I'm trying to follow what you said. And therefore, you can request, but you can't compel. So give us an example of what happens, in your view, if either –
 you know, within the first hour or after 48 hours, you are, you compel someone to give a statement in the context of a criminal investigation. What's the consequence? Okay, so another thing to keep in mind here is the criminal investigation, any death, so if there is a death as a result of the use of deadly force, which, I mean, that's not always the outcome, but in cases where it is, that investigation is really run by the district attorney. And under Oregon Revised Statutes, they have the authority to run all death investigations.
 We run the risk in conferring with the DA's offices along with the city attorney's office that if an officer were compelled to give a statement that the concept of transactional immunity would carry that message.
 that order to give a statement into any voluntary statement that we might get afterwards. So the thought that once we compel that we can then get a voluntary statement, there's a risk that that creates some level of immunity for the officer who used that level of force. So that's where the real complication comes in as far as dealing with a compelled statement and a voluntary statement. Okay, so just so that we're clear about calibrating community expectations, let's take the –
 PPCOA contract where you've successfully removed the 48-hour notice requirement. That means that in the context of a criminal investigation, you can request that someone give a statement, but you still have the constitutional questions, so you cannot compel. Is that correct? That's correct. So there is the possibility of an earlier and more contemporaneous voluntary statement,
 but you still don't have a tool to compel someone to give that statement in the context of the criminal investigation? That's correct. And the other part of that is really that, again, going back to the direction of the district attorney, the criminal investigation –
 We don't want to do anything that's going to cause us a problem with the criminal investigation, any admissibility as a result of any compelled statement that might come out of that. This is a really complex, and I think as you look at the response, the complexities really show through with working cooperatively with the district attorney for Multnomah County and getting agreement with the district attorney to allow us to go down that road, because, again, they control that piece of the investigation.
 I feel like this is like Groundhog Day because we've had this discussion repeatedly at Council. And frankly, I'm one of two lawyers on the Council, and I come away even more confused about the legal landscape. And if I'm confused, then I'm guessing the public is going to be confused. And the key here is whatever we do and whatever we change, we must be very clear with the public about what they can expect differently.
 Because if we say that if there's a lot of – if we make a big deal about some change like this, and then in practice it doesn't lead to changes in the way investigations occur, then, of course, we have a credibility problem. And I'm reminded – this is not a perfect example, but I'm reminded that when Oliver North was hauled before Congress and his lawyers said, don't do this,
 And Congress said, no, we have the right to do it. And they compelled him to answer questions before the United States Congress. And his lawyers said, well, there's something called the Fifth Amendment. You can't make him incriminate himself. He said, no, we are directing you under threat of contempt. So Oliver North answered all the questions that were thrown his way.
 ultimately his conviction was overturned because the appellate court said you can't compel someone to give up their Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. So it was good theater, but it didn't actually move the ball. And by the way, his lead lawyers in the case were the ACLU, not because they had any particular fondness, I suppose, for anything he had done in his official capacity, but they thought the Fifth Amendment applied to everybody. So this is the part that
 Just sooner rather than later, I hope we have more clarity about it because your memo has all the nuances. The public discussion is usually not as nuanced. It's let's remove the 48-hour rule and there's an inherent benefit to the process. Yes and no. Not if you can't compel someone to testify.
 And that is the question, whether or not you can compel someone to testify. And I'm hoping before we leave today I have a better understanding of that question. And, Commissioner Fish, to address what you're saying there, part of the issue has to do with what we can do with that information. Even if we were to go down the road of getting a compelled statement at the time of the event, a lot of that has to do with what information we can offer.
 ultimately share so the public expectation needs to be really clear as to what are we actually going to gain out of that because we have to make sure that that information that's compelled does not cross over into the other side of the investigation if it does that taints the criminal investigation and then it opens up all the other arguments that we've already talked about so
 One of the things that I think, and I think the Chief probably hit on pretty clearly, is we have worked really hard over the last several years to get as much information out in as much a timely way so that we can provide the community with the information that we have. I think the Bureau has come a long way in sharing information that we used to hold very close. Well, and I think later I may even ask our consultant, the consultants, to come back and just help me better understand, in light of Recommendation 41,
 How is the world different if we eliminate and follow their guidance? Because I still think I'm missing something. Recommendation 31, you mean? Recommendation 31. And I want to make sure I understand it, and more importantly that the public understands how this changes the way we do investigations. Back to your sort of facial question. I may be guilty of oversimplifying it, but I believe I understand this correctly. George can improve that maybe. Okay.
 As an employer, we can compel a statement, but it contaminates the criminal justice investigation. So that's the choice, I mean, as it's currently configured, right? May I ask some questions on this topic? We can compel testimony, but then what happens? It's no longer useful in a criminal investigation.
 May I have a turn? Please. Thank you. What level of your staff are members of the Commanding Officers Association? That would be all of our lieutenants. Lieutenants and on up, or just the lieutenants? Just lieutenants. And are the lieutenants ever present at incidents like this?
 Yeah, typically lieutenants are not generally involved in deadly force incidents, though they have been. Lieutenants are in charge of each of the shifts at the precinct. So there are uniformed lieutenants at the precincts who also are in uniform out on patrol at times. So there might be incidents where a lieutenant would be called to the scene if there's a standoff, for example, and...
 Would the lieutenant go to the site or would the — Oh, yeah. Supervisors and command will respond to a major instance. I thought you were looking at it as with the removal of that rule that impacts the lieutenants if they were involved in the use of deadly force. So if they're called to a scene and then subsequently there's a use of deadly force, how come the lieutenants could be forced to provide a report but nobody else would? Because —
 Because in the collective bargaining agreement. But why would that not jeopardize all of their Fifth Amendment and everything else? All we've done, again, like George, we've removed that language. That doesn't mean we're going to have to be very careful and in consultation with the district attorney on this particular case. Because at the end of the day, what we have to decide is what is more important, an immediate information that we can only use for employment purposes,
 or a uh a criminal investigation that if the officer is done wrong the district attorney has the ability to charge that officer so again kind of like the commissioner was talking about you know we've got that language removed but it's uh what does that really mean and what are we going to do when you look at at the particular cases and how many times has a poland police officer been the subject of a criminal investigation by the district attorney
 Well, they investigate every one of our shootings. And have they ever? Yeah. The most recent one was Officer Dane Reister. And he went to trial? No. The point is not whether it results in a conviction. It's at what point is your Fifth Amendment right attached. And your Fifth Amendment right attaches when you are potentially a suspect or you're reviewing your conduct and
 We don't assert our fifth amendment rights. Could I please continue to have a turn? Well, I'm just clarifying something because you raised an interesting point. I was in the middle of a line of thought. So if it doesn't often result in a trial and conviction, we don't usually legislate under this body to the lowest degree.
 To stop the absolute worst, we try to set some standards. It seems like there's a greater public good in having a system where most of the time we assume that the officer hasn't done the wrong thing and that we get that information in an expedient manner. Do all the other jurisdictions in Oregon have the 48-hour rule? I'm not sure what the other organizations are doing. Do we know what they have in Beaverton and in Gresham?
 Yeah, I don't know. But I think that's germane to this discussion. If it's okay in Beaverton and not okay in Portland, then that's something that we should look into. What legal basis do they have that – and I don't know whether they are either. I mean, the discussion you were starting to have, I think, is really right at the core of what we need to talk through because you're right. At this point, because they're the district attorney's investigations, but we are –
 prioritizing or preserving the ability that should the district attorney decide that they need to do a criminal prosecution, that that could successfully happen when the reality is the vast, vast, vast majority of these cases are not that. So discussing a system where we are prioritizing the internal employment process is a healthy conversation. But then the big caveat is, you know,
 the district attorney's ability to potentially prosecute. But that is exactly the conversation that this brings us to. Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate your willingness to have that. And it actually, nationwide, it doesn't seem like there are that many prosecutions. And then victims and their families turn to the civil process to try to get some justice. So I think we should bear that in mind. For other issues,
 incidents and arrests that officers are involved in, they get called to a domestic violence situation where somebody has assaulted somebody else and they make an arrest. Are they required to document that and turn in a police report by the end of their shift? Yes. So what's the exception on providing documentation to what happened...
 With the use of deadly force. Because, again, then this comes back to that concept that we've been instructed from the district attorney and the city attorney on that transactional immunity, that if we are compelling you to write this report, essentially make a statement, that because of the structure we use in an officer-involved shooting, it is a criminal investigation where the officer is not a suspect of something, but because he is being...
 interviewed and reviewed in a criminal process that has the ability to have the protection of the Fifth Amendment. I was a nurse, as you know.
 The rule in nursing is if it's not documented, it wasn't done, and you're required to write notes on what you did at the end of every shift. And if you've done something according to hospital policy, even if it results in a bad outcome, you have that immunity that you're not going to get prosecuted criminally because of the bad outcome. You followed the hospital policy. You may get sued for something else, but you followed the policy.
 So it seems to me that we could come up with a system of required reporting that would tend to help make better decisions, given that we know that it doesn't very often result in a criminal case being sent to the grand jury and then sent to trial.
 I think you're exactly right on, and that's the conversation. Is the community, is the district attorney, are all of you willing to look at a system that the vast majority of the time the –
 The need is not to protect the ability of a criminal prosecution. It is that immediate internal investigation, and that's core to this conversation. And for any other crime, we want to know what's been going on around. I mean, there may be other –
 people involved beyond the person who was the subject of deadly force and the police officers involved. There may be others that maybe it's part of a gang violence situation that we would want some accurate documentation of what all was going on there so we can go after the others who were involved in whatever mayhem may have been happening. I mean, how would that – supposing there's a –
 shoot out at the OK Corral or whatever, and there's just major stuff going backwards and forwards, would none of those officers be required to write reports until later? We require all witness officers. We immediately interview them that night at these scenes. So our challenge would be when you don't have a witness officer. Okay.
 But so in many of our incidents, there's other officers there that are not involved members in the use of deadly force. So we we interview them right away that night to start figuring out what happened.
 How many of the situations that are reported here are things that happened very quickly versus, like in an incident like the Mr. Hatch versus call to a scene, could back off, spend some time negotiating, and then move in? Do you have a sense of that?
 Well, the two that have occurred in here, well, I've been here, which are the two in the last two, February of 2013 and March of 2013. Both happened very quickly. Yes. Prior to that, some of each, right? Yes.
 possibly what we could do while we continue to work through this is to add to the protocol that an officer is assigned to the scene to be the observer and documenter in a situation that's developing, not part of the team that's managing the situation. Kind of like the sergeant's supposed to be, they're still part of it because they're managing it, but is there somebody else who could just give us that, give us the
 the facts you know not yeah so so it works out that way in practice and that is if it is a major incident that is potentially going to involve deadly force the bureau is dispatching enough officers to that scene that there have been some officer involved shooting since that aren't covered in this report where I've been present shortly after the incident and number of people on scene is
 significant if it goes on more than a few minutes because backup officers are arriving. And would all those officers be counted as part of the response and therefore not allowed to be asked for? No, they're all potential witness officers. What we call an involved member is somebody who either uses deadly force or if it's a supervisor directing the use of deadly force. Anybody else who is there, we look at them. Are they a witness member? Do they see, hear, observe anything?
 We interview and talk to them that night at the scene. And they're required to document what? Yeah, the detectives interview them and write a detailed report. Thank you. I was very impressed with your response, not only because it's well-written and very complete. I've been in multiple of these hearings where the response of previous chiefs has not been agree, agree, yes, we'll do that, yes, we'll – and I –
 appreciated the comment, well, if it's all, we're already doing that and it's going on a shelf, that's clearly not the intent here. The only one then that you disagreed with was the use of the canine in the case of Mr. Hatch. And I wanted to give you the opportunity to
 Tell me why the ballistic shield wasn't used in that case. Yeah, this was the only recommendation that we agreed. And you heard Mr. Giannaco on the front end talk about and you heard me mention robust discussions. I really appreciate the conversation we've been able to have with them around all of these.
 these different recommendations. And in this case, the Police Bureau has, we have come a long way since 2010 in our response and our philosophy in being able to rapidly approach somebody who we've used deadly force on and be able to get them treatment.
 And one of the many tools that we have that we believe in is the ability also to use a canine to be able to do that. In this particular incident, the decision was made to use the canine to move him away from the weapon.
 He had a weapon, and you heard Julie Ruin talk about there's a balance between a gun and a knife. A gun close by is a bigger threat to approaching officers, so the use of the dog was to move him away from that weapon, further away from that weapon. The ballistic shield was...
 If he had been capable of grabbing the weapon and it had been a gun, that's the purpose of the ballistic shield, right? It is to provide you some more protection. It does not cover all of you or all of the team that is approaching. It is just something that hopefully might save your life if you come under fire.
 It doesn't protect you completely. It's not a shield that protects the team of people coming up. It's just that very first person that is being approached, it partially helps cover them. So is the protocol that one person approaches to check on the subject? No, we train to go up as a team. So because one person is holding that shield, other people need to be able to cover that threat.
 So why was that not done in this case and it was done in all the other cases? Again, this is one of several tools. This one in particular, they made the decision at the time to separate this person further from the weapon. When a weapon is close by to you, it's pretty easy for somebody to pick that up and start shooting at you. And you can't rely on, this shield is just going to protect us all because it won't. It just increases your chances of survival.
 So I would appreciate it if an amended response, because the recommendation would, that you should evaluate whether it's appropriate to use a canine. I think what I'm hearing you say is that, yes, you are evaluating the cases of when it's appropriate. And I would be interested to know as to what the policy is to when you do and when you don't.
 Yeah, what we can do is provide you with what we train our members. So you can see here's that assessment, those officers and supervisors on scene. That assessment's pretty in-depth.
 Where is the weapon? What kind of weapon it is? We've got the ability to, is the weapon separated enough? We're comfortable just going up there rapidly. Can we approach on the side of a car? Can we use the shield? Do we need to use less lethal? Is a canine appropriate or at the far end of things? Worst case, it's a delayed CERT call out. So we really, in our training, we think that is a good tool in our tool bag to have.
 Can the canine pick up the weapon and take it away? Can it be trained to do that? No. I don't believe so. Thank you. Chief, that exchange was very helpful for me because I think I'm getting – I think I have a better understanding now. So can I just walk you through a few things just to make sure we have a baseline? So the first is the 48-hour rule, as it's written, does not apply to every investigation, correct? Correct.
 The 48-hour rule only applies to internal investigations. Right. And it says whenever delay in conducting the interview will not jeopardize the successful accomplishment of the investigation or when criminal culpability is not an issue, blah, blah, blah. So that's a qualification. So by definition, it doesn't apply to everything. Correct. Okay. If you were to successfully negotiate the removal of the so-called 48-hour rule, what you've done now is accelerated the process of having to tackle a couple of complicated questions because –
 under the 48-hour rule, there's potentially a 48-hour delay until you have to tackle these questions. Now you're at the scene, you're gathering information, you potentially can do some things sooner. And so let me make sure I understand what you view as the competing concerns. From the public's point of view, there's the view that
 and I think from the consultants, that interviewing someone as soon as possible ensures fresh, timely information and is helpful if for no other reason than
 then over time people's memory begins to fade and maybe reconstruct events in their head. And also, the information you get early can lead to other investigatory techniques. So things you learn within the 48 hours can help you chase other leads and do things. So I'm seeing a nod in the back. So I seem to recall that from an earlier presentation, that both the –
 the freshness of the information and the ability to use the information to do a more thorough investigation, the earlier in the process is better. So that's one issue. The second issue that is outlined in the memo that you and the mayor have put in is that there's a complicated constitutional set of questions. And if we compel someone to say something that ends up infringing on a Fifth Amendment right, and there is some kind of criminal investigation,
 We are potentially compromising that investigation. Yes, sir. Commissioner Fritz, I think, has astutely noted that this is the rare instance that there is an officer and followed by a bona fide criminal investigation. The problem with that is, and I'll just use a real-world example, when someone knocks on my door and says, hi, we're the police, we want to talk to you.
 I don't actually have to sort of sit there calculating whether it's likely to result in my being arrested and prosecuted or not. I have a right to say I don't want to talk to you. And we don't have to roll the roulette. We don't have to sort of roll the dice to figure out whether we think it may or may not. A lawyer can come in and close the door. And in the health care setting, since I used to represent the hospital workers of the greater New York area, the minute there's even a hint of some kind of criminal prosecution, a lawyer shows up and says we're not having further conversations because there's a Fifth Amendment right.
 There might be discipline that follows for that, but the Fifth Amendment right is inviolate because that is when someone is facing losing their liberty. And under our system, even someone who is ultimately going to be charged and convicted can't be forced to waive a Fifth Amendment right. Correct. So it's complicated. And I guess what I still don't fully understand is the question that Commissioner Fritz asked, which is...
 If we do away with the 48-hour rule and we're saying that we want you to have this option of getting more information earlier in the process, how do you balance these two things? And as she said, we're not the only city in America. So I would join with my colleague in just being interested in how do other cities slice it. And I'm guessing our consultants have some thoughts. But we're not making this – we're not –
 We're not making this up anew. There's a lot of history in other jurisdictions about how to slice it and how to narrow the risk that a compelled statement ultimately frustrates a prosecution. That seems, I see another nod in the back, so hopefully I'm on the right track.
 And that's what Amanda was getting at, and I agree. I'd like to know how you do slice that. One of the – because she had mentioned a couple of particular local departments, but one of the things that we know nationwide, there are many large departments that build their process around never getting an interview from the officer. Sure.
 And there's challenges to that. We have gotten to the point, like George was talking about, we get information out as quick as we can to be transparent on anything that won't compromise the investigation. Some of these other processes that are built around not getting information from an officer, investigations take a long time, may not ever get to a grand jury. So the crux of that challenge is going to be investigating
 And the district attorney is part of that conversation because it really is their investigation and the potential for compromising a potential criminal prosecution. And let me be clear. I applaud you for negotiating the 48-hour rule out of the PPCOA contract, and I think we have to develop a strategy in the contracts to follow.
 And I think I understand why now more clearly it's in the public interest to have that earlier opportunity to get the information. What I don't want to do though is set expectations about what's going to happen as a result and then have people frustrated that it doesn't lead to the kinds of increased transparency and accountability, which is the whole underlying point of this exercise.
 So I want to be absolutely clear about expectations. So thank you. Okay. Other questions for the chief or his staff? Anything else that you want to add? No, sir. Thank you very much for the opportunity to respond. Should we bring Michael and Julie back up? Because it looked like they did have some thoughts on that question, and then we'll take testimony after that. Welcome your reactions and thoughts to that. We don't have to play point-counterpoint here, but this is an important discussion. We will try to not make this a law school tutorial.
 The doctrine that the dialogue between you all and the Bureau had is accurate on its face. I would and I do understand the concern about what might happen or could happen potentially legally, potentially, if in fact a compelled statement is obtained from an officer.
 It is absolutely true that if in fact a compelled statement is obtained from an officer, that that statement could not be used for purposes of any criminal prosecution. That is the law. However, the concern about the risk that somehow the obtaining of that compelled statement could then jeopardize a criminal investigation in this context.
 has never happened in the history of mankind with regard to officer-involved shootings. Now, the North case that Commissioner Fish brought up is an important case because it is one of the few times in which compelling an individual did result in eventually undoing a subsequent prosecution.
 But North was really a case that stood on its own for a whole lot of reasons. And one of the biggest reasons, and the distinction I make between North and the Austin Ball shooting context, is that in North, when that compelled statement was taken, it was taken in front of everybody. Cameras were rolling. It wasn't taken in the secrecy of an interview room.
 unlike officer-involved shooting-compelled statements. Officer-involved shooting-compelled statements are taken in an interview room, they are walled, you know,
 In jurisdictions that do this, and there are a number of jurisdictions that do this, that information is then walled off and protected from any piece of the detective investigation so that when the detective investigation goes to the district attorney, that statement will never be presented to them, and therefore there's no risk of contaminating the district attorney's investigation with that compelled statement.
 The more I listen to you, the more sorry I am that we don't have the district attorney here to opine because you just made a very compelling statement. Are there gradations within what we're talking about? If there's no 48-hour rule and we're trying to balance all these concerns, are there certain kinds of investigations based on your perspective?
 survey of other departments, it's prudent to delay a little bit to ensure that we don't get it wrong? Or are you confident saying that in almost every instance, the benefits of an early intervention, a statement, and the investigation outweighs the risk?
 I'm confident that in the officer-involved shooting context, if the protocols are complied with and if there's no leakage of information to the district attorney or the detectives that are conducting the criminal investigation, if you do create robust processes to prevent that from happening, that you're not going to risk any eventual criminal prosecution. In fact, the criminal prosecution can go forward on its own, and in fact, in this case,
 in this city, in this county, by and large, eventually officers almost always, there have been a couple exceptions in the cases we've looked at, but almost always voluntarily provide a statement to the grand jury anyway. So the district attorney, in evaluating whether or not to file criminal charges, has almost always had a voluntary statement from bureau officers. Last question. Okay.
 Because it feels a little abstract, the way we're discussing this. Can you give us just a concrete example of something that you might learn within the 48 hours from an officer on the scene that then enhances the quality of the investigation? Absolutely. What it does is it provides you with an insight into the officer's state of mind
 right after he has used Deadly's horse. And if you don't get that information that night, you run the risk of, by the time you get that information, that information being influenced, contaminated by a whole host of other external influences. If there's a videotape of the incident, the officer may have an opportunity or may inadvertently see it. If there is discussion about the incident in the locker room when the officer goes to work the next day,
 that information may contaminate the person. The legal advisor to the officer will often have information that he or she is free to provide that officer during discussions prior to the obtaining of the statement. So there's a whole host of information that could impact what eventually the officer provides. And we've seen it throughout the country, you know. In South Carolina...
 What if instead of, this is a case in which the murder charge was filed, what if instead of getting a statement from the officer that night they had said go home for a couple of days and provide a statement, the statement that they got would have been well different once that officer had an opportunity to see the cell phone video of what had transpired and captured the event.
 That's the kind of dynamic that we would miss or we are missing, I think, potentially, every time you wait for more than two days to get a statement. That's helpful. Thank you very much. Other questions? Thank you very much. Okay, let's see if we have public testimony, please. We have five testifiers. Will Dan Handelman, Debbie Iona, Sarah Hobbs, please come up. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor. Good afternoon.
 We're setting up here. Would it be okay if I have five minutes to testify today? Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Okay, I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch, and Portland Cop Watch believes that many of the recommendations in the new OIR group report can make it better a police bureau. OIR does a very good job warning the bureau against using the term suicide by cop, which presupposes the outcome of a confrontation where the person intent on provoking the police to shoot them is for the police to accommodate that desire. We once again are disappointed –
 and the consultants for not focusing on issues of race. Specifically, four of the 11 cases involved people of color. We suggest the Bureau might think about adding a standard question in all shooting reviews. Did the suspect's race play a role in your decision to use deadly force? Not written in our eight-page analysis is our concern that OIR expresses support for the PPB's transparency. Police review board hearings and behavioral health unit advisory committee meetings, for example, are not open to the public.
 The chief's initial reply to the 31 recommendations, and we only just saw his full reply this morning or this afternoon, reflect a general lack of response to the community and the COAB about suggestions received on bureau policies. OIR says that other cities have less information from their police, and we feel sorry for those other cities. We do appreciate that OIR included good information, such as calling for the city to remove the 48-hour rule, and I can talk more about that, but there's not enough time.
 from the contract. What also needs to come out of that contract is the stuff prohibiting civilian investigation of deadly force and the binding arbitration clause for deadly force incidents. Telling the city not to sacrifice thoroughness for the sake of timeliness, that suggestion should apply to all misconduct complaints and appeals.
 They included cumulative totals of African-Americans and Latinos subjected to deadly force in the 35 cases they reviewed since 2010. It's 10 and 3, respectively, making 29% and 9% of all the victims. Adding a table of the 35 incidents showing data about cases involving mental health issues, which comes out to 57% of the suspects, and unarmed suspect, which was 26%.
 Despite the overall lack of analysis of race, they told the Bureau to take corrective action when officers say things such as, quote, shuck and jive to describe African-American suspects' behavior, which happened in one of the cases. We also noted a number of issues OIR highlighted or failed to note in individual cases. In summary, a commander wrote that Sergeant Fort's ill-advised shooting at Kevin Moffitt was done in the, quote, fog of war situation.
 A sergeant allowed two officers who shot at Joshua Baker to remain in the field because they were in, quote, combat mode. Nobody compared Officer Gregory Moore shooting at the back of African-American teenager Juwan Blackman to the Aaron Campbell incident, though OIR did point out there was no review of the canine, which bit the wrong person when released in that case.
 Neither Officer Jason Lyle nor Larry Wingfield was disciplined, even though they put themselves into a position that precipitated their shooting and killing homeless veteran Thomas Higginbotham. And furthermore, Lyle violated training by holding a taser and gun at the same time. Sergeant John Holbrook and Officer David Scott also precipitated the death of Brad Morgan by getting too close to him but were not disciplined.
 OIR says the city can protect itself better in lawsuits by examining repeat shooter officers like Sergeant Nathan Volder, who shot David Hughes in 2006 and Merle Hatch in 2013. Even though their table implies numerous officers were disciplined for using force, the only one for whom the discipline stuck was Officer Dane Reister, who was fired for permanently injuring William Monroe. The police review board removed a commander's recommended debriefing for Officer Justin Clary, who shot at Billy Wayne Sims in front of a populated convenience store in 2012.
 We also note that the auditor announced the report was done under city code, and she corrected herself this morning, that authorizes the IPR to hire experts, but it is actually required that these are annual reports, and they have not come out every year. You heard there's only been nine of them in 15 years. Since RIR is now at the end of its contract, the shootings from 2014 and 2015 should be under review already. The most recent case in this report is nearly three years old.
 We would also welcome if OIR could recommend such important issues, such as IPR should conduct its own investigations into deadly force cases, the DA should hold grand juries even when the suspect is not killed by police, which doesn't always happen, and to allow civilians to appeal the outcomes of deadly force cases to the Citizen Review Committee. And those appeals might have changed some of the poor outcomes that OIR noted in its report.
 Thank you. And I guess since I have 30 more seconds, I will say about the 48-hour rule and the compelling testimony, I think that Commissioner Fritz is quite right. I mean, when Chief O'Day said the most recent incident was Officer Reister, that's the only time they've ever indicted an officer for on-duty use of force in the history of Multnomah County. So...
 It's not, you know, the community has been saying for many years, if you compel the officer to testify and we can't prosecute him, if we lose one officer's ability to put them in jail and we can fire them, that's okay for now. We can look at it again after that happens. But, you know, let's get rid of an officer if they shot somebody in violation of the law and in violation of the policies. Thank you. Thanks very much. Debbie, would you like to be next? Sure. I'm Debbie Iona, representing the League of Women Voters of Portland.
 the periodic reports on police shootings and deaths in custody are an important element in portland's efforts to improve police bureau operations they not only provide guidance to the bureau but also inform the community about the details of specific cases what went well and where there is room for improvement after careful review of the report and participation in yesterday's community meeting with the oir group the league would like to offer the following comments
 In the future, allow more time for the public and city officials to review the report. One week is not sufficient to digest a report of this length and complexity and provide feedback.
 Training Division reviews of specific incidents and officer training are discussed throughout the report. We strongly recommend that the Bureau's Training Advisory Council receive a briefing on this report. There is much in it for the TAC to consider and address. Thank you.
 When drafting the next contract for the expert review of closed investigations, include a review of all the recommendations made to date by PARCC and OIR, whether they are being implemented, and to what extent. If the Bureau chose not to implement the expert's recommendation, it should provide an explanation. Okay.
 The auditor mentioned that the people involved in shootings cannot appeal their cases to the CRC, Citizen Review Committee. In our view, shootings are just part of a larger continuum of interactions between the police and the public, and we see no reason why people involved in shootings or their families cannot appeal their cases to the CRC.
 The report describes areas in which the Bureau has improved its operations and others where more training, better execution, and greater accountability are needed. The discussion of cases in which the subject had in one way or another expressed a desire to provoke a lethal response from the police.
 was particularly compelling. We hope the Bureau will train its officers to avoid looking upon the outcome in those cases as inevitable and use their training and tactical advantage to resolve the incident without resorting to deadly force.
 Furthermore, we have heard over and over again from the outside experts reviewing closed cases of shootings that the 48-hour delay in interviewing involved officers is bad policy. The League encourages the City to change this provision in the union contract.
 We would like to thank Auditor Caballero's office and the OIR group for this valuable report. It's a really great resource, I know, for the Bureau, but also for the members of the public who are involved in these issues. Thanks. Thank you.
 My name is Sarah Hobbs and I've come to really push for support of recommendation number 25. People who are suicidal or are in a treatmental health crisis and they're not thinking rationally, but because of prior history,
 where when I talk to people about rulings that are ruled suicide by cop, it's, Sarah, they pointed a gun at the police. What do you think was going to happen? Because the mentality seems to be when they provoke because they're suicidal but cannot carry through on their own, oh, yeah, we force an issue with the police, the police will do the ultimate act.
 for us. And that is an issue with me because it goes to address a long history of response in these issues.
 But I hope, and one of the things with language, culture, and mentality, that the police department comes to realize they're dealing with people who are not thinking rationally, and it's really going to fall on them to be the one making the rational decisions. And to look at how, when these situations are happening, they work to negotiate in a way that does not...
 I say give to the person what they're desiring. For the record, I do see where on the issue of crisis suicide calls, the police bureau has been putting into place a lot of the recommendations in this report. But it's still a lot of room for improvement. Thank you.
 So I do ask that you really look at Recommendation 25 and relate to all I came to say. I have a question about that and that.
 How long has the term suicide by cop been something that has been common parlance? I have lived now in Portland for 26 years, and it's been used ever since I lived here. Before then, I cannot address because I was not living in the state. So for 20 years? For 20 years.
 The 26 years that I've lived here, yes, I am aware of. Yes, ma'am. I really appreciate this being called out and then you reemphasizing it. I think in some ways it's been helpful to remind people that there are people experiencing mental illnesses who are the subject of tragedies involving the police, and I think it's a tragedy for the police officer as well as for the family and the person who's no longer with us. It's one of those terms I think that's now...
 outlived its usefulness and that we all need to be rethinking, reframing, and helping the wider community to understand why that's no longer a helpful phrase. What concerns me is when a person who is in an extreme suicidal crisis who cannot commit the act on their own, they automatically think, oh, no.
 I pull a knife, I pull a gun, point it at the cops, they're going to do it for me because the mentality based on history leads them to believe that. And that, for me, is a big concern. Thank you.
 We need to think of something like involuntary commitment by cop or some other term that better reflects that. There's many times, and this is the sad part, I appreciate this report and the responses. There are many incidents where our officers stop people from harming themselves and stop other incidents. I think the mayor mentioned there were four suicides prevented in one day. December 4th, yes. Yeah, so that's.
 That's also part of the community discussion that we need to have as to how our officers, some of whom came into the police 30 years ago and mental health care was not part of the job expectation that they signed up for. With the collapse of the mental health system, even though it wasn't all that great in the first place, it's a different job now and different.
 that many of them are embracing, that it's being the guardian of community peace and helping people out, as well as defending against bad stuff. I have said all along, since I've been working to have the issue of suicide by cop addressed, Portland police have made a lot of positive progress
 There's still a need, though, to continue pushing the positive forward when it comes to the issue of whatever role by suicide by cop. Thank you for your partnership. And Commissioner Fritz, I need to add that even though it's not part of the purview of OIR or the city council per se,
 It doesn't help when the medical examiner declares Mr. Johnson's death last November to be a suicide when the police actually shot him to death. So I'm hoping that's something the council will take this recommendation and move it forward to the state police and the medical examiner's office. That's an interesting thought of how would it be described in a more helpful way. Thank you. Dan, I have a question for you if I could. You note that we are required to have annual reports.
 And then you note that this is the last of the OIR group reports. And you say shootings from 2014 and 2015 should already be under review. So do you have a recommendation? No.
 Well, I'm hoping the auditor is going to answer that question. I don't know if the new contract has gone out. We didn't even know when this contract got extended. It was supposed to end a year ago. Yeah, but I think that OER has been doing a good job. There's other groups that are out there, and we'll see where things go. Whatever happens, whoever takes the contract up has to take a continuity perspective, like Debbie was saying, that we need to look at all the recommendations that have already been made and make sure they keep getting moved forward with any new ones that come in.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all and we have three more Nancy Newell Barbara Russ and Jared Hager Good afternoon. Thank you. Thank you for all your great consideration and work. I'm here today because I'm working with Coab Pardon me Thank you And I represent we've formed a Wilshire Park group because we've had murders in our community that have basically been put under arrest
 You know, it just kind of loses the story. And the history of me living in that neighborhood for that many years, when there's a drug raid and they get the wrong house, there's certain things that take place where there are weapons in our community that if you, I asked an officer, why are you here and what's the purpose? And I didn't get any kind of response. I mainly got shoved away. So I just stand as witness, but they had the wrong house.
 So there's certain things that have happened in my life experience living in Portland related to the police. And I've done my best as hopefully a de-escalator to switch some of those situations. And I think we really need more training within the police force. How much trauma...
 for the entire community when these horrible incidents happen, when someone opens fire on people, and the police really can't do anything about it because it happens so fast, there's no way of predicting it. And how much trauma does it have on their own practices within the community, especially having to deal with the mentally ill? As you pointed out, Commissioner Fritz, the problem has gone to the streets because we don't have the funds to take care of our own. So...
 We're handed quite a heavy responsibility to address issues that complicate each day because the problems aren't going away. The numbers of mentally ill, the stresses, and a recent case of racial issue. How come tasers are not regarded as a weapon of force? I mean, it was a young man whose heart rate was so high, they were hoping he would survive, they rushed him to the hospital. And he faced 20 years as a 16-year-old of jail.
 for just walking home from school. Luckily, there was a camera that caught the whole thing. So what within the process protects young people when they're just going about their daily lives and a situation happens and they don't have any other proof? And how carefully is that observed within the practices of the community? And how can we help police through trauma heal from trauma? I think there has to be a lot more healing
 applied to both citizens as well as police, and not just training, because the human nervous system, without realizing its condition, to trigger response since we have so many triggers in our society. You know, what this conversation reminds me of, Nancy, is I was teacher for a day or principal for a day at an elementary school in the Outer East where there's tremendous turnover in the student body.
 partly because it's in an area where there's unstable housing, and so people are moving a lot. And kids, 50% of the third-grade class didn't complete the year because of moving. The single common thread in terms of the concern that the principal had about learning
 was the kids who were coming to school traumatized. Traumatized because they were in areas where they were witnessing violence, or they had unstable families, or they were moving. And one thing we know about children is if you're not coming to school ready to learn, you can't learn. So how do we undo that so that there isn't the trauma just in the learning experience? Yeah.
 It's a related subject to what you're identifying. Yeah, one thing I experienced, too, I don't have a whole lot of time left. I'll try to fit it in quick. But the testimony that I witnessed during court on that particular case of this young African-American student, the officer I was observing, the sergeant who was in charge of the other officer that kicked him so hard on his spleen,
 The sergeant said, I would never do that. I know I could explode his spleen and possibly kill him. So why didn't the sergeant stop his officer? And he didn't even suggest that in court. And also he used a taser, and then the taser expert said various things about using a taser. You have to limit how you use it, and he's shaking his head in the court audience. So how do we address that and be able to find that within officers' minds?
 way of performing their jobs. That's a big thing to consider. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hi. My name is Barbara Ross, and I'm here testifying as an individual, not as a part of any organization. I
 I want to highlight a couple of things that Julie brought out in her testimony. I understand that you can't control everything, and so I want to just emphasize a couple of things that you as a police commissioner and the management can, in fact, have an impact on.
 There are just two things that I want to talk about. One is giving a high priority to officer safety by keeping a reasonable distance between themselves and potentially dangerous subjects.
 In the Hatch case, they acted wisely, and the officers and the sergeants who responded to the call, and this is quoting from the report, and the officers and the sergeants who responded to the call involving Mr. Hatch all recognized the appropriate goal was to contain and isolate Mr. Hatch with the hopes of stabilizing the situation.
 On the contrary, in the Higginbotham case, the officers did not concentrate on their own safety and, quote, neither recognized how to make a more informed decision about whether or how to approach the likely armed violent man in the confined space. They might not have allowed the officers to avoid being in the position where they were forced to use deadly force.
 In addition, in additional discussion of this case, they said, quote, as we have stated before, tactical decision-making that is consistent with the principles of officer safety provides smart techniques for detention and apprehension that provide the police the ability to more frequently influence how the encounter will end.
 particularly here when Mr. Higginbotham was found holed up in a room, not going anywhere, and did not present a threat to anyone else, time and resources were on the side of the officers. So I would urge that continued attention be given to Recommendation 1, which emphasized the Bureau's opportunity to influence the outcome of encounters with dangerous individuals.
 The other area where Bureau management can influence the outcome is making sure that the sergeant in command, looking at the whole situation, and delegates others to carry out tactical assignments. In four of the shootings, on-scene sergeants assigned themselves to tactical roles despite the presence of officers to whom they could have delegated these tasks.
 So since the training was that the sergeant should not be involved in tactical activity and should remain in control, that's something that's been overlooked in the reviews by the training review and by the commanders in control. So I think it's important that we continue as management of the Bureau to emphasize those two recommendations. And so I appreciate your attention. I appreciate the opportunity to testify. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Jared Hager. I'm an assistant United States attorney with the Department of Justice. We're currently involved in overseeing a settlement agreement with the city of Portland and the Portland Police Bureau. I just wanted to make a few comments on the issue of compelled statements, given the questions from the commissioners. And Mr. Mayor, I appreciate the time.
 As an overarching issue, I do want to commend the city and the Portland Police Bureau. We've seen incredible seriousness that they've taken with these issues, and I've seen incredible progress with respect to, just to name one, the Behavioral Health Unit and taking these issues seriously.
 To the point of compelled statements and the risk of immunity, we are in conversations with the district attorney and the city of Portland to try to come to a resolution and understanding of those issues. As you mentioned, Commissioner Fish, they are incredibly complicated, and there are various academic issues.
 at stake or at play where there isn't necessarily clear guidance. That being said, the Department of Justice has given advice and guidance to other cities in respect of other settlement agreements with police use of force issues. Our understanding is that certain reports
 are not considered compelled. And so I'd like to just add two issues for you to consider. First on the issue of whether something's compelled. The case law, as we understand it, says something's compelled only when you face the threat of a job loss, not necessarily just discipline. So there's a question of whether at what point are you actually compelling a response.
 A second and what I think more important exception to the risk of immunity is for routine reports. There are cases from all over the country, federal courts, where they have held that routine reporting that is part of a public employee's job duty, for example, a use of force report or a police report at the end of your shift, is not something that's subject to immunity. We're going to continue our discussions with the city
 and the district attorney, but I just wanted to bring those two issues, whether or not something's compelled and whether or not a routine report is subject to immunity to the council's attention. MR. It's amazing to have you here testifying.
 almost feels like a Woody Allen movie where all of a sudden someone offstage comes in who's representing the U.S. Attorney with a view on this and helping us. You know that scene in one of the Woody Allen movies where someone's talking about Marshall McLuhan and Marshall McLuhan then comes in and says, you know nothing of my work. What I gather from this conversation, sir, your testimony, is that we've got two issues before us. One is
 the city has the right to sit down and negotiate a change in the contract with our labor partner. So that's a separate issue, and that's guided by a set of rules and laws. The second issue, though, is if we eliminate the 48-hour rule, what is the best practice in order to get the information we need and not unduly compromise potential criminal investigations? Mr. Handelman earlier testified, I think he made a compelling point, that
 given that there are very rarely criminal charges brought against police officers, he'd rather, if he had to err on the side of one, he'd rather have earlier investigations to be able to develop evidence, which can be used in a disciplinary proceeding, to get to bring charges against police officers who violate policies and rules, even at the cost of the occasional person. But that's really the tension. And,
 I'm heartened that you're here because it seems to me, Mayor, we have an opportunity with the Justice Department assistance to come up with a model rule. To Commissioner Fritz's point, there's national, there's other jurisdictions to do this. Come up with a national, come up with a standard that we could then consider adopting based on what you think is the best practice and bring the District Attorney into that conversation because I think the best outcome is one that the Police Bureau, the DA, and the feds all think is...
 best practice. And then we can discuss that with the community. Yeah, and I don't want to, you know, I respect Mr. Handelman's view, and I don't think that would be the view of the U.S. Attorney's Office, that we would sacrifice a criminal prosecution to... No, I understand, but he was making, I think he was making it also for dramatic effect. Right. Since there isn't much of one and limited on the other, he was just stating a preference, but...
 Our view is that you don't jeopardize a criminal prosecution by doing something which is required by the settlement agreement as it stands now for the Portland Police Bureau to require a use of force report before the end of the shift because that's a routine report that officers currently fill out for any use of force except deadly force.
 And so the settlement agreement that we have with the city of Portland requires that use of force report to also be required for deadly force. What is – I forget, but what is your view about the impact of the settlement agreement on collective bargaining law? That's –
 higher than my pay scale. I'm not prepared to speak on that. I do believe it doesn't upset those rights. I know the Portland Police Association is at the table with the settlement agreement and
 something I'm not prepared to address. Thank you, sir. That's a use of force report. It's not an interview. It's a standard. I'm filling out my report at the end of the shift. Does the settlement agreement specify when that should be done by? Yeah, before the end of the shift. No, I mean when we have to change the policy to require that. You know, it's a...
 We're not going away until the settlement agreement is complied with. We'll either change the settlement agreement or the settlement agreement will be complied with. Yes, so some of the paragraphs in the settlement agreement say, specified by such and such state. That one doesn't? It doesn't have a timeline. And it does require us to consult with the district attorney, which we are consulting with, as well as the city of Portland. Because we understand there are complex issues. And the last thing we want to do is jeopardize a criminal prosecution. But at the same time, we do feel that the –
 the law is on the side of at least allowing some limited routine reporting and the analysis is pretty clear that public employees have a job to do. This is the distinction with Oliver North and a police officer is that police officers
 part of the daily job duties is to fill out a use of force report when force is used. And so you're not bringing them before some special proceeding and compelling them at the threat of losing their job to answer questions. You're just requiring them to do their job, and if they don't do their job, you can discipline them. And we think the case law is pretty clear on that, although, as I said, we're still in discussion. There are some unique aspects of Oregon law, and we're discussing those with the district attorney and the city attorneys. Thank you.
 So the city attorney and the district attorney and you are in those discussions. Yes. I'm really glad to hear that. Just to clarify, I don't know that there's a national standard that I would want to follow. I think that in many cases, our work with the Department of Justice here in Congenital and Settlement Agreement, we are setting the best practices. And so it's not like I think we should be following, you know, name the jurisdiction where something horrendous has happened and there wasn't...
 an outcome the community had confidence in, we should not be following their practices. I'd like to see how – but I would be interested to know what Beaverton, Medford, other jurisdictions in Oregon, because as you said, Oregon's laws are slightly different and we obviously have to be in compliance with them. Thank you very much. I think the benefit for me of knowing what a national standard is, if one exists, is that it disproves the negative.
 To the extent that we're told you can't do something and there's a parade of horribles, if routinely it is done differently elsewhere, then that gives us confidence we're going the right direction. We will obviously craft our own rule. But when do you think those negotiations will be through?
 Hard to say. What's holding them up? We have meetings scheduled for next month, the beginning of next month, and we're hoping to, you know, this is something that is a priority of the U.S. attorney to get resolved, and so we're trying to escalate a resolution. But is there something we can do, the city can do to accelerate them? I'm not sure. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Anyone else want to speak on this item? No.
 Any further questions for our Bureau or our consultants? I actually have a question for the auditor and Director Sevier. Would you come up, please? Yesterday evening, I attended a fundraiser for the National Crime Victims Law Institute, which is based out of Lewis and Clark, and it is a...
 Support service for the victims of crimes. And I learned that there is very little support for the victims of crimes. And, in fact, there's in some cases more support for the defendant in it. There is more support for a defendant in a criminal prosecution than there is for the victim. That the defendant gets a public defender and advice on every step of the way through the law system. The victim does not.
 And so I'm wondering, when somebody comes to IPR with a complaint, do we have any resources or do we refer them to any kind of support services to help either the bereaved family or the victim who survived and is now trying to pursue justice through your system? Is there anything that we do to support them?
 So when somebody files a complaint on 5PR, the only time where there is a, let's say somebody helped them shepherd through the process or advocate is at the appeal stage, where our office provides them with a former CRC, Citizen Review Committee member, as an appeal process advisor, and then also we refer them to the National Lawyers Guild if they want to avail themselves of that.
 So this was new information to me. I just assumed that there were people who would be helping. And similarly, I had previously assumed that there would be counselling and other support services for police officers who are involved in extremely distressing situations. I know that we have an employee assistance program. However, there isn't necessarily a formal way that officers are encouraged to use that or whether they do. And so I just wanted to put that out
 out there as something that we should be thinking about is how do we support people who are coming to you with a perceived injustice, with something horrible that happened to them? How are the places, like could we give them information about the Crime Victims Law Institute or the other services at Multnomah County or elsewhere that we could encourage them to seek the kind of
 counseling, legal assistance beyond the National Lawyers Guild? So we do refer community members to, you know, so let's say someone comes to our office and they present themselves with some sort of mental health issue in particular that we have a relationship with different community groups that will say, hey, here's a number that you might want to call. But
 the difficulty with that kind of thing. There isn't one place that you can call on, particularly with people who are in a position of crisis. They want simplicity. And unfortunately, as you know, in other kind of places,
 kind of realms. There isn't a very simple process for any of this where that, you know, if somebody comes to our office, they are either in some sort of crisis or they're very upset, giving them four or five different phone numbers that may or may not be of some use to them. Um,
 I don't know how much good we're doing. We do do that sometimes where it's just, you know, our office is set up under city code to help process community member complaints about police misconduct and also to get commendations. And so we don't want to be in a position of trying to diagnose or say, you know, you are, let's say, a victim of police misconduct because that's, you know, our system, we're the fact gatherers and we're supposed to be a neutral body. Right. I agree.
 I wasn't saying that I thought it was your job to do that, and I know you don't have staff to do that. Mayor, in your conversations with the county chair through the budget, it seems to me this is a big gap in our system that we don't provide services to victims and we don't help them work through a very traumatic experience that they've experienced, perhaps even to the same extent that we do.
 are required to provide public defenders and other structured support to those who may have committed a crime. I just wanted to raise that as an issue. It's my understanding in other jurisdictions where I've lived that there's a distinction between a crime victim and that there are programs that I believe reside or are associated with the district attorney's office. And so there's the obvious central issue
 function there that a crime victim will most likely end up interacting with them and they have some support systems and I believe those are state-funded programs and I do not know if Oregon has anything like that or not I just learned about this last night so it's something that I could contact the district attorney and ask what we have here in addition to talking to the county chair it's it seems like a missing piece from our system that we're trying to improve and I
 And I would say that for the complainants at IPR, they aren't necessarily crime victims as well as complainants. And so I think that maybe more attention has been given to the crime victim side than somebody who comes in with a complaint not being a victim. Yeah, I was thinking specifically in the use of deadly force or the use of force that – Oh, okay. I'm sorry. I didn't understand that. I'm sorry.
 Yeah, I wasn't thinking for a complaint about somebody using a swear word or something, but more the serious force issues. Thank you. Madam Auditor, can I follow up on a question that Dan raised, which is what are your plans to continue the reporting, and do you have the budgetary resources to do so? The contract with the OIR group ends at the end of this month.
 And it is our intention to open up the competition through the RFP process for the next round. And I believe in our current budget, we have the money to do that. And when we put our proposal in, we're cutting some of the money we have set aside for the contract, but not the contract amount. So...
 That is in our discussion. So you are proceeding with a new RFP? Yes, that's our intention. A new RFP. And just to be clear, do you have sufficient resources to fund that, or might you be seeking an additional appropriation? I believe we have the proper resources to fund the next RFP process. Thank you both. Thank you very much. Thank you. Further questions or discussion? And if not, a motion to accept the report? So moved. Second. Roll call, please. Thanks. I'm somewhat heartened that,
 Both chambers are not filled the way they have been on some of these previous reports. I do believe that we're making progress. I know that we all know that we need to make more and that we're by no means –
 where all of us want to be, which is zero use of deadly force and appropriate staffing and training and support for our police bureau. But I think we're making – I know we're making progress, and I know that many of the folks who testified today have also been engaged in the Community Oversight Advisory Board for the Department of Justice settlement. And again, I believe that they are making progress from what I've seen. So thank you, Chief O'Day and your entire team. I am –
 extremely encouraged by your acknowledgement of the recommendations and your willingness to work on them. As you said, I believe there is a changing culture in the police bureau, certainly not all the way, the same way that the rest of the city government and indeed the rest of society is not where we need to be when dealing on issues of race and people experiencing mental illness.
 It's heartening that we're making progress, though. Thank you. And thank you very much to our consultants for a very good report and all of the guidance that you've given us over the years. I hope you'll be applying for the RFP process. It'll be a fair and open process, as you would expect. Thank you. Yes. I agree with everything Commissioner Fritz just said. I want to thank the mayor. He has made this a priority in his administration. Thank you.
 And as Commissioner Fritz noted, we've had hearings here on this topic that have been filled, the room filled. And I, too, am heartened by the response of the Bureau to the recommendations and the fact that of the 31, you have agreed largely without condition to the vast majority of them, and there are two that still remain in dispute. Thank you.
 And I'm especially heartened to hear from our friends at the U.S. Attorney's Office that there is a collaborative process underway to resolve the issue of how, once the 48-hour rule is removed, and I say that advisedly, once the 48-hour rule is removed in the contract, how we're going to administer the new protocol. And I really appreciate the conversation today. I learned a lot. I think it was very thoughtful discussion.
 And I concur with Commissioner Fritz, we are clearly moving in the right direction. So thank you all very much. Thanks to our consultants. Bye.
 well it is my privilege to work with chief o'day and this team of command staff and officers who have been changing the culture and practices of the portland police bureau in very positive ways and this is one more sign of that progress so thank you commissioners i think i think it is uh it is right to praise the good and there's really good work underway here and i think it's also really important that we have this kind of objective
 nationally informed outside review of what we do because deadly force is the most dire and terrible interaction any government can ever have with one of the people that it serves and so we have to always take it seriously
 And part of the burden of being police commissioner is that when there are officer-involved shootings, the chief calls the commissioner in charge and you go to the scene. And so, therefore, in these regrettable moments, I've had a chance to see some of these procedures in action and also how assiduously seriously –
 the Bureau takes these cases. I mean, there is great care, great effort, no detail spared. Sometimes even at those scenes, I'm in a hurry for them to get on with it, and George Burke and his team are methodical about we're going to do it the right way every step of the way, and I appreciate that, and that's the way it should be.
 So I really appreciate this good work. Thank you to the OIR group for a clear and thoughtful review. Thank you, Chief O'Day, for a thoughtful response as well. And I really appreciate where we are today and where we are not. Thank you for great work. The fact that this is a thoughtful discussion among concerned citizens and not a moment for outrage is high praise. Well done. Aye. Aye.
 We are adjourned. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Good job, Chief.