Good morning, everyone. Good morning. We have one pre-GAVL item this morning. James Rudd, Dean of the Oregon Consular Corps, is here to announce the new appointment of the State of Oregon's newest Honorary Consul, Mr. Mark Williams, newly appointed Honorary Consul to the Republic of Moldova. Mr. Williams' appointment brings to 28 the number of sovereign nations now represented in Portland as part of the Oregon Consular Corps. Mr. Williams, will you take a few minutes to reflect? Sure.
 Well, thank you. I was going to ask Commissioner, Mr. Rudd, to say a few words on behalf of the Consular Corps if we could.
 Please. Thank you very much. Good morning to all of you. We're very pleased to have Mark Williams joining our counselor corps. As you know, we have two full-time counselors from Japan and Mexico, and then all the rest of us are honorary counselors serving the economic development opportunities in our home countries as well as serving the
 people of, I happen to be the Honorary Counsel for Romania, Mr. Williams, as we said, is the Honorary Counsel for Moldova. We have 25,000 Romanian Americans living in the Tri-County areas who are quite active in that, but all the Honorary Councils perform their counselor duties. I would also mention, as you probably are aware, during Oregon Trade Week in May,
 the Oregon Council Corps, along with the State of Oregon and Governor Kitzhaber, the City of Portland and Mayor Hales, as well as Bill Wyatt and the Port of Portland, put on a Celebrate Trade banquet at the Portland Art Museum, and that will be in May, and we'll have a capacity crowd, and we certainly hope that you all attend. I'm pleased to present Mark Williams, the newest member of our Oregon Council Corps, serving the Republic of Moldova, Mr. Williams.
 is a senior vice president for campus development at OHSU. That's his day job. His passion is serving the country and the Republic of Moldova. Mark? Thank you.
 Well, thank you, Commissioners. I just want to thank the city has been extremely supportive of getting this appointment, and also wanted to thank Hector Miramontes of your international department, who's been extremely helpful, and the Consular Corps also. I'm really looking forward to representing my new country. So thank you very much for your time. Thank you very much. I have a question. How does somebody become an honorary consul?
 The home country has to request through the Counselor Corps, and each of us are cleared through the United States State Department as well as the Foreign Ministry of the home country.
 And so typically we do outreach as well. We have a number of people that we think are suitable to join the counselor corps that have interests or are of that heritage of a home country. But we also need the cooperation of the home country to want to have a council member. So that's really the first step.
 The first barrier that we run into is convincing the council general or the ambassador in Washington, D.C., that Oregon needs to have representation. And typically that becomes part of the reason is, is there an indigenous population of that country in the city? Well, we have a lot of them, so I'm thinking that we could probably expand still further. Thank you very much. Absolutely. When we're trying to. What are the duties? Okay.
 MS. What does an honorary counsel do? MR. They really range. There are a number of our counsels, Germany, Great Britain, France, that actually process — have legal authority to process visas and passports. I do not.
 from Romania. I funnel that all down to Los Angeles for the council general to do those kind of duties. But as long as you have a council or an honorary council in an area, all eligible people that have passports can vote in their home country national elections.
 So that's one of the benefits for Romanian Americans living in Seattle all the way down through Portland is when there's a national election in Romania, if they have a valid passport, they are allowed to come and vote in Oregon. We had our last presidential election at Wilson High School. Wow. So thank you. And I assume that Hector and the Office of Government Relations can give anybody more information. Absolutely. We have a very strong and good working relationship with Hector and the city. Great. Thank you very much for coming in. But I had a quick question.
 What's an example of either a cultural or economic tie that we have with Romania that benefits both the state of Oregon and the great country? Well, right now it's more one way. It's Romanian Americans living in Portland and being very active in the community from an economic standpoint. I think the biggest drawback right now that I would have recommending a U.S. business consider Romania as the rule of law
 There's some real issues right now that they're going through as an Eastern Bloc country as they emerge into the European Union. But there are some American companies over in Bucharest primarily doing business. Terrific. Well, thank you. Thank you for joining us today. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. City Council is now in session. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Hales.
 All right. Before we move on to communications, I'd like to note that today those presenting communications will each be given one cinnamon roll in honor of the Decembrists. The Decembrists are releasing the new album, and they were here yesterday, and the mayor honored them, and they played several songs from the new album, but they also played their old standard Sons and Daughters, which includes the refrain, We'll Fill Our Mouths with Cinnamon. So,
 So in keeping with December's week, we're having cinnamon rolls for our five communications presenters. Carla, who do we have for communications? Item 77, request of Amber Dunks to address council regarding homeless bill of rights. Ms. Dunks. Thank you. Thank you.
 Before we begin, I'd like to remind people that we ask that there be no clapping, booing, hissing, profanity, insults, personal attacks, throwing objects, etc. in the context of communications.
 and remind people that the rules of conduct prohibit disruptive behavior, and attendees will be warned and then asked to leave the room in case of disruptive behavior, which I'm sure no one will engage in. And please state your name. You don't need to state your address. And you have three minutes. Thank you. And I was also wondering, there are three of us testifying on behalf of the HBR. Is it possible for all three of us to come up at the same time? Certainly. Okay.
 78, request of Tricia Reed to address counsel regarding homeless Bill of Rights. And 79, request of Jermaine Johnson to address counsel regarding homeless Bill of Rights. Ms. Dunks.
 My name is Amber Dunks. I'm here on behalf of Right to Survive and the Homeless Bill of Rights campaign. We're here to ask for your support for our Right to Rest bill, which goes in front of legislature this session. This bill includes the right to move freely, rest, sleep, and pray in public to protect oneself from the elements, occupy a legally parked vehicle, share food, and eat in public regardless of housing status.
 This bill was drafted after extensive street outreach was done in which 80% of survey respondents reported being harassed or criminalized for sleeping. Another 78% reported being harassed and criminalized for sitting or lying down, and 66% of respondents were cited for loitering or hanging out. The vast majority of the Oregon surveys were done in Portland.
 Martin Luther King Jr. said, law and order exists for the purpose of establishing justice, and when they fail in this purpose, they become the dangerously structured dams that block the flow of social progress. Laws and ordinances that target the houseless community for carrying out basic survival activities, such as sleeping, eating, or sharing food in public, and erecting a tent or putting up a tarp to protect themselves from the elements, do not exist for the purpose of justice. Yes.
 Furthermore, I assert that these laws and ordinances exist to perpetrate a cycle of houselessness by throwing up yet another barrier to housing and employment. For example, if you are cited for sleeping in the doorway, the charge is criminal trespass. Therefore...
 When you apply for an apartment or a job, this shows up on your record when they perform a background check, making you less likely to succeed. Keeping people houseless by criminalizing them for being houseless and unable to enter our already overcrowded shelter system benefits no one. MLK also said, one who breaks a law that conscience tells him is unjust and who willingly accepts the penalty of imprisonment in order to arouse the conscience of the community over its injustice is in reality expressing the highest respect for the law.
 This is what civil rights leaders have done in the past. We have a shameful past in this country of upholding discriminatory laws and ordinances designed to target different communities of color, and now we have a shameful present of upholding these same type of laws and ordinances.
 targeting the houseless community. This does not have to be our future. By supporting Right to Rest, we can break this cycle of injustice and stand up as a community, state, and eventually a country and say that we vow to end another form of discrimination against our fellow human being. Thank you. Hi, my name is Trish Reed, and I'm representing Right to Survive and the Homeless Bill of Rights Coalition.
 Martin Luther King Jr. said,
 All men, women, and children are created equal. The creation is not the issue. The issue is that there is a systemic problem that creates cuts in affordable housing and throws up more barriers for people to obtain the little affordable housing that is left. In the midst of this crisis, laws and ordinances designed to target and criminalize the houseless and low-income are created.
 Although we have made great strides in the struggle for equal rights for all, we cannot truly say as a nation that we treat all as they are created equally. As long as it is still illegal to criminalize and discriminate against the houseless community for carrying out basic activities needed for survival, such as eating and resting. Thank you.
 MLK also said, history will have to record that the greatest tragedy of this period of social transition was not the strident clamor of the bad people, but the appalling silence of the good people. I want to believe that our city council, the audience, and everyone watching this meeting are all good people. We cannot remain silent as our most vulnerable citizens are subjected to unjust laws and ordinances that criminalize them for erecting a tent, putting up a tarp,
 or sometimes merely covering themselves with a blanket to protect themselves from the elements carrying out the simple act of sleeping which is necessary biological need for everyone should not be illegal for anyone please come out and support for the homeless bill of rights and the right to rest bill it's not about separate rights it's about equal rights thank you thank you my name is jermaine johnson i'm representing the i represent
 Right to Dream 2, Bill of Rights campaign. We are a corporation that is introduced by the Bill of Rights legislators in California, Oregon, Colorado. The bill will be going in front of legislators in July. Our bill will help assure that no one will be targeted or expect the biological damage
 needs to sleep regarding the house of status. Mother of the King says, I had a dream that on the red hills of Georgia, son of the former slaves and the former slave owners will be able to return
 to sit together at the table of brotherhood. We also have a dream, our dream that is the homeless community no longer be targeted with justice and laws of ordinance and seek the discrimination against the crime people based on their pursuit of housing status, the laws of order used to target the houseless community today.
 Simply ugly laws, okie laws in the sundown towns use discriminate against people in color. The poor and the old represent sleep deprivation is a word we'll know.
 The United States has supported taking a formal sentence against torture. Why are we depriving people who are breaking no laws except having no place to
 to lay their heads. Please support our legislator and stop the cruel and inhumane purchase. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 If people want to find more about this campaign, how can they do that and how can they donate to help people? They can go to www.wraphome.org, and there's information on there about the Homeless Bill of Rights. WRAP is short for Western Regional Advocacy Project. It's a coalition of...
 Groups from California, Washington, and Oregon. Also, they can contact Red to Survive, or they can contact Monica Beamer at KABU.
 And we can get some information to them. We have campaign meetings at our office at 2249 East Burnside on the first, third, and fifth Fridays of the month at 1130 in the morning also. Wow. Thank you very much for your advocacy. Thank you for coming. And cinnamon rolls are available on your left. Carlo, his next.
 Number 80, request of Teresa Rayford to address council regarding police misconduct. Good morning, Ms. Rayford. Our Commissioner Novick. Good morning, other commissioners and the absent mayor.
 We have a video that the clerk has that I wanted to go ahead and present to you, along with a narrative from my brother who's been on the front lines fighting for his human dignity and rights in the city of Portland. So we'll start the video.
 Mr. Rayford, I just want to start by saying that we haven't had an opportunity to review this video and since the proceedings of the Council of Art — It's from Time magazine. Okay. It's safe media. Yeah, I just wanted to make sure that if people need to be warned that something children shouldn't see, they should be warned. Yes, sir. Yes, ma'am. I first seen it in an article from Time. Thank you. This is what we're doing out here, man. It's crazy out here, though. Thank you.
 I mean, he shouldn't deserve to die. I mean, he didn't deserve that many shots, though. Like, you can shoot somebody in they leg to stop them from running. You can shoot somebody in they leg to stop them from running, but you ain't got to shoot them down, brother. Why you got to shoot them in the head? He ain't even had no gun on him. It's crazy. I feel like they should keep protesting to this over with. And if it ain't, and if we don't get justice, then that's just what's going to happen, man. We're going to be out here every day. So something happened. Come on now, let's keep walking.
 I saw Trayvon Martin. I saw George Zimmerman get away with it. Now it's another case. Now if this police get away with it, now, I'm telling y'all, man, this ain't Florida. This is St. Louis, Missouri. Come on, brother. Quit talking about my aunt, bro. He was so young, man. He was finna go to college. Like, what if that was me, man? Like, I'm 14. I'm just not going to school and stuff.
 What if it was me finna go to college? Like, and then the only person in my family? And then I die right before the day of school start?
 So what's that all about? What's that? He was 18. He was too young to die. What is that, though? I don't know what that is. That's them. I wrote this. Let me ask you something. If it don't make a point, then why do it? They put this on there. I'm trying to scrape it off so I can write on it. Well, see, that's what I'm saying. Why put it on there when you go get a piece of paper and put it on there? Wait. Mike Mike made a statement in time now. You know what I'm saying?
 And we gotta keep his memory alive by not defacing property. And this is what they want y'all to do, this defacing property. Look at this, this don't even say nothing no more. Can't nobody really see it. When the rain comes, it could be washed away. But this right here will never be washed away. All these people out here will never be washed away. But I bet you get out there in the middle of the street, they gonna see you because your age.
 It's all about, it's just like fighting with your mind. Fight with a pen or a paper or a marker. You know what I'm saying? Make it bigger in every way so they can see. That's what we're doing. That's what we're doing, and we're not going to stop. We're not going to stop until we get justice. We're asking for it. We're working for it. We're educating our youth so that they can get it, so that they'll understand their power. They know you work for them.
 That's what they do know. And they're going to learn the rules of engagement so that they can win at this. But you've got to do it. You've got to be courageous. You can't have no buffers between you and the people that exist in this community. You can't go to people that you appoint as the professional of their problem and not speak to them directly, not be engaged with them directly. That's a direct insult. You've got to understand that. You've got to know that. You didn't see no leaders on that video standing around Kumbaya with their families. They're out there by themselves.
 Those people come to you to make you feel comfortable around us. We don't need that. You got to reduce those barriers and break those ties that bind you to injustice against us. Everything she just said is extremely valid. Sir, please state your name for the record. My name is Marcus. Thank you. I should not have to fear leaving this building and fear that I'm going to be followed by one of you guys because I'm here stating my name on a record.
 I also shouldn't fear that me dying is what's going to take for you guys to do something about what's happening to the people of color out here. I'm out here every day. This protest that you see on the video, that's an everyday thing for us. The protest is not us just walking down the streets yelling and screaming. My skin is the protest, it seems like. You guys sit behind this desk and act like you guys are doing something, but you're really not. Even watching this video, half of y'all really watched it while most of y'all really was just looking around at the audience.
 The cold faces you guys have, it's a sickness, it seems like. The protest is for you guys to wake up. The protest is for you guys to do something. The protest is us just knocking on the door before we kick the door down. Once again, it is a knock before we kick the door down. What are you afraid of? I'm educated. I'm not a gangbanger. What makes me different than you just because you have on a suit and tie and I wear a fitted cap and a hoodie? How would you feel if my people attacked you guys?
 because of how you dress and how you talk. And we follow you at all your Starbucks. Racism is a sickness. It's not something that you can just cover up with Martin Luther King quotes and Malcolm X quotes and Rosa Parks quotes. I'm not asking you to help me. I'm asking you to wake up yourself and teach the rest of your people to wake up. Use the power that you have to wake up your community, to unify so that there is equality. That is a fight that we have been fighting forever. Martin Luther King had the dream
 And that's all that he had. Now we are here putting the action after that dream. And I feel like that is the fear that you guys have is now that there's action, that the dream is actually being lived out. Thank you, Mr. Marcus. Really appreciate your testimony on the video. Know what we're asking for. Make the right recommendations and stand accountable, even if your signature is on the contract, Charles. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Item 81, request of Mimi Germain to address counsel regarding police misconduct. Hi, my name is Mimi Germain. I have a plea for city council today. I didn't know it was a plea, but I spoke to a lawyer this morning, and he said, this is a plea. Dr. Martin Luther King had what I call the triple threat, and he dealt with it. And I want to reiterate what it was that he said and how I think we can make things move along in our city.
 the triple threat racism poverty and militarism these are the things that he addressed and this is what i'm addressing today i come today in solidarity as a white woman with the black community of portland and black communities everywhere daily i see the oppression of my black sisters and brothers it is easy to see because it is everywhere if your eyes and heart are watching empathy and understanding don't require much more than an opening of the heart i am here to talk to your hearts
 We are in a fight for justice. We, white, black, red, yellow, all of us need equality.
 We are in a fight for justice and we will not sit quietly or politely in your institutions. We will win. Justice occurs when oppressors have been held accountable for the crimes they have committed against society. Today I speak about the crimes committed against the black community by Portland's racist police who go unpunished and free to continue to commit terror against people of color in this city. Today I'm speaking about the injustices...
 of children of color not having adequate education in our schools while paying white overlords hundreds of thousands of dollars to continue the oppression at hand. Today I'm talking about the militarization of the police force that is present not only at protests and marches, but also at school board meetings to protect the board from the people they are supposed to be working for, which is what happened last night.
 Demilitarize your minds so that you can see the insanity of what you are doing to the people in your community, the people who have hired you to do your jobs. Racial profiling and an unfettered power over the black community must change. If you must enforce something, enforce dignity for all humanity right here in the city of Portland. Care about what you have been elected to do.
 In honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, whose name is a guiding light for truth and justice for all, I ask you to use your collective power to immediately hold accountable all police behavior that resembles, even in its shadows, a reflection of racism. End racism now. This can be done today. Will you stand with me in full commitment to ensure that the black community can not only relinquish its fear of walking in the streets of Portland, but thrive in our city?
 In honor of the truth spoken by Dr. Martin Luther King for equality of all people, will you stand with me? All of us in this chamber, in city council, stand with me and end racism in Portland now. We will hold you accountable. Thank you, Ms. Germann. And again, if you'd like a cinnamon roll, there's one to your left. I do not want one.
 Now move on to the consent calendar. Carla, I understand a number of items have been pulled? Correct. Yes, I have 82, 83, 84, 88, and 89. Okay. Is there anything left? We'll handle it. Can you say this again, please? 82, 84, 88, and 89.
 83, 88 and 89. All right. We'll take those up at the beginning of the regular agenda. Meanwhile, we'll take a vote on the balance of the consent calendar. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Okay. The balance of the consent agenda is passed. And let's see, we move on to 82, Carla?
 Authorize City Attorney to appear as Amicus Curiae in support of victims of human trafficking. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioner Novick, members of the council. My name is Harry Auerbach. I'm Chief Deputy City Attorney.
 The matter before you is a resolution to authorize our office to sign on to a brief being prepared by the City and County of San Francisco in a case brought by plaintiffs in Massachusetts alleging complicity of online advertisers and human sex trafficking. I'd be happy to answer any questions you have about that. Do we know who pulled the item? I actually pulled it because I did want to bring attention to this item. I think it's important.
 It's an important issue for us to join with the city and county of San Francisco in filing a friend of the court brief in this case. It does involve child victims of sex trafficking who were trafficked via the Internet. And while the Internet has brought many positive changes, I also feel that it has been used as a tool to promote trafficking of women and children. I believe that this case seeks to protect victims of sex trafficking, and I do support that.
 our city joining with the city and county of San Francisco to file this friend of the court brief. And I ask Terry to be here to answer any questions. Thank you, Commissioner. Carla, do we have a sign-up sheet for this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet for pooled items. Thank you, Mr. Aravac. Carla, please call the roll. Does anyone want to testify on this item? Okay.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I'm glad that Commissioner Schultzman pulled this item. I know that the city and the Police Bureau have worked in the past and that both the Human Rights Commission and, I think, the city police department have specialists concerned with human trafficking. When we talk about going amicus curiae, maybe in the northern district of California, I can't help but think that this is a much better use of our city attorney's time
 than having them appeal this decision of Judge Simon regarding the United States of America suing the city of Portland and y'all settling with them. The other issue that needs to be raised is this fall, your idea of fighting human trafficking was simply to have the Portland police pay for a guy to fly here from New York, a lonely guy, and then set him up as if he was some sort of pimp. So I hope that the new police chief, Chief O'Day,
 We'll be working closely with you all to make sure that your real human trafficking fight is focused on real victims and real underage victims and not having police send a thousand text messages to an adult in New York about a fictitious adult that exists in the minds of detectives. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Johnson. Anyone else want to testify on this item? Carla, please call the roll.
 Fritz? I thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for pulling this to bring attention to it. I certainly support the effort to crack down on sexual slavery and exploitation. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? I want to thank the City Attorney for Serena Turey's office for bringing this important case to our attention, and we're happy to have you join in this case. Aye. Novick? Thanks to the City Attorney's office and to Commissioner Saltzman for drawing attention to this item. Aye. Okay.
 83, accept bid of Kodiak Pacific Construction for the Southeast 136th Avenue from Southeast Powell Boulevard to Southeast Division Street sidewalk infill project for $921,129. Who pulled this item? Mr. Lightning pulled this one. Okay. Do we have, is Christine Moody here to address this item? Christine's here and she's going to give a presentation. Okay.
 Oh, hey, Christine. Come on up. Morning, Commissioner. Morning. I actually was here for another item, so I'll just let you know that this is a procurement report recommending a contract award to... A little louder, Christine. Pull the mic down. I'm sorry. How about that? Does that work? Recommending a contract award to Kodiak Pacific Construction, and in the amount of...
 $912,129, which is below the engineer's estimate of $1,146,000. Sounds good. There is a 74.4% MWESB participation on this project. Withdrawing attention to that. Excellent. This is the second time in two weeks that you've come to us where the bid was below
 the engineers estimate, and yet we've seen in other areas bids coming in above because of the just economic forces. Any particular reason why we're now seeing better prices? On this one, I think it probably has to do with the competitiveness. There was 10 bids received on this. So when there's more bids received, the pricing tends to go a bit lower.
 Perhaps our contracting community shares our commitment to building sidewalks in Outer East Portland, so that's why they're particularly enthusiastic about this. Thank you, Christine. Does anyone want to testify on this item? My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning PDX Rethink Lab. One of the things I want to have a clear understanding on transportation is that when we see vehicles out there with the City of Portland doing the paving and various other projects,
 Is it more beneficial to have the city of Portland doing those jobs? And is the city of Portland paid back when they do those jobs? Because when I'm seeing these other contractors coming in and getting bids throughout and doing work, that money is being directed to those contractors. But when we have a shortfall of money to transportation in the areas of streets, paving, sidewalks, and other areas –
 Is it not more advantageous to actually have the City of Portland doing these jobs?
 Could you answer that, Mr. Novy? Actually, Lightning, we are restricted in some ways in that state law requires that jobs above a certain size, which can include some kinds of paving jobs, have to be contracted out. That's state law. So the things that we can do ourselves, we generally do, which includes some paving projects. The sidewalk projects, generally, we do contract out, and in part that's because of state law requirements and what size of jobs have to be contracted out. Okay.
 And is the city, in fact, reimbursed when you do the job back to the general fund or to transportation? Are they not reimbursed down the line? We have to – but transportation does that work with its own – with the money that it receives from the gas tax and from parking revenues. Transportation gets very little general fund. Okay, very good. Thank you. Thank you, Len. Anyone else to testify on this item? Move to accept the report. Second.
 Carolyn, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Item 84, pay claim of Mel Schulwitz in the sum of $88,000 involving Bureau of Environmental Services. Mr. Fish? Mr. Buehler is here. I think there's an amendment you want us to take up? That's correct. We pulled this first. You can give us your name and just tee it up for us. I'm John Buehler from the Risk Management Office.
 And we pulled this off the consent agenda just to make a minor amendment as to the payee. We had failed to include the claimant's attorney as a co-payee on the check according to the ordinance. So the correction should be as follows. Part A of the directive part of the ordinance should read,
 The mayor and the auditor are hereby authorized to draw and deliver a check in the amount of $88,000 made payable to Mel Shulowitz, and then with this addition, and to Stephen Kahn, his attorney. I move the amendment. Second. Carla, please. Is there anybody to testify in this? Carla, please call the roll. On the amendment? Yes. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. No.
 and testify on the item as a whole. It was on the consent agenda. If you need anything further, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Why don't you hang out in case an issue comes up? There certainly are specific questions. I'm more familiar with settlements. Just last week, I was in a meeting with a member of the Senate
 The great management that y'all in the police department do made you pay out $47,000 to a guy who had his leg chewed on by a dog. So when you have these things, don't even put them on the consent agenda anymore. Have a written statement that says, the injury or wrong experienced by the party is blank, and although we use fancy technical legal language and admit no guilt, we're sorry it happened, and tell the people what happened. So please direct a question to your...
 Party here and have them explain what happened to one of our neighbors and why? $88,000 of taxpayer money is being expended. Thank you. I don't care if it's printed in any fancy document linked on the web I want to hear announced in red in the record. Thank you very much My name is Charles Johnson if I skip that part Thank You Charles anyone else which to testify in this item Hello, please color all fritz. I fish I Saltzman, I know Vic. All right Item 88
 authorize an agreement with Portland Streetcar Inc. to provide a streetcar operator relief point. Commissioner Novick, I mean Mr. President, I pulled this item for discussion. I'm concerned as to why we're paying for operations to
 to Portland Streetcar when we already pay overhead to Portland Streetcar, why we would be providing bathroom and kitchen cleaning services, and why we're entering into this contract which includes an agreement for Portland Streetcar Inc. to enter into a five-year lease for this office space when later in the agenda we're going to be considering going out for a bid for a new contract potentially with somebody else.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Catherine, Mr. Bauer, would you please address those questions? Yes, thank you. So this agreement provides for the operator relief point. The city, to answer perhaps your questions in reverse order, the city is not party to the lease between PSI and the building owner?
 This agreement specifically is between the city and PSI for the operator relief point, which provides a break and a bathroom for operators. It is on both the NS and the CL lines. Just going back to Lisa, excuse me for interrupting, but why is then the lease a part of the contract? I think that PSI is acknowledging that they have entered into a lease and they have control of the space that they're offering to us.
 I believe what the contract says. It's more of a whereas statement. No, it's part of the agreement. Both parties agree that PSI agrees to enter into a five-year lease for office space. We could probably amend that language. We've already entered into the agreement. It's completely separate from this. But the city is not a party to that? No, absolutely not. That's correct. No, PSI has a lease agreement on its own office space. Yes, sir.
 So to the question... This agreement is effective as of December 1st, so you've already entered into this agreement? No. It was drafted for December 1st day. In answer to your question about operator relief points, we have had a trailer at the OMSI location for operator relief, which includes a bathroom. And there is also an operator relief in southwest Lowell and south waterfront.
 where drivers can get out of the vehicle, use the restroom, take a break.
 With the extension of the loop, the trailer at the OMSI location, I believe, will be removed, which only makes it more important that the operators have a place on the line where we can switch drivers and an operator can go to a break room and use a restroom. Why isn't this providing such a place part of the overhead that we pay to Portland Streetcar Inc. to manage? You don't pay me any overhead. Yes, we do.
 Not in the current agreement, you do not. My understanding is that what the city is agreeing to do here is to provide cleaning services for the relief point, which is something that our maintenance crews do elsewhere. So it's more convenient for us to do it rather than to have Portland Streetcar, Inc. contract separately for somebody else to do it. Do I have that right, Catherine? That's correct. Our city utility workers have a regular route. They clean all platforms.
 and pick up garbage, and they do that at the other two relief points. So this would be adding this as a stop for them in their regular route. The crux of the issue is Portland Street Car Rink is not responsible for providing bathrooms for the operators. That's not part of the agreement.
 The city needs to have an operator relief point at some point. You're going to have to clean a bathroom at some point. Ours happens to be right where both lines cross. It's built and ready to be used today. So it's a question of how much do we want to pay for toilet paper and who's paying for toilet paper. And I realize it's a relatively small amount. However, we do build into all of our contracts with Portland Streetcar Inc. There is an additional markup.
 So I don't understand why I have to disagree with that. I that's not the way the contracts written. Well, I think there's a there's a difference between the capital contracts
 Which I believe you're referring to, and the operating agreement. The operating agreement does not provide for a profit margin. Okay, but the capital contract has a built-in overhead. The capital contracts, I believe, did. And Catherine, am I correct that currently the operators are using facilities at the maintenance yard, for example, as relief points, which we maintain? So we provide cleaning services there. We do have the headquarters under I-405.
 Right. Which has facilities, but unfortunately it's not on the intersection of both lines. So this is a more convenient location for operators using both the NS and CL lines. But it involves a bathroom that's going to be located in Portland Street Car Inc.'s offices. There is a bathroom in the office, and they are making it available to the operators to use, yes. So who's cleaning it now? I am.
 And that's the case for many of our remote locations in Office of Neighborhood Associations. It's the staff. Correct. And if it was just my staff using it, not 54 operators a day, I'd be perfectly fine with that. I have two staff. I've been cleaning it for several months. Thank you for doing that. I enjoy it. But with 54 operators a day circling through there routinely, the bathroom gets pretty heavily used. My neighbors have already complained about the number of times the toilet is flushing. Right.
 It's a very convenient spot. I mean, again, my argument here is you're going to have to clean a bathroom somewhere along the line. This bathroom is right there. It's already built. There's not a whole lot more to this. So this is a much more convenient place for the operators to stop as opposed to going on to the maintenance yard and using the facilities there. And instead of paying for additional cleaning at the maintenance yard and buying additional toilet paper, we're paying for it here instead. That's correct. Thank you.
 how does trimet manage this issue i do not know how trimet does their operator relief points they have a full-time staff person whose job it is to go out and find relief points for drivers some of this happens through public private partnerships like this where for example our our relief point down at lowland bond is a partnership with streetcar and the city and reach where they agreed to build a bathroom in exchange for the city cleaning it and using it for their operator point
 Sometimes when we have issues with the system, we'll make a deal with a coffee shop and agree to have our drivers come in, and I'll go in and pay $100 up front out of my budget so our operators have free reign to the bathroom. It's just a deal-by-deal basis. I can tell you right now, as an operator, I mean, I've been dealing with them a lot. They have 15 minutes at most, and for them to have to walk six blocks out of direction both ways to use a bathroom is an extreme inconvenience for them right now. Where's the nearest loo?
 Portland Lou would be in the was that Park Jameson Square How far is that it's about three blocks. Thank you for your explanation. Thank you. Thank you Any anybody want to testify in this item? No, okay, I'm not that nervous My name is Joe walls. I represent individuals for justice. I
 This is a really interesting item because it was under consent agenda, and it's also under an emergency, which automatically annoys us. It seems to me, and please correct me if I'm wrong, is this was a reaction to the auditor coming down and severely criticizing the department, saying things like your ridership is 19% over what it is,
 that the figures are phony, that you don't know what you're doing, that management is really bad. For an auditor to say those things, for me to say it, you're kind of used to it. But for an auditor to say it, it's significant, because usually the words are more gentle than that. So what do we have in this? My understanding is, Commissioner Novick, you are contracting people
 to somebody outside the city to come in and tell you exactly what the auditor just told you. Because that's what your paperwork says. You're going to spend anywhere from $500,000 to $1 million of transportation money for a contractor to tell you you're screwed up. So I have a deal for you. I have a deal for you. Don't interrupt me. I'm going to tell you you're screwed up. Just give me $50,000.
 And we can save...
 $900,000 or whatever it is. These are the reasons that we do not trust you with the money. Because you do stuff like this. Don't interrupt me, sir. Do not interrupt me, sir. I have three minutes. When my three minutes are up, you can run your mouth forever. You have testimony on this item, on cleaning bathrooms. I'm speaking on this item. You are spending a million dollars on this item. No, we are not.
 You wanted a consent agenda. Just slip it underneath the table. Mr. Walsh, you're actually addressing a separate item. Your testimony is not addressed to this item. If you have testimony, I'm saying that you're talking about the procurement. This is 88. The Bureau estimates these services could range from $500,000 to $1 million based on prior year's data. Where am I wrong, sir?
 why'd you read that joe tell me where i am wrong in your own paperwork it's here would you like to see it amanda i will send it up to you i believe it's item number 95. we're talking about the prices right you're talking about the price of toilet paper yeah well mr walsh if you want to return to testify in item 95 you're free to do so
 Okay, I'll return to Custody 95 and basically say the same thing. Thank you, sir. That is my argument. I'm sorry. I was outside. I walked in. I thought this was item 88. It is. Then why is the paperwork, this came right off the computer? It's on the agenda later. It's a different item. But, I mean, why would this be a different item if –
 You asked for the paperwork on 88 on your website. The link is wrong, you're telling us? Pardon? Maybe the link is wrong, is incorrect? Well, how is that possible if you just click on the number and you say, give me all the copies of the paperwork? I don't know, Mr. Walsh, but there's two separate streetcar items. There's this one and there's 95, and I think that your comments are more intended to address 95. Okay.
 I have copies of them both, if you want to take a minute and we can go over them separately.
 Sure. Okay. All right. This is the streetcar. That's the one I wanted to talk about. So you want me to go back to 1995? There's two separate. Yes, please, sir. But I'm telling you that there is a problem on your website because the command that I gave was give me the background paperwork on this item, and this is what came up. So why is that? I don't know, Mr. Walsh. We'll check into that. Thank you. That would be a good thing. Of course, it's a million dollars here, a million dollars there. What the hell?
 thank you mr walsh all right i'll be back on that item okay anybody else testifying this item i just have one further question and that is about the emergency clause since you what's the urgency to get this done now rather than in 30 days for us the bathroom is available for use and
 Having operator access to a restroom seemed like a routine business item. They're already using it, according to what I'm hearing. Well, they have started last week because last week the OMSI station was shut down, so the operators had no place to use the bathroom on the Central Loop line. So I allowed them to use my bathroom last week. Thank you. If it doesn't have to be an emergency, that's perfectly fine with me. It's retroactive to December anyway, right? Right. They've been using it for about a week. Yeah.
 So you don't, there's no real need, we could remove the emergency clause. Yeah. If you wished. And then Mr. Bauer would continue cleaning the bathroom himself? That's fine. It makes my wife happy. So is that your wish, Commissioner? Yes, please. Okay. I forget, do we need a motion to remove the emergency clause? Yes, we do. I move that we remove the emergency. Thank you for your testimony. Sure. Is there a second? Second. Second.
 Please call the roll, Carla. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. And do we have a roll call on the underlying item? Pass to a second reading. Oh, that's right. I apologize. Thank you very much to staff for being present and answering my questions. All right. Do we have item 89? 89. Thank you.
 Amend contract with Innovative Growth Solutions LLC in the amount of $35,000 for additional transportation finance and economic analysis for the Portland Street Fund and authorize payment. Second. I had to pull this because I accidentally put it on consent. Second reading. Roll call. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Aye.
 Is that the first time you've pulled something yourself? I think I've done this before. Well, good catch. Thank you. Item 90, amend a contract with Sierra Training Associates, Inc. in the amount of $52,400 to provide additional communications training services. And, Carla, I think I might have seen that this item was returned to the mayor's office. Was I making that up? I have Citizen Mimi Germann pull this.
 I had a citizen, Mimi Grimand, pull please.
 I'm sorry, I just wanted to clarify something. What I have here for his regular agenda night... I'm sorry, right. Is that right? It's on regular, sorry. But I hadn't heard the mayor's office had referred this back. You had? I have not heard that. You have not heard that. Huh, that's in my notes for some reason. They're trying to find out. Why don't we defer it? Yeah, can we defer it until we get clarification? It may be referred back to the mayor's office. They may not take testimony.
 We'll come back to it as soon as we find out from the Mayor's office. Move on to 91. Authorize a price agreement with Calais America, Inc. for the purchase of multi-space parking, pay stations, and related services for a five-year total not to exceed amount of $11,900,000. Thank you.
 Christine Moody, Procurement Services. On December 11, 2013, City Council passed an ordinance authorizing the issuance of a competitive solicitation to develop a five-year price agreement for the purchase of parking pay stations and related services. On April 15, 2014, a request for proposals was issued, and on May 20, 2014, five proposal responses were received. The RFP process included four evaluation steps.
 First, a preliminary review for responsiveness to the minimum RFP requirements was performed. Then a written evaluation process of the proposals by a five-person evaluation team that included three city staff, one person from the City of Eugene, and one minority evaluator. At that time, three proposals were shortlisted to continue on in the process. The next stage of the process was a system review that was comprised of three components.
 A system demonstration was evaluated by six technical experts, including staff from the meter shop and technology services. On-street trials where the equipment was tested on the street and evaluated by staff from the meter shop, and a parking customer survey in which over 600 responses were received. After this stage, two proposers moved on to the last step of the evaluation process, in which oral interviews were performed, and the proposers each submitted a best and final offer.
 This was evaluated by a team that included PBOT staff and a minority evaluator. The evaluation committee determined that CalA America was the highest scoring proposer and should be awarded the price agreement. I wanted to commend the work of Barb Gibson from Procurement Services and Marnie Glick from Transportation on their work on this RFP. This process was well thought out, and the city received no protests on awarding this contract.
 You have before you the procurement report recommending awarding of a contract to CalA America for a five-year not-to-exceed amount of $11,900,000. CalA America, Inc. has a current City of Portland business license and is in full compliance with city business requirements. I wanted to note that CalA America is a legally distinct company from the CalA USA in which the city previously had a contract.
 At this point, I will turn this over to Marnie Glick from Portland Bureau of Transportation, if you have any questions about the project, and I can answer questions about the solicitation process. So I'm Marnie Glick, Transportation, and I'm just available to answer questions you might have about the project. Marnie, this is not directly related to the matter before us, but could you remind us –
 When someone parks on the street and the parking pay station that services the block that they're parking is not functioning...
 What are you supposed to do? We tell people to go around the corner and find another machine that's working. Right. And what about reporting the machine that isn't working? There is a phone number on the machine itself. We encourage people to call the help desk, and the help desk will make a note of it. And then our meter repair shop will see the help desk tickets, and they'll respond to those. And what are some of the reasons why a parking machine might not be operational? Okay.
 There could be a number of reasons. One could be that the paper, the meter receipt paper may be jammed inside. There may be coins that may be jamming the machine. On occasion we find that people will gun
 gum up the openings in the machine, which would affect its performance. It's possible also that while the machines are solar-powered, it could be that the battery is not working. It would also cause the machine to go down. So those are some of the more frequent reasons. Any other questions? Thank you very much. Carla, do we have any testimony in this item? I think two people signed up. I don't have the sign-up sheet right now. Okay.
 Looks like we do have someone. Hi. My name is Robin Cash, and I wanted actually to speak about an earlier issue, and I asked one of the staff people where to sign up, and he directed me, and 91 was the only thing. If you could give me one minute, it's not about 91. Okay.
 Actually, we generally restrict testimony to the item before us. What was the item that you wanted to talk about? So I wanted to talk about the earlier issue about homelessness where we were talking. Actually, we're talking about that in the context of communications that people sign up for in advance. We can't really have people interrupt the agenda to address issues that were addressed in communications. I apologize. Me too.
 Thank you. So you could talk to Carla to sign up for one of those communications yourself, if you'd like, or you could send us your comments in writing. We do read those. Thank you. Thank you for your extreme courtesy today. Did Joe Walsh and Charles Johnson wish to speak to item 91? Good. Thank you. Wait. Yeah. Go ahead, Joey. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And since after three years, our brilliant DA, Mr. Underhill, is still prosecuting Jameson Park defendants from 2011. I was a bit distracted, so I didn't hear all the presentation. But when I see $11 million, and I think there are some problems with the website because the PDF, which is only showing me one page at this time, I really think that the citizens would like to know
 return on investment, some ROI here. We're going to pay $11 million for some parking stuff. How much of this money is going to come back to the city and be available for funding streets and TriMed and all that? There is obviously the cost of the machines and of enforcement. Marty, what's the percentage, I mean, of revenues that goes to enforcement in the meters? Actually, why don't you come up if you could. Mm-hmm.
 So I guess what I would say for parking costs is about for every dollar of revenue, it costs us 33 cents to generate. So about a third of the cost is spent on operating. And –
 As you mentioned previously, parking revenue is a very significant revenue source for transportation. It's the second largest, and we bring in about $22 million, $23 million a year from parking revenue. Thank you. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. When I saw this item, I just had a thought. What?
 During the testimony of where to raise funds for the repair of our roads, one of the suggestions was a sticker to put on the cars. And that became really complicated because nobody could figure out what the laws were or how we could do it or how complicated it would get. And we were looking at people that were driving into the city, and that seemed to be the big interest there.
 I wondered about the parking spots. It would seem to be easy if we had parking places that people would pay a yearly fee in order to park there. So if you went to a building, you would have to have a sticker on your car, plus you would have to pay the normal paying, whatever that amount would be. That would generate an awful lot of money.
 And you would tap into the people coming into the city that actually use our roads. So it would complement the sticker idea, but it would make it simple. Instead of running around trying to figure out how you would put stickers on cars that are just kind of moving. So if you have them in a parking garage, it seems to me that that may be a possible way of generating some loot. Right.
 And I know that you want the loot. MR. Thank you, Mr. Walsh.
 My assumption is, and I think this is why they do it in Chicago, we weren't going to have cops stopping people moving while they see if they have a sticker. But the enforcement of a sticker regime, which we're asking the legislature if they give us authority to do, although there's separate questions whether we actually do it, would involve going into parking garages. That would involve, of course, hiring additional people because we need enforcement officers who weren't just going into the streets but going into the garages. Okay.
 Okay. You're saying that it's not legally possible to do that now? Our attorneys believe that the legislative prohibition against the city having vehicle registration fees, given the way the language reads, could easily be read to prohibit us from requiring that anybody who parks in the city has a sticker.
 My name is Mimi Gurman, and I have, I think, three questions. One is, don't we already have meters that work? We don't have meters in parts of the city where we've decided we need to have meters, such as in Northwest and in the Central East Side. Okay. So if the meters that we already have that we're talking about aren't working, so we need a different meter, who is responsible then for –
 It's not that the meters we have aren't working. It's that we don't have enough of them. We need a bunch of new meters in places where there currently are meters. I thought I heard the other woman speaking saying that the meters are broken and they get gummed up and the paper doesn't work right for the receipts and things like that. So that made me think they weren't working right. Okay. Well, that's one question that hasn't been answered yet. But the others are, of the $0.33 per dollar,
 for cost, how much of that, is that everything? Does that include, and I guess this is to the woman who presented, does that include the cost for workers, not just anybody who is dealing with repairing meters or putting in meters, but is that office costs, is that personnel? What I really want to know is what's the true cost?
 of this. The 33 cents covers what exactly? And does that cover administrative fees? Does that cover salaries? Or is that on top of it, meaning that the city gets nothing in return? That's my point. The city certainly gets something. Marty, do you want to come back up again and address that? So the 33 cents includes all of our staff costs, repair and maintenance, basically everything that we put into operating the system. And I also wanted to go back and
 We have no plans to replace the machines that are currently on street now. They are working. They're working fine. We do a lot of preventative maintenance. There are things that just happen in the course of the day that just keep a machine from working the way we would like it to. And so we will be continuing with our ongoing maintenance of the current installation. As the Commissioner said, we need additional machines, and so we went through this process to purchase additional machines.
 We may or may not purchase all that we would be able to under the contract, but it gives us some capacity to purchase more machines as we determine that paid parking should be expanded. Thank you. Let me also just clarify something. We sometimes get asked what happens when the machine on a street is not functioning. And it's going to – it's not going to – it's going to –
 failed to function from time to time for the reasons she explained. It might be vandalized, the paper might run out, whatever. Some people who use our system think that if that machine isn't working, they're not required to get a sticker from another machine. So what I wanted to do is put that out there, because some people get tickets thinking, remember the old days when your meter didn't work? No, I know what you're saying. The meter didn't work, then you could put a note saying meter's broken. Right. But now...
 It's as if the meter's around the corner and you still have to get a sticker. So I just wanted to clarify that people still have to find a sticker. So as a final question, the money that then comes back to the city, where does that money go? That money goes into maintaining our streets. It's a major source of, in addition to the gas tax, it's a major source of revenue for what street maintenance we can afford to do. Thank you. Thank you. Carry on. Anyone else to testify on this item? No.
 Can I have a motion to accept the report? I move the procurement report. Second. Thank you. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick and staff, for diligently looking into this issue and for taking the time. It is interesting that you settled on Calais as the favored option, and I trust that you have done your due diligence. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 Well, thanks to Barney and to the procurement team for going through this process and coming to this result. I should note that although we have lost some money in parking revenues, we've postponed the day that we have meters in Northwest, it also turns out at the interim the cost of purchasing the meters themselves has gone down. So that was, I mean, we were spending less for the meters than we would have thought we were a year and a half ago. Thank you.
 Did you want to take care of Item 90? Oh, yeah. Item 90 is being returned to the Mayor's Office. Let me try to read the title again. Amend a contract with Sierra Training Associates, Inc. in the amount of $52,400 to provide additional communications training services. And the Mayor's Office asked that to be returned to them. Item 92, amend transient lodging tax to add definitions and clarify duties for operators for short-term rental locations.
 Second reading and roll call. Fritz? So unfortunately I'm not able to support this ordinance. I am very concerned that we are taking the wrong approach, that the short-term rentals generate over 600 jobs and helps about 60 percent of the folks who are renting out a room on an occasional basis to stay in their homes, according to the Airbnb survey. And that is a worthy thing.
 It changes the way we do enforcement to going at using a tax-based approach to going after folks who have not gotten permits. And if we're going to pick, if we're going to change to that approach, I think it requires a much broader policy discussion because usually our enforcement is complaint-driven and there are multiple other things that are advertised on the Internet that we are not going after to find out whether or not they're paying their taxes.
 I understand that each of the platforms are different and that not all of them have been as helpful as Airbnb, so that's challenging. I also recognize that this current approach has the director of the revenue department involved
 very much responsible for figuring out who to go after and who not. And I don't think that the regulations are adequately specific in that fact. I'm concerned about the number of additional staff we're going to need to take this approach. And this is an experiment that we need to take the lesser encouragement approach before we go after folks with a big stick. And I don't think that we have done enough in terms of educating
 the hosts about the need to get permits. And I also don't want the Internet advertising sites getting information that hosts have divulged to an entrusted website without their permission. I think we're walking down a road here that requires a much bigger conversation about freedom of the Internet, but also confidentiality of information.
 personal information. And so I would prefer to go down an educational approach because the other thing that we're doing is challenging our former partner, Airbnb, and potentially fighting that issue of the...
 having to divulge the information to us, I think that's going to cost taxpayers a lot of money and that we should have the broader conversation about that at the same time. I think the sharing economy should not be top-down, but it should be a bottom-up approach looking at how to help it benefit regular people who are, well, educating them on maintaining their responsibility to comply with the regulations and that we should start with that before we go to this discussion.
 big stick approach. So respectfully, no. Fish? I want to start by thanking Thomas Lanham and the Revenue Bureau staff for their good work in this area, Liam Frost in my office, and what I think has been a very collegial and collaborative discussion at Council. So I approach this a little differently, and I'll just put the human face on it. I have a 22-year-old daughter who is likely to use a short-term rental site.
 If she chooses to do so, I want to make sure that it's a safe place. Just like I want to make sure if she goes to a hotel, a motel, or a bed and breakfast, it's safe. So, I'd like to know that the host has honorable intentions. I'd like to know that there's a working smoke detector. And I'd like to know the event of a fire, that there's some place that she can escape the unit through.
 Our regulatory system is designed to make sure that guests are safe. Over 93% of hosts that are currently in this business have not sought a permit from the city. That means that there are hundreds of places in our community where we cannot say with a straight face that the guest is safe.
 We have set up what I believe is a reasonable regulatory system, but what we have been told by the industry is butt out. An industry, by the way, that is a $40 billion industry today or more. And they've said, you at the local level stay out of our way. You don't have a right to regulate us. Well, I disagree. I think in Portland we have the right to enforce reasonable community standards.
 With every right, there's a responsibility. Unlike other cities in the country that are in court prohibiting short-term rentals, we have embraced short-term rentals. But we have said with the right comes a responsibility. And I do not think that it is an intrusive requirement for a platform that makes money advertising these units to ensure that the host is complying with the reasonable community standards of this city.
 So while last week I voted no to extend the right to multifamily apartment buildings, I did so then because the industry has made it clear they do not intend to play ball with us on the enforcement side. Today I think we've struck the right balance on enforcement, and I'm going to vote aye. Again, thank you, Thomas, and all the folks who've worked diligently on this ordinance. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 Thank you, Thomas. And I'd also like to thank Steve Unger, of the Lion and Rose Bed and Breakfast, who came to this council and proposed what I thought was the brilliant idea of simply requiring that any online listing for a short-term rental list the permit number, which is a very simple way of our being able to do effective enforcement.
 What we've been doing is authorizing an activity which is currently illegal and making it legal under certain rules. And for those rules to stick, we have to have enforcement. I agree with Commissioner Fish. I think we have struck the right balance here. Aye. Excited. 93. 93.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Southeast Division Place and Southeast 6th Avenue Sewer Rehabilitation Project number E10630 for an estimated cost of $720,000. Commissioner Fish. I'm going to turn it over to my team.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish and City Council. My name is Scott Gibson. I'm at the Bureau of Environmental Services, and with me today is Terrence Chan. He's an engineer at BES who's also the project manager, and we're going to talk about a very basic sewer construction project. And I'll turn it over to Terrence. Terrence, you got the first slide? I'll turn it over to Terrence to tell you a bit about the project. First of all, I would like to start with a couple photos of the project.
 This project is located on Southeast Division Place between Southeast 6th and 7th Avenue in an industrial area. Here is a picture of the project site. And here are some pictures from the CCTV inspection showing the existing condition of the pipe and the manhole. So you can see cracks and the pipe is a little bit oval and there's standing water in the pipe.
 The 18-inch combined stool in this project was built in 1919. The CCTV inspection showed major cracking and deformation along the entire length of the pipe. An extended portion of the pipe is oval in shape, as you see in the previous pictures, and there are two major sacks along the pipe segment, so full replacement of the stool pipe is necessary before complete failure occurs.
 Also, modeling analysis shows that the pipe is under capacity and needs to be upsized to 30-inch to prevent surcharge. There are some challenges in this project. First of all, there are numerous utilities near the pipe to be replaced, including a 20-inch and a 4.5-inch gas main about 4 feet to the north, a 100-year-old 30-inch cast iron water main about 9 feet to the south,
 and a 15-inch sanitary sewer about two feet to the south. Moreover, the ground condition in the project area is poor, with low-cohesion granular soil on top of sawdust and undocumented fuel, which makes it shoring. Excuse me?
 When we say undocumented field, what are we referring to? Yeah, we don't know what it's there because, you know, back in the old days, people just dumped whatever they find and just filled that whole area.
 So there's not records of how the fill was placed, whether adequate compaction was achieved when it was being placed. And most likely it was exactly as Terence described, just end-dumped sawmill debris that was just pushed into a pile. So we can't rely on its geotechnical properties is essentially what he's saying. So this makes the shoring for any excavation very challenging. So due to the above reasons, after meeting with the Technical Review Committee,
 The design team selected the ball and jack construction method for replacing the majority of the deteriorating sewer to minimize conflict with other utilities and the risk of caving in of the trench. The scope of work for this project is to replace about 280 ln feet of 18-inch sewer with 30-inch HDPE pipe by the ball and jack and open-cut construction method.
 replaced five laterals, two manholes, and three inlets. Extensive community outreach has been conducted since July last year through information flyers. Public concerns and issues were identified and incorporated into the design. This project will increase the sewer capacity, reduce risk of street flooding and sewer backup, and hence protect public health and the environment.
 So the overall engineer's estimate for this contract is $720,000. Terrence has done a good job at fully defining the scope and using most recent bid results to come up with that estimate. He's listed the estimate at optimal level of confidence. We do have some questions, given the risky nature of this particular project, about how the contractor is going to price that risk. So...
 While we've done our best to estimate an optimal, I think this is probably a chance where we might not meet that standard. And once again, it will be determined by how many bids we receive and how the contractors price the risk of the poor soils. So moving forward, the total project budget is $939,000. We're looking for a notice to proceed in June, and construction will be from June through November. And if there are any questions, Terrence is here to answer them.
 Two questions. The ordinance itself says estimated cost of $720,000. So what's the difference between the two figures? That would be the construction administration and design administration. So the $720,000 is for the construction contract. The others are costs for geotechnical investigation, surveying for our engineering staff, also construction management services and PI services during construction. So that's the margin.
 Scott, is this specialized work, or are we likely to have multiple bids by qualified contractors? It is specialized work. We estimate between three and five bidders.
 But it is specialized work. We have a program that you approved for urgent rehabilitation of sewers, which we use for more routine stuff. But because this is basically a jacked-in-place pipe, it's a little bit more technical. We didn't establish that contract to cover that, so we're procuring a separate contract. And also, you said there's some risk here, and so maybe you're hedging a little bit on the optimal –
 designation, if we anticipate risk and some uncertainty, why wouldn't we say that our confidence level is medium rather than optimal? What goes into your thinking in making that judgment? So the instructions that I try to communicate with my team is, if it is possible for you to provide an optimal level of confidence estimate to the council, I want you to do that. So it's just a matter of your effort. I want you to expend that effort and provide that estimate.
 Sometimes we can't, no matter how much we do in the office, we can't predict what the bid results are going to be. And typically, in a smaller project like this, with the soil conditions and the methodology we've taken, there's a greater variation in the way the contractors will bid. And depending on who bids and what they provide will ultimately determine whether or not we've met that standard which we've committed to. One of the things that...
 We try to do, though, is always expend the effort to give the best estimates to the council that we can. Any public testimony on this item? I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Those to second rating? Item 94, authorize a contract and provide payment for the construction of the Mount Tabor adjustments project at an estimated cost of $4,800,000. Second rating, roll call.
 I know Commissioner Fish is going to go through what we're doing here. I really appreciate the public input on this and also your leadership. Fish? Right back at you, Commissioner Fritz. This is a partnership between the Parks Bureau and the Water Bureau, and it's an honor to work with you on this. My vote today allows the Bureau to take a necessary step to meet a regulatory deadline.
 It does not signal a decision about the merits of the land use process currently pending before the Historic Landmarks Commission. When and if the Landmarks Commission's decision is appealed to the council,
 I will base my decision on the testimony and evidence in the record at that time. Additionally, it's important to note that the contract that results from this procurement will not come back to council for approval until the land use process is resolved at the city level. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Item 95, authorize a competitive solicitation for operations assistance services for Portland Streetcar.
 Colleagues, Portland Streetcar is owned by the City of Portland and operated in partnership with TriMet and an operations assistance provider, which since 2001 has been Portland Streetcar, Inc., or PSI.
 That contract with PSI will expire in June 2015. PBOT is seeking council approval for a competitive bid process for operations assistance services. When the existing contract began, Portland Street Gar was a startup and is going to be a fully operating service within the regional transit system. PBOT will integrate 2014 audit recommendations into the solicitation, including upgrading performance measures, greater financial transparency, and focus on operations success. Catherine, would you care to elaborate? Thank you.
 Thank you. This is the first step in a multi-step procurement process. Kathy, please restate your name. I'm sorry. I'm Catherine Levine from Portland Transportation. This is the first step in a multi-step procurement process. So it is council authorization to put out a request for proposals.
 Ultimately, it would be a goods and services contract, and the process, as I understand it, would be a formal sealed proposal back through procurement.
 It's my understanding that once the procurement process has occurred and there's been evaluation and there's a recommendation, that the Bureau and procurement will return to Council with a report and a recommendation to contract. So this is not the only time that you would see this. You would see this after the evaluation as well.
 We're looking at an RFP for eight major service areas. This is to provide operations assistance to Portland Streetcar. And as the commissioner noted, Streetcar is owned and operated by the city of Portland. We are in partnership with TriMed that provides the trained staff, including operators and mechanics. And we currently have a Portland Streetcar, Inc. is contracted as our operation assistance provider area.
 That contract, which we've had since 2001, expires in 2015. This solicitation would be to request operation assistance services. The eight areas we're looking at are customer service and communications, sponsorship and marketing, leadership and private sector engagement, service planning and scenario development, best practice and recommendations for performance measure improvements,
 annual performance reporting and overseeing implementation of our master agreement between the city of Portland and try Matt. So these assistant services, as I said, are regarded by the city attorney's office as a goods and services procurement. But we are using an RFP process, which is very similar to a PTE process.
 Catherine, I believe there's an emergency clause in this item, so I know that Mr. Walsh will ask why that is. Could you elaborate or explain that? I know it's only January, but the contract expires at the end of June, so we're looking for council approval to move forward with the RFP as soon as it's finalized so we can have sufficient time to advertise, solicit proposals, work through an evaluation and negotiation process, and return to council this summer. Thank you.
 Could you tell us what kind of outreach you're doing? Obviously, this is a fairly specialized kind of operations. How are you helping to look for other potential bidders? Yes.
 So in addition to the publication, which I understand is very general in nature, that happens standard, we would be looking at the transit industry itself, where we would find most proposers. So the American Public Transit Association, APTA, maintains a biweekly newsletter as well as a website. There are certainly publications of RFPs from across the country there.
 The other location is called transittalent.com. We've found that site to be particularly useful when we're seeking applicants for transit jobs at Portland Streetcar, but that website also posts and advertises to the transit community requests for proposals. And is there any specific outreach to minority communities? Yes.
 I have not looked into any particularly certified areas beyond what we would normally do in Portland, looking through AWAMI and other organizations to make people aware of the contract. We found in parks that doing some targeted outreach has been very helpful. Okay. So this is a proposal to solicit bids or proposals for the operations of the streetcar.
 currently provided by portland streetcar inc is that correct there's tremendous overlap but there are differences the original contract included a capital development element um and and this system has really grown into an operating system within the regional transit system and so our focus is very much on operations assistance which is currently being performed we do obtain that service from portland streetcar inc
 So they would probably be proposing to continue to provide such assistance? I would expect that they will be one of the proposers, yes. Commissioner Novick, the impact statement says all funds for operational assistance will be budgeted in PBOT's FY15-16 budget. Does that mean that you do not intend to seek general fund support for this?
 We intend to seek general fund support for PBOT operations in general. We do not intend to specifically seek general fund support for streetcar operations. So we can have that conversation further when the request comes. Thank you. Mr. Walsh, I just got a text from your wife wondering why you were testifying again on this matter. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh, and I do have egg on my face.
 two bites out of the apple. It's always nice, except when you have scrambled eggs all over your face. Apparently what happened was when I hit 88, the documentation for 95 came up. I think that's what happened. I don't have access to a computer, so I'm not really sure. Our concern remains the same, with the exception that it's not under consent to gender, which is for the viewing audience.
 It's a block of actions taken by the council so they don't have to bother voting on each one of them and taking up time. The council considers them so routine that there's no controversy involved, and they push it through a consent agenda. It's an irritant to individuals for justice. We don't like consent agenda either here or at the county. The county is even worse.
 So when we talk about this item, what we're concerned about is it seems to us that with all the employees that we have and all the intelligence and brightness that we have in the city, that we could get a select group to say, how are we doing on this item? You know, if the Department of Transportation wants to do the streetcars, right?
 you could get a group together within the Department of Transportation and say, take a look at what we're doing and tell us what we're doing wrong. To spend a million dollars, and that's what the figure is, is $500 million. And although I had the number wrong as far as the item, this number comes from your own paperwork. $500,000 is a low figure, a million.
 And this is administrative. This is not nails and hammers. This is administrative. You're going out to a contractor and say, tell us how we're doing, and we're going to pay you up to a million dollars. That's insanity to the citizens listening to this stuff. You have enough employees, you know, to do a quality control. You know, the auditor was very, very upset.
 straightforward of what your problems were. It doesn't seem to be confusion on the problems that we're having. It's the acknowledgment of them. I mean, that's what the auditor is saying. You're not even acknowledging. You're screwing around with the figures to make yourself look good. Well, that's a disaster. She doesn't go that far. But she says it's...
 what 19 over what the figures actually say so that's our objection we don't like you spending money on administrative stuff when we we see that there are people in this city that are bright enough to give you a quality control thank you mr walsh any further press public testimony
 Kyla, please call the roll. Let me just ask a question, though. That does beg the question, why are we contracting out rather than taking over the operations ourselves? Well, I mean, PSI has performed certain functions which we don't normally perform ourselves, such as marketing sponsorships for cars, streetcar stops, and big-belly trash cans.
 And PSI's board provides the private sector with direct input into operating and service recommendations, as well as review of current financials and long-term planning. And the private sector actually has significant investment in Streetcar through LIDs, for example. And to me, the marketing of sponsorships is particularly important, and it is something that we don't normally do ourselves. Catherine, is there anything you'd care to add? No.
 i think that the the private sector engagement has been very important and it's not unlike what we have at my understanding of what we have at the pittick mansion for example where there's a 501 c3 actively engaging with the community carrying out some responsibilities um under city staff we don't pay them and that they're run by a board i mean a foundation
 Right, but they raise money from the city-owned asset. Right, but we don't pay them to do so. Right. So that's... We do write them up. We invest heavily on the capital side, but your point's well made. Right. We subsidize our operations. And what's the consideration of asking TriMet to take over the operations? TriMet has been a terrific funding partner and through the master agreement has
 stated and contracted that as the system develops, it will take over more and more of the operating expenses. However, they have not expressed interest in owning or solely operating the system. They are interested in being a funding partner to us. We have asked them that. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Prelick, please call the roll.
 I do support the emergency in this case because we obviously, if the current contract expires in June, at the end of June, that's not a lot of time to do something like this. I hope though we are going to have a very robust outreach process and of course the new contract will come back to council and I'm going to be very interested in that. Aye. Bish? Aye.
 Novick. Aye. Thank you, Catherine. Thank you. I'm sorry. Carla, is there anything that we have left to deal with? I think not. I just want to check. I think that's it. We are adjourned. Thanks for your help.